Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3051 
Project Name 
West Delta Water Conservation and Irrigation Rehabilitation 
Project 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Irrigation and drainage (90%);Water supply (10%) 
Project ID 
P087970 
Borrower(s) 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation (MWRI) 
Government of Egypt 
Egypt, Arab Republic of 
 
Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation (MWRI) 
Corniche El Nil, Giza 12666 
Giza 
Egypt, Arab Republic of 
Tel: 20 2 544-9747 
 
abuzeid@mwri.gov.eg 
Environment Category 
[X] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
May 7, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 1, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
June 21, 2007 
Country and Sector Background 
 
To compensate for the loss of agricultural land in the Delta, and to provide opportunities 
to generate new jobs, increase production and widen the development base, the Government of 
Egypt (GOE) has supported commercial farmers in reclaiming desert lands since the late 1960s. 
In this context, the GOE has identified an area of about 255,000 feddans (equivalent to 107,000 
ha), located approximately 60 kilometers north of Cairo to the West of the Nile Delta, which has 
experienced noticeable agricultural growth through exploitation of groundwater resources. 
Today, this area is a flourishing agricultural economy estimated between $300 million to half 
billion dollars annually, serving both domestic and export markets in the European Union and 
elsewhere.   
 
Moreover, the area is now home to 500,000 people and provides about 250,000 jobs in 
the agriculture sector alone.  However, with the rapid development over the past few years, there 
has been an excessive depletion of the groundwater reserves.  With about 47% of the total 
255,000 feddans under cultivation, water extraction by the year 2000 reached 870 million m
3
annually, or an increase of 36.2% in just over a decade.  Groundwater is quickly depleting with a 
commensurate effect on overall water quality.   
 
To resolve this problem, the Government has been reviewing options to replace 
groundwater with surface water irrigation.  The goal is to minimize if not totally halt the 
Page  2
2
depletion of the groundwater resource.  To achieve this goal, the GOE wishes to implement a 
surface water conveyance system and to introduce important reforms in the sector, particularly 
full cost recovery tariffs and volumetric pricing.  Such reforms are part of the Government’s own 
Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) Action Plan developed in 2005 to ensure 
correct incentives to conserve and utilize water more efficiently
1
.
Project Objectives 
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the livelihood and increase the income of 
people in the Project Area through: (i) mitigating further environmental degradation caused by 
excessive drawdown of the groundwater resources; and (ii) establishing a framework for 
financial sustainability of irrigation infrastructure in the use of water resources. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
:
Design, Construction and Operation of Surface Water System and Connection Program
Design, construction and operation of a surface water irrigation system and connection program 
within the Project Area, taking into consideration the specific environment and social 
requirements as stated in the ESMP and the RPF. 
Part 2
:
Market-driven Technical Support to Small and Medium Scale Farmers
Providing market-driven technical support to small and medium scale farmers in the Project Area 
to increase their market share, at the national and international level. 
Part 3
:
Institutional Development and Capacity Building
(a) 
Institutional development and capacity building of the Regulatory Office to ensure 
effective economic regulatory oversight and equitable treatment of interests between 
farmers and the Private Operator. 
(b) 
Supporting the operational capacity of the PMU to assist it in the implementation of the 
Project, the carrying out of the ESMP and the RFP and the monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project. 
(c) 
Capacity building of Project Area’s the water user council to enhance its capacity to 
oversee the relationship between farmers regarding usage of surface and ground water 
resources
.
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The World Bank’s policy approach to GOE’s IWRM Action Plan includes the need to 
reduce subsidies in the irrigation sector and for making the sector financially sustainable. The 
Bank Strategy for Egypt places emphasis in areas where the Bank can provide critical expertise 
in order to implement the GOE strategies (i.e., the PPP for the West Delta Water Conservation 
and Irrigation Rehabilitation Project). 
 
1
The Government is implementing cost recovery of O&M in old lands and full cost recovery in new lands. The 
project area is considered new lands; therefore full cost recovery policy will apply. 
Page  3
3
Involving the private sector in infrastructure in general, poses challenges to GOE that the 
Bank can address through its extensive experience in this area worldwide, especially in water 
supply infrastructure, energy, and telecommunications. In irrigation, private participation adds 
additional dimensions to this challenge, given: (i) the relative void of successful transaction 
experience in this sector; and (ii) the added risks perceived in running a private irrigation system 
on a commercial/full cost recovery basis.  To-date there are few examples of irrigation projects 
of the magnitude being considered in the West Delta where the private sector has taken up a 
substantial share of the related risks.  
 
Description 
 
The proposed project will finance the design and construction of a surface water 
conveyance and distribution system to the West Delta area, based on irrigation services 
beneficiaries want and are willing to pay for.   The investment will be implemented through a 
Design-Build-Operate PPP where the actual design and configuration of the system will be 
finalized through a subscription of participating farmers in the area.  The Project will be 
implemented on the principle of full cost recovery based on volumetric tariffs.  Responsibility 
for operations, maintenance and loan amortization will be assigned to private operator, who will 
be selected through a competitive bidding process.    
 
The transaction design has been finalized with the support of various donor 
organizations, most notably PPIAF, the Dutch Government and AFD.  The chosen transaction 
design represents a unique, and relatively unexplored opportunity for the MNA Region to 
introduce reforms in the irrigation sector and to involve the participation of a private operator in 
taking up a good portion of the risk associated with construction, financing and operation of an 
irrigation infrastructure operated on 
the a :”utility” model.  The Project will finance the design 
and construction of a surface water conveyance and distribution system to the West Delta area so 
that these commercial farmers can purchase surface water to compensate for the fast dwindling 
groundwater resources.  Payments will be based on volumetric pricing, so that there is an 
incentive to conserve water and maximize returns per cubic meter of water purchased. In the 
chosen Design-Build-Operate (DBO) option, the responsibility for operations, maintenance and 
loan amortization will be assigned to private operator.  The cost of the investment component is 
estimated at $205 million, of which about $145 million will be financed by IBRD.   
Collaboration arrangements with ADD and the Dutch government have been arranged to 
participate both in the financing of the investment component as well as to fund two other 
technical assistance components. 
 
The Project will consist of three components in total for an estimated cost of US$213 million: 
 
·
Component No. 1
:
Will involve an investment loan to finance works for the final design 
and construction of a surface water conveyance and distribution system to the West Delta 
area and to connect between 25,200 ha and 37,800 ha of participating farms.  Initial 
design work was carried out during the technical preparation studies which were based on 
a
“demand-driven approach to planning” where the growers’ willingness to connect and 
pay guided the technical design options with commensurate tariffs.  In addition, a piped 
system was chosen as the preferred option given it several advantages if offers over open 
channel systems, particularly with regard to efficient water resource use and lower 
Page  4
4
environmental and social safeguards risks.  The final design will be completed by the 
private operator that will be contracted to construct and operate the system on a long term 
basis. (US$205 million, estimate based on technical studies carried out during project 
preparation).  
 
·
Component No. 2
:
Agricultural Marketing/Logistics Technical Assistance to small and 
medium scale farmers use surface water (US$2 million). This component will be initially 
funded through donor grants by AFD and will provide technical assistance (TA) to small 
and medium growers, traders, food processors, to increase West Delta products (fresh or 
processed) market share on national and international markets. Following a successful 
evaluation of the first donor phase activity which is funded by grants above, loan 
facilitation could be provided directly to participating farmers, if need be.    
 
·
Component No. 3
:
Support for Institutional Development and Capacity Building of 
Project Management Unit, Regulatory Office and Water User Organization (US$6 
million)
.
This component will be funded through donor grants by the Government of the 
Netherlands and will support capacity building activities to include: (i) strengthening the 
PMU and the contract management activities that will oversee contractual matter between 
the Government and the private operators on all aspects of the implementation phases, 
including environmental and social safeguard compliance during the implementation of 
the project inclusive of groundwater monitoring; (ii) capacity building of economic 
regulatory office to ensure effective regulatory oversight and equitable treatment of 
interests between the farmers and the private operator; and (iii) capacity building of the 
water user association that will be formed to oversee the relationship between farmers 
vis-
à-vis entitlements and usage of the surface and ground water resources. Given the 
unique nature of the PPP transaction arrangement the TA will also provide for oversight 
supervisory engineers and technical audits of technical milestones achieved.   
 
Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Private Operator/Participating Farmers 
30 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
145 
FOREIGN SOURCES  
38 
 Total 
213 
 
Implementation 
 
Overall responsibility for implementation of the Project will be provided by the Minister 
of MWRI and managed on a day-to-day basis by a Project Management Unit (PMU) which has 
already been established.  Since the project will be implemented using a DBO contract with the 
private sector, the establishment of a Regulatory Office will also be necessary.  In addition, an 
Independent Panel of Experts will be set up as needed to serve as an intermediate mechanism for 
handling disputes and conflict resolution.    
 
Page  5
5
Both the PMU and the Regulatory Office will be under the jurisdiction of MWRI. The PMU will 
include the financial management and disbursement functions and will supervise the contractual 
arrangements for the initial construction and expansion of the irrigation system.  In addition, it 
will oversee the implementation of the technical assistance components of the Project.  
Representatives of the PMU have already been designated by MWRI and have been involved 
throughout the preparation discussions.   
 
A
Water User Council has also been established as an independent farmers’ organization 
to take active part in the project preparation and ultimately during implementation, to monitor 
the relationships and potential conflicts between farmers on such matters as water entitlements, 
usage, alternating hours of irrigation, etc. The Council will also monitor groundwater pumping in 
the area along with the more formal program that will be implemented by PMU within MWRI.   
 
The Regulatory Office will provide traditional economic regulatory functions for rate 
adjustments, tariff rebasing and will oversee the contractual commitments of the operator with 
regard to the prescribed service standards. As indicated, specialists would be recruited when 
warranted to serve in the Independent Panel of Experts to resolve specific disputed prior to 
formal arbitration in case conflicts arise between the private operator and farmers.  
 
Sustainability 
 
The West Delta Water Conservation and Irrigation Rehabilitation Project will directly 
address two important issues related to sustainability: (i) cost recovery; and (ii) continued 
groundwater degradation and greater efficiency in irrigation.  Both will be mainstreamed in the 
project using a PPP with clear contractual responsibilities between the MWRI and the private 
operator, and between the private operator and the farmer community.  In this context, MWRI 
will make financing to the project through the proposed loan from the World Bank.  The private 
operator will pay a concession fee to the MWRI equal or in excess to the government’s debt 
service commitment to the Bank.  The farmers in turn, will pay an irrigation service fee to the 
private operator in order to operate and maintain the surface irrigation system and to repay the 
capital investments made by it and the Government.  The farmer community is expected to 
participate during operation and maintenance through the Water User Council.  Individual farms 
and water user associations will be represented on this Council. 
 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The proposed project design has benefited from some broad lessons learned from: (i) 
successful experience in the water supply and sanitation (WSS) sector, (ii) a “participatory 
approach” to system planning and design, and (iii) the involvement of private sector and users in 
all stages of the project preparation.  In addition, lessons gained from the design of comparable 
Bank financed projects are also being used, including the Provincial and Peri-Urban Water and 
Sanitation Project that features DBO/DBL contracts to construct and operate and maintain 
provincial water town systems in Cambodia; and the LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project 
APL2 that features DBL contract in provincial towns in Philippines.   
 
Page  6
6
Lessons in transaction design are also taken from the Guardane Private Irrigation Project in 
Morocco.  Relevant lessons include: (i) various project related risks should be allocated to the 
party (i.e., public or private) that is more able to handle them; (ii) contract management capacity 
at the public sector usually needs strengthening for negotiating, overseeing and monitoring 
contracts with the private sector. 
 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
The West Delta project is rated a Category A project in accordance with the 
Environmental Assessment Policy (OP 4.01) of the World Bank because of the potential scale of 
impacts in terms of water quantity, water quality, and water access issues; and the potential 
corporate risk posed to the Bank by the diversion of water from the Nile. 
 
The main issues raised and discussed in the ESIA/ESMP included: (i) the withdrawal of 
water from the Nile system at the expense of uses outside the project area; (ii) the continuing 
groundwater use in conjunction with surface water; and (iii) induced regional development as a 
result of the intensification of agriculture. The impacts resulting from these issues have been 
assessed and mitigation measures posed which should ensure that the negative impacts are 
mitigated effectively. In effect, the project should generate positive environmental benefits in 
terms of groundwater recharge, and more effective water management through the realization of 
effective cost savings in water use.   
 
The following policies will be triggered: Environmental Assessment (4.01), Involuntary 
Resettlement (OP 4.12), Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11), International Waterways 
(OP7.50) and Pest Management (OP 4.09). The safeguard issues and impacts, and the mitigation 
measures proposed for each policy through the proposed project are summarized below:  
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(OP
/BP
/GP
4.01) 
[X] 
[  ] 
Natural Habitats
(OP
/BP
4.04) 
[  ] 
[X] 
Pest Management
(OP 4.09) 
[X] 
[  ] 
Physical Cultural Resources 
(OP/BP 4.11) 
[X] 
[  ] 
Involuntary Resettlement
(OP
/BP
4.12) 
[X] 
[  ] 
Indigenous Peoples
(OD 4.20
)
[
]
[X] 
Forests
(OP
/BP
4.36) 
[  ] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams
(OP
/BP
4.37) 
[  ] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas
(OP
/BP
/GP
7.60)** 
By supporting the 
proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final 
determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas 
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways
(OP
/BP
/GP 7.50) 
[X] 
[  ] 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
A.  Project Implementation Plan 
B.  Bank Staff Assessments 
-
Project Identification documents 
Page  7
7
-
ISDS and PID - July 2004 
-
Draft PAD - June 2005 
-
DBO Prequalification Documents 
–
January 2007 
-
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet - Appraisal Stage – InfoShop Disclosure-  
-
Project Concept Note presented to Review Meeting – June 26 2004 
-
West Delta Water Conservation and Irrigation Project DRAINFRAME I final report, June 
2005 
-
PPIAF Report: Conceptual Framework and Transaction Model for a Public-Private 
Partnership in Irrigation in the West Delta, Egypt. March 2005. 
-
Environmental and Social Management Framework - Executive Summary – February 21, 
2007 
-
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet – Appraisal Stage – Final –May 7, 2007 
-
Disclosure o f Environmental Assessment – Exec Summary Feb 21, 2007 
-
Environmental and Social Management Framework  
-
Environmental and Social Management Framework - Clearance from MNSSD-QAT –  
 
Mission Reports: 
 
-
Appraisal and Negotiation Mission SMO  
-
Pre-Appraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report -  
-
Environmental Mission Back-to-Office Report,  
-
Phase II Mission Back-to-Office Report, May 2005 
 
C.  Other 
-
Final Design prepared by the Private Operator after wining the DBO contract  
-
Phase II West Delta Feasibility Studies - June 30, 2005  
-
Letter of H.E. Dr. Mahmood Abu Zeid, Minister of MWRI Supporting the Request for 
PPIAF Assessment – May 2004. 
-
Consultations and Survey Report, Background Paper for PPIAF Report – November 2004. 
-
Ground Water Survey Report, Background Paper for PPIAF Report – November 2004. 
-
Technical Options Report, Background Paper for PPIAF Report – November 2004. 
-
Financial Analysis and Financial Projections, Background Paper for PPIAF Report 
November 2004. 
-
Institutional Options and Transaction Model for the Public-Private Partnership, Background 
Paper for PPIAF Report – November 2004. 
-
Draft Willingness to Connect Agreement, Background Paper for PPIAF Report – 
November 2004. 
-
Pre-Feasibility Study, Demand and technical studies to assess options for Public Private 
Partnerships for project implementation Draft Summary version February 26, 2004 
-
West Delta Water Conservation and Irrigation Project Pre-Feasibility, prepared by Eng. 
Farouk Shaheen (Technical Studies) and Magdi Khalifa , PhD (Preliminary Demand 
Assessment), December 2003. 
Page  8
8
Contact point 
 
Contact: Aldo Baietti 
Title: Sr Financial Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-2750 
Email: Abaietti@worldbank.org 
 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
