Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/07/2007 
Report No.:  AC2780
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Egypt, Arab Republic of 
Project ID:  P087970 
Project Name:  West Delta Water Conservation and Irrigation Rehabilitation Project 
Task Team Leader:  Aldo Baietti 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 1, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: June 21, 2007 
Managing Unit:  MNSSD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Irrigation and drainage (90%);Water supply (10%) 
Theme:  Water resource management (P);Infrastructure services for private sector 
development (P);Participation and civic engagement (S);Rural services and infrastructure 
(S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
145.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED) 
38.00 
 Local 
Farmer 
Organizations 
30.00
68.00 
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the livelihood and increase the income of 
people in the Project Area through: (i) mitigating further environmental degradation 
caused by excessive drawdown of the groundwater resources; and (ii) establishing a 
framework for financial sustainability of irrigation infrastructure in the use of water 
resources.  
 
To achieve the above development objective, the project design includes three 
intermediate performance benchmarks: (i) An operational and financially sustainable 
surface water supply system covering an area in the range of 25,200 ha to 37,800 ha as 
part of a concession area covering up to 79,800 ha; (ii) farming community in the area 
participated in the determination of system design options based on their willingness and 
capacity to pay for the cost of service; (iii) institutional arrangements to ensure successful 
implementation of project which will guide relationships between the GOE and the 
private operator, the private operator vis-?-vis the farmers and relationships between 
farmers in the area. Institutional arrangements (i.e. contract management procedures, 
regulatory arrangements, and user associations) would be established and working 
Page  2
according to design.  Progress toward achieving the project development objective 
performance benchmarks will be measured against milestones.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Project covers an area that is between 25,200 ha and 37,800 ha in the West Delta. By 
2010 (when the project is operational) the abstraction from the Nile to serve the project 
area is expected to range between 300 mcm/year and 450 mcm/year, respectively. The 
water extracted from the Nile to serve the farms will be more than compensated by loss 
of water usage because of rural-urban land conversion, and water savings from irrigation 
improvement initiatives of the GOE, as follows:  
 
&#61607; 
conservatively an annual loss of 11,000 ha. (NWRP 2005) each year an 
incremental amount of 225 mcm will become available, which would within 2 years 
compensate for the water required for WDWCIRP. If more recent urbanization figures 
are used, the required water for the project will be saved from land conversion within one 
year.  
 
&#61607; 
280 mcm by the year 2010 from the replication of water saving and water 
efficiency efforts presently being piloted under the World Bank and KfW-financed 
Irrigation Improvement Project in about a third of the Nile delta.  
 
The project?s total investment cost for Component No. 1 is US$205 million, of which a 
World Bank loan will finance US$145 million, with the remainder sourced from the 
farmers and the private operator, and donor funding.  In addition, an additional US$8 
million will be made available from bilateral donor grants for Components  2 and 3.  
 
The components are summarized as follows:  
 
Part 1: Design, Construction and Operation of Surface Water System and Connection 
Program  
 
Design, construction and operation of a surface water irrigation system and connection 
program within the Project Area, taking into consideration the specific environment and 
social requirements as stated in the ESMP and the RPF.  
 
Part 2: Market-driven Technical Support to Small and Medium Scale Farmers  
 
Providing market-driven technical support to small and medium scale farmers in the 
Project Area to increase their market share, at the national and international level.  
 
Part 3: Institutional Development and Capacity Building  
 
(a) 
Institutional development and capacity building of the Regulatory Office to 
ensure effective economic regulatory oversight and equitable treatment of interests 
between farmers and the Private Operator.  
 
(b) 
Supporting the operational capacity of the PMU to assist it in the implementation 
of the Project, the carrying out of the ESMP and the RFP and the monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project.  
 
(c) 
Capacity building of Project Area?s the water user council to enhance its capacity 
to oversee the relationship between farmers regarding usage of surface and ground water 
resources.   
 
Page  3
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project?s service area is about 79,800 ha, located in the West Delta area at both sides 
of the Cairo-Alexandria road, between km 45 and km 80, including Wadi El Faragh and 
Dina farms.  Farmers in this area (currently over-using groundwater) are located in three 
zones: East and West Desert Road (145.631 feddans), Kata  (8.724 feddans), and Menouf 
and Khatatba (100.645 feddans) zones. The area is administered by 4 governorates: 
Cairo, Menufiya, Beheiyra and Alexandria. The project absorbs its ownerships, labor and 
population through these governorates.  Most of the job opportunities are absorbed 
through Menufiya, Beheira and Sharkiya. The majority of skilled labor migrates from 
Cairo and Alexandria, and unskilled labor from Menufiya, Beheiyra and Sharkiya.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Knut Opsal (MNSSD) 
Ms Kanta K. Rigaud (MNSSD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The West Delta Project is rated a Category A project in accordance with the 
Environmental Assessment Policy (OP 4.01) of the World Bank because of the potential 
scale of impacts in terms of water quantity, water quality, and water access issues; and 
the potential corporate risk posed to the Bank by the diversion of water from the Nile. 
The main issues raised and discussed in the overall Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) 
included: (i) the withdrawal of water from the Nile system at the expense of uses outside 
the project area; (ii) the continuing groundwater use in conjunction with surface water; 
and (iii) induced regional development as a result of the intensification of agriculture. 
The impacts resulting from these issues have been assessed and mitigation measures 
posed which should ensure that the negative impacts are mitigated effectively. In effect, 
the project should generate positive environmental benefits in terms of groundwater 
recharge, and more effective water management through the realization of effective cost 
savings in water use.  
Page  4
On the basis of the screening criteria of the World Bank safeguard polices, the following 
policies will be triggered: Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12), Physical Cultural 
Resources (OP 4.11), International Waterways (OP7.50) and Pest Management (OP 
4.09). The safeguard issues and impacts, and the mitigation measures proposed for each 
policy through the proposed project are summarized below:  
 
&#61607; 
The Pest Management Policy (OP 4.09) is triggered in as far the project 
triggers an increase in cultivated area and hence an increase in the application of 
pesticides, insecticides and herbicides in absolute terms. The use of fertilizers will 
equally grow. The farmers in the area are export oriented and are producing under the 
Euro-GAP protocol. This organization promotes integrated pest management and 
monitors the producers which they have certified.  
 
&#61607; 
The Physical Cultural Resources Policy (OP 4.11) is triggered for 
precautionary reasons. For the scale of works envisaged under the project, the Egyptian 
Law always requires a number of procedures to be followed before and during 
construction, in order to obtain and maintain clearance to proceed. The Supreme Council 
of Antiquities is responsible for the protection and conservation of Cultural Properties 
and necessary provisions will be part of the DBO contract to cover archaeological 
surveys and appropriate chance finds procedures.  
 
&#61607; 
The Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) is triggered and the impacts 
include (i) changes in hydrology of the Rosetta branch may have adverse impacts on 
settlements on the banks of the canal; and (ii) construction and maintenance of buried 
pipelines and associated works (e.g., pump stations and roads serving the project.  The 
scale of involuntary expropriation is expected to be limited. There may be project 
affected people along the Rosetta Branch because of water level rise. However, their 
numbers, if at all, likely are small because the hydrological changes of the river due to the 
project are expected to be small. A river hydrological study has to provide the decisive 
answers. Temporary and permanent expropriation and rights-of-way will be required for 
the construction and maintenance of the buried pipeline system in the project area itself. 
A
Resettlement Policy Framework for the project has been prepared which deals with the 
overall resettlement principles to be addressed in the resettlement plans, if any.  
 
&#61607; 
The International Waterways Policy (OP 7.50) is triggered in as far the 
West Delta project will have an annual abstraction from the Nile River, which is shared 
by 10 riparian countries. By 2010 (when the project is operational) the abstraction from 
the Nile to serve the project area is expected to range between 300 mcm/year (for 25,200 
ha) and 450 mcm/year (for 37,800 ha).  The water extracted from the Nile to serve the 
farms will be more than compensated by loss of water usage because of rural-urban land 
conversion, and water savings from irrigation improvement initiatives of the GOE.   
 
Page  5
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The project will have indirect environmental and social impacts which include, among 
others: increasing land prices, a potentially significant increase in labor opportunities in 
agriculture (during the operational phase the project); a potential increase of spin-off 
effects for labor in construction, services and processing; and a potential change in 
laborers? preferences to commute to or reside in the project area.  
 
An explicit social policy for settlements on new lands may well be the most important 
single factor in the success of the project with respect to creating a sustainable social 
environment. To facilitate this process the borrower will closely monitor the socio-
economic development as the project becomes operational. The social section of DRI has 
experience with such monitoring program, as they already did the baseline study during 
the DRAINFRAME study. The results of this program will be submitted to the Land Use 
Planning Authority, who is responsible for the integrated socio-economic development of 
the rural areas.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Two aspects which will help avoid and minimize impacts. First, the preparation work did 
consider the technical option of implementing a project encompassing the entire 255,000 
feddan (100,000 ha) area in the West Delta, but this was rejected for a number of reasons, 
including: (i) the technical constraints of implementing a project of a much larger scope 
given the need to complete construction in the shortest period possible such that the loan 
could be amortized over 18 years in order to render tariffs affordable; (ii) the feasibility 
of a private operator taking on the entire concession area in an already challenging 
project concept; (iii) the intention to have a smaller pilot effort that can be tried and 
successfully managed prior to replication to other areas; and (iv) practical limitations on 
debt absorption capacity for the GOE. The current scale of operations will allow the 
environmental and social safeguards to be addressed comprehensively and will serve as 
an important pilot.  
 
Second, the preliminary technical alternatives considered included the use of piped 
system or an open channel for water conveyance. In addition, water management 
alternatives included the concepts of conjunctive use or surface water irrigation only. For 
both these sets of alternatives, final design options will be left to the private operator 
based on their own assessment of risks and cost effectiveness? and environmental and 
social considerations will be important considerations in the final decision making.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
To address the safeguard policy issues above, the borrower has designed and instituted 
the following mitigation measures:  
 
Page  6
&#61607; 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) - The borrower has carried out a 
full ESIA/ESMP with broad stakeholder consultations which follows on from the Drain 
frame 1 and 2 studies conducted by government and consultants over the past two years.  
 
&#61607; 
Pest Management Policy (OP 4.09) - Integrated Pest Management (IPM) 
has been included as a mitigation measure to protect agricultural production and 
groundwater quality, and forms part of the sustainable groundwater management plan. 
The main objective is to spread the good practices of most of the farmers to those who 
are lagging behind in this regard.  
 
&#61607; 
Physical Cultural Resources Policy (OP 4.11) - The Supreme Council of 
Antiquities is the Authority which applies Law 117, which if applied correctly, would 
provide sufficient safeguard for the preservation of physical cultural resources. Clause 25 
of the MWRI's general contract specifications is in agreement with Law 117. It will be 
part of the DBO contract and will include provisions for archaeological surveys and 
appropriate chance find procedures.  
 
&#61607; 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) - Potential impacts of increased water 
levels of the Rosetta Branch will be examined in a special study by the National Research 
Institute (NRI). For the temporary and permanent expropriation and rights-of-way in the 
project area, the corridors have not yet been designed, so the extent and location of the 
impact cannot be given. The DBO contractor will optimize his design to avoid and 
minimize the need for expropriation. Together with the final design the DBO contractor 
will present site-specific resettlement plans, in compliance with Egyptian Law and World 
Bank requirements, in which all compensations for involuntary resettlements are 
arranged for. A Resettlement Policy Framework for the project has been prepared which 
deals with the overall resettlement principles to be addressed in the resettlement plans, if 
any.  
 
&#61607; 
International Waterways Policy (OP 7.50) - The Nile riparian countries 
have formed the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) for enhanced collaborative development and 
management of the Nile River for the benefit of all.  The Nile Council of Ministers (Nile-
COM) acts as the body governing the activities under the NBI.The West Delta project is 
one of a series of NBI projects which the Nile-COM has approved for project preparation 
under the umbrella of the NBI. The Government of Egypt had developed a project profile 
for the West Delta Project that summarizes the key components and identifies the 
potential water related impacts.  This project profile has been shared with the riparian 
countries under an agreed procedure thus meeting the requirements of the Bank's policy 
on international waterways (OP 7.50).  
 
The final responsibility for implementation of the ESMP lies with the Ministry of Water 
Resources and Irrigation (MWRI). The preliminary project set-up indicates that those 
parts of the ESMP that are to be implemented by the DBO contractor will be supervised 
by the Project Management Unit/Regulatory Office. This unit deals with all contractual 
matters of the project. The Project Management Unit monitors the other plan components 
and takes the proper measures in case of non compliance. The PMU will report progress 
Page  7
made to the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency, the Supreme Council of 
Antiquities, and to the World Bank.  
 
MWRI is mandated for water quality monitoring and management. Potential para-state 
partner agencies (e.g., for legislation enactment and enforcement) include the Ministry of 
State for Environmental Affairs; the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation; the 
Ministry of Local Development and Organization for Development of Egyptian Villages; 
the Ministry of Housing, Utilities and New Communities (mandated for urban sewerage 
and rural sanitation); and the West Delta Holding company.  These agencies, together 
with the irrigator-groups/federations? likely formed by the project (to support all of the 
project's afore-mentioned four components), have the capacity needed to address the 
safeguard policies triggered by the project, thus acting as regulators for the environmental 
and social externalities of the proposed PPP.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation conducted a series of consultations with 
stakeholders in 2005 and 2006 as the basis for generation of issues, discussions, and 
identifying the drivers of change, including:  
 
&#61607; 
February 26 and April 5, 2005: A series of consultations with stakeholders 
(e.g., farmers, government officials, private sector, and environmental NGOs) took place;  
 
&#61607; 
21st of September 2006: additional consultations were held with groups of 
villagers and farmers;  
 
&#61607; 
November 16, 2006: Meeting with 3 water board members covering 
representative part of the project area;  
 
&#61607; 
September and October 2006:  The socio-economic survey was finalized 
following field study visits by the sociologist on the team to interview farmers, 
inhabitants of the region, and commuters about socio-economic conditions particular to 
the project.  
 
&#61607; 
April 22, 2007:  A final consultation was conducted with representatives 
of key stakeholders including the water users from within and outside the project area, 
press, NGO?s, key concerned governmental agencies.  
 
Key findings from the above consultations and interviews were included in the ESIA 
and RPF.  In addition, the Draft Executive Summary of the ESIA/EMP, as well as the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, have been disclosed on the Ministry?s web-site, the 
InfoShop, and through the Public Information Center for diversified dissemination.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/30/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/30/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/02/2007 
 
Page  8
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
05/02/2007  
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/30/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/30/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/02/2007 
 
Pest Management Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
N/A 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
N/A 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
N/A 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
No 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
N/A 
OP/BP 4.11 - Physical Cultural Resources 
 
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property? 
Yes 
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential 
adverse impacts on cultural property? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways 
 
Have the other riparians been notified of the project? 
Yes 
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification 
requirement, has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo 
Yes 
Page  9
to the RVP prepared and sent? 
Has the RVP approved such an exception? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Aldo Baietti 
05/07/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Dahlia Lotayef 
05/07/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Bachir Souhlal 
05/07/2007 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan 
 
Comments:   
