                                       Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: NCO00002221



                 NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                             (IBRD-74680)



                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$145 MILLION


                                        TO THE

                          ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                        FOR A

          WEST DELTA WATER CONSERVATION AND IRRIGATION

                          REHABILITATION PROJECT



                                      May 15, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective March 1, 2012)

                      Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound
                      Egyptian Pound 1.00 = US$ 0.166
                      US$ 1.00 = Egyptian Pounds 6.00

                               FISCAL YEAR

                             July 1   - June 30

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



Afd     Agence Française de Développement
BDs     Bidding Documents
BNWPP   Bank Netherlands Water Partnership Program
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DBO     Design-Build Operate
ESMPF   Environmental and Social Management Plan Framework
FM      Financial Management
GoE     Government of Egypt
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IWRM    Integrated Water Resource Management
JV      Joint Venture
MWRI    Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMU     Project Management Unit
PO      Private Operator
PPIAF   Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PPP     Public Private Partnership
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
TA      Technical Assistance
WUC     Water Users Council




                       Vice President: Inger Andersen
                    Country Director: A. David Craig
                      Sector Manager: Francis Ato Brown
                 Project Team Leader: Abdulhamid Azad
                  NCO Team Leader: Abdulhamid Azad
                                      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

         West Delta Water Conservation and Irrigation Rehabilitation Project



                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS



Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs



  1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
  2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation .......................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Bank Performance .............................................................................. 8
  4. Assessment of Borrower Performance........................................................................ 9
  5. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 10
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 11
  Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 13

  MAP IBRD 34113
                                        DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                               West Delta Water
                        Arab Republic of                                       Conservation and
Country:                                           Project Name:
                        Egypt                                                  Irrigation Rehabilitation
                                                                               Project
Project ID:             P087970                    L/C/TF Number(s):           IBRD-74680
NCO Date:               01/11/2012
                                                                               ARAB REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                        Borrower:
                                                                               EGYPT
Original Total
                        USD 145.00M                Disbursed Amount:           USD 0.00M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation
Co-financiers and Other External Partner: Agence Française de Développement.
Netherlands Government and Private Sector

B. Key Dates
                                                                                     Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/30/2004      Effectiveness:           07/08/2009              07/08/2009
Appraisal:             05/01/2007      Closing:                 06/30/2011              06/30/2011
Approval:              06/21/2007

C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                          Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                                  Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Unsatisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      2
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       1
Irrigation and drainage                                             97


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                               11
Infrastructure services for private sector development               22
Rural policies and institutions                                      22
Rural services and infrastructure                                    22
Water resource management                                            23

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At NCO                           At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          A. David Craig                       Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:            Francis Ato Brown                    Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan
Project Team Leader:       Abdulhamid Azad                      Aldo Baietti, Maher Abu Taleb
NCO Team Leader:           Abdulhamid Azad



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
No.                                 DO                        IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2007           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     11/27/2007           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     11/28/2007           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.00
  4     04/02/2008           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.00
                             Moderately                   Moderately
  5     12/12/2008                                                                        0.00
                            Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
 6      05/27/2009          Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                   0.00
 7      12/23/2009          Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                   0.00
 8      06/30/2010          Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                   0.00
 9      02/08/2011          Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                   0.00
 10     06/29/2011          Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                   0.00
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design

Country and Sector Background

1.      Almost all agriculture in Egypt takes place in some 25,000 km² (about 2.5% of
Egypt territory) of fertile soil in the Nile Valley and the Delta region. The Delta region
alone contributes about 80% of all cultivable land in the country. Growth around the
thousands of small villages poses a significant threat to the agricultural lands in the Nile
Delta. To compensate for the loss of agricultural land in the Delta, and to provide
opportunities to generate new jobs, increase production and widen the development base,
the Government of Egypt (GoE) has supported commercial farmers in reclaiming desert
lands since the late 1960s: the GoE identified an area of about 107,000 ha, located
approximately 60 km north of Cairo to the West of the Nile Delta, which has experienced
noticeable agricultural growth through exploitation of groundwater resources. Today, this
area is a flourishing agricultural economy estimated between US$300-500 million
annually, serving both domestic and export markets in the European Union and
elsewhere. Moreover, the area is now home to 500,000 people and provides about
250,000 jobs in the agriculture sector alone. This rapid development over the past few
years, has led to an excessive depletion of the groundwater reserves. Groundwater was
quickly depleting with a commensurate effect on overall water quality.

2.       To resolve this problem, the Government decided to supplement groundwater
with surface water irrigation in the West Delta region so as to minimize, if not totally
halt, the depletion of the groundwater resource. To achieve this goal, the GoE wanted to:
(i) implement a surface water conveyance system and (ii) introduce full cost recovery and
volumetric pricing through a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement in which the
private sector would be involved in the design, operation and part financing of the new
irrigation system. The concept of using the private sector as a partner through a PPP
arrangement was included as a specific action in the 2005 Egypt Integrated Water
Resources Management (IWRM) Action Plan, to address the needs of the West Delta
Area.

3.       Using funds from the Public-Private-Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF), the
Bank provided assistance to the GoE in analyzing and selecting a preferred option for a
PPP. The choice of the PPP model was governed by a number of considerations
including: (i) transferring where possible, some key risks associated with the project to
the private sector (commensurate with investment return expectations and the level of
financial commitment that could be reasonably expected from the private sector); (ii) the
Government’s objective of cost recovery and for the project to sustain itself financially
throughout its project life; (iii) mobilizing long-term financing in order to set affordable
tariffs; (iv) minimizing demand risk by linking the planning and construction scheduling
to actual operation; and (v) harnessing private sector capacity to design, construct and
operate efficiently. Based on these considerations, a Design-Build-Operate (DBO) option
with a combined capital contribution by the operator, the participating farmers and the
public sector was selected as the preferred transaction model.




                                             1
Rationale for Bank Involvement

4.      The World Bank was in a good position to: (i) support the GoE’s IWRM Action
Plan to reduce subsidies in the irrigation sector and for making the sector financially
sustainable; and (ii) support the Government’s policy to involve the private sector in the
provision of a long term solution. The Bank’s support to be provided through a new
project was offered in a context where such transactions were very innovative (i.e. high
risk and high reward) since private participation via PPPs had been very limited in the
field of irrigation in Egypt and beyond because of the perceived risks associated with
running a private irrigation system on a commercial and full cost recovery basis.

Project Objectives

5.       The specific development objectives of the project were to achieve financial
sustainability of irrigation infrastructure in the West Delta and to promote greater
efficiency in the use of water resources established through a public-private partnership
and farmer’s participation. The project was thus designed to help the GoE achieve its
main growth and poverty alleviation related development objectives as expressed in the
2005 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Egypt. The project would in effect: (a)
provide critical infrastructure to achieve higher and sustained economic growth of export
oriented crops in the West Delta, as well as spillover effects in the service (packing,
market information, technical advice, logistics) industry, and input industries (locally
produced fertilizers) and (b) contribute to indirect poverty reduction as agricultural
activities in the project area would have direct and indirect generation of employment
opportunities.

Project’s Components

6.      Component No. 1 Design, Construction, and Operation of a Surface Water
System (US$205 million). This component was designed to support activities leading to
the design, construction and operation of a surface water irrigation system of between
25,000 ha and 38,000 ha. An on-demand piped system was chosen as the preferred option
given the several advantages over open channel systems, particularly with regard to
efficient water resource use and lower environmental and social safeguards risks. The
detailed design was to be undertaken by the private operator that was to be contracted to
construct and operate the system on a long term basis. A fixed allocation of water
resources was to be made available by the government to the project area, based on the
estimated average annual requirement.

7.      Component No. 2 Market-driven Technical Assistance to Small and Medium
Scale Farmers (US$2 million; 1.5 million Euros). This component was to provide
technical assistance (TA) to small and medium growers, traders, food processors, to
increase West Delta products (fresh or processed) market share in national and
international markets.




                                            2
8.     Component No. 3 Support for Institutional Development and Capacity Building
of Project Management Unit, Regulatory Office and Water User Councils
(US$6 million). This component was meant to support capacity building of MWRI for
PPP contract management, regulatory oversight, and to users’ associations along the lines
of the policies for institutional reforms proposed by the MWRI. This component was
funded by the Government of the Netherlands.

                                 Costs by Component and by Financiers
                                             US$ Million

                                           IBRD           Afd*         Private      Gov.
Project Cost by Component                                             Sector &   Netherlands   Total
                                                                      Farmers

Component 1
Design, Build and Operate
(DBO) of on-demand surface                  145             30          30                         205
irrigation scheme (one DBO
contract)
Component 2
Support to small and medium                                 2                                          2
scale farmers (grant)
Component 3
Support for Institutional
Development and Capacity
                                                                                     6                 6
Building PMU, Regulatory
Office, and Water Users
Council (grant)
   Total Costs                              145            32           30           6             213
*Agence Française de Developpement (Afd) loan in Euro’s 25 million.


Implementation Arrangements

9.      The Government succeeded in securing partnership arrangements with: (i) PPIAF
to finance preliminary work to define the scope of the project and options for involving
the private sector in project implementation and the regulatory functions needed to
support the proposed transaction; (ii) the Government of the Netherlands (US$410,000)
to finance the transaction advisors for managing the bid for the private operator and
additional preparatory work for institutional development of the Water Users Council;
and (iii) the Bank Netherlands Water Partnership Program (BNWPP) to provide two
grants for carrying out social and environmental assessments and engage in stakeholders’
consultations. Afd also contributed to recruiting international consultants for the final
review of the agreements that would have been utilized for the PPP transaction.




                                                                3
10.     The project was to be implemented using a DBO contract with the private sector.
The establishment of a Regulatory Office was factored into the project design to provide
traditional economic regulatory functions for rate adjustments and tariff adjustment and
to oversee the contractual commitments of the operator with regard to the prescribed
service standards. In addition, an Independent Panel of Experts was to be set up as
needed to serve as an intermediate mechanism for handling disputes and conflict
resolution, if they arose between the Government and the private operator.

11.     The PMU was under the jurisdiction of MWRI. Some staff was designated by the
MWRI to be involved in project preparation. A PMU was established, with Dutch
financial support amounting to US$6 million, with the responsibility for: (i) monitoring
and making sure the project activities were being implemented as designed; (ii) ensuring
compliance with contract between the Government and the private operator; (iii) ensuring
implementation of the TA components for strengthening the contract administration, the
Regulatory Office, and the Water Users Council (WUC) as well as the initiatives directed
at assisting small farmers; and (iv) co-ordination, oversight and monitoring of the
Environmental and Social Management Plan Framework (ESMPF).

12.     The PMU Project Director was to be supported by: (i) a financial management
specialist; (ii) a procurement/disbursement specialist; (iii) a technical engineering and
construction specialists; (iv) an institutional specialist; (v) monitoring and evaluation
specialist; (vi) environmental specialist; and (vii) an administrative coordinator.

13.     The WUC was established as an independent farmers’ organization to take active
part in the project preparation and ultimately during implementation to monitor the
relationships and potential conflicts between farmers on such matters as water
entitlements. The WUC was actively engaged in the project preparation and ultimately
would have governed water users associations that will be formed once actual
beneficiaries of the project were subscribed.

2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation

14.     The project was approved by the Board on June 21 2007, but the loan agreement
was not signed by the Government until September 1, 2008 and the project was declared
effective on July 8, 2009. The Afd loan (i.e. 15% of the DBO contract amount) became
effective only in October 2009. The implementation schedule devised at appraisal (four
years duration) turned out to be highly unrealistic.

15.    Prequalification of Bidders: Based on the Bank prequalification guidelines, a
lengthy prequalification process was completed by the end of 2007. As a result of this
process, five consortia were prequalified. International (French, Spanish, Italian and
Chinese) and national contractors were amongst those prequalified.

16.     Despite the fact that two pre-bid conferences took place in March and May 2008,
the first bidding exercise of August 2008 was not successful as none of the prequalified
consortia submitted a bid.



                                           4
17.     This was principally due to: (i) the payment risks were considered too high; (ii)
the proposed guarantees by the Government were not sufficient for the private sector in
the absence of a PPP law; and (iii) the management of payment of the irrigation tariff and
the demand risk was not sufficiently advanced to be satisfactory to the private sector.
This was linked to the fact that PPP in construction and operation of large scale irrigation
projects is uncommon worldwide, and the willingness of the private sector to assume the
expected risks was limited. Most of the companies forming the five consortia had limited
experience with this kind of Design, Build and Operate contract in the irrigation sector.
The global financial crisis of August 2008 also contributed to the failure of the first bid.

18.     After the project was approved by the Government and declared effective in July
2009, the consortia expressed their continued interest in the project but indicated that they
still considered that the payment / demand risk was too great. The risk was perceived as
both political (political decisions might interfere with the companies’ ability to collect
water charges from the farmers), as well as a real credit risk (that farmers might default
on their promised to pay the irrigation tariff due to unforeseen developments in the
sector). Bidders voiced the need for protection or guarantees from the Government,
despite the fact that the DBO contract provided a number of measures to mitigate the
non-payment risk, such as forfeit of the farmers’ security deposit, discontinuation of
service, potential loss of water entitlement and other measures available to the operator.

19.     The consortia were required to establish a final bid tariff without having a
definitive project size of connecting farms. This created a major planning risk in the
event the irrigation distribution layout needed to be modified because of a change in the
connection of farms (e.g. higher than planned demand). Also, construction costs were
volatile in Egypt, which could potentially increase project costs and consequently might
raise tariffs for beneficiaries, who then might not be willing to pay the private operator or
join the project.

20.       Based on the above, the following conditions were deemed necessary:

         The Government would need to provide a stronger level of guarantee or backstop
          on the payment risk as there was significant concern by all bidders that, not only
          farmers may not fulfill their payment obligations, but also that the operator, for
          political reasons, may not be able to implement the risk mitigation measures
          contained within the contract.
         The subscription of farmers to the system needed to precede the bid as this would
          provide a more definitive number of farmers that were serious about connecting to
          the system.

21.    Given the above two conditions, extensive consultations were undertaken among
the MWRI, the Water Users Council (WUC), the bidders, the World Bank and Afd on the
following options:




                                              5
22.     First Option: The Government would provide some level of guarantee against the
payment risk by allowing the operator to deduct from its concession fee the amount
equivalent to its cash shortfall from non-paying farmers until it was able to effectuate the
remedies that were available to it under the contract. The proposed mechanism would be
strictly overseen by the Regulatory Office that would be put in place during the
implementation of the project. The operator would be able to implement measures to
disconnect non-paying customers.

23.     Second Option: The alternative however, would be to revert to the more
traditional Government led option as it was clear from this market test that the
Government must either backstop a private operator or take on this risk directly as it did
with purely public projects. This option would envision the restructuring of the existing
DBO contract into a Design-Build contract for the construction plus a four-year
management contract for operation. This option would require farmers to come up with
15% counterpart financing against the 85% provided by the government through the
World Bank and Afd loans. This contract would also significantly modify the nature of
the PPP concept as envisioned and would draw a greater number of contractors to bid
because of its closer resemblance to a traditional project implemented by the government.
This option would require a more extensive revision of both the bid documents and
overall restructuring of the project.

24.    The Government, in close consultation with the WUC, WB, Afd and the
Netherland Government, decided to take the first option. It then introduced the following
main transaction design features:

•      Pre-subscription of farmers to connect to the system should take place prior to
       submission of bids.
•      Beneficiaries who owned farms of an area equal or greater than 100 feddans
       would be required to submit a 1-year revolving letter of guarantee payable to the
       operator to secure the payment of the fixed tariff.
•      For the Beneficiaries who owned farms of an area less than 100 feddans, the
       government would allow the operator to delay payment of 50% of the respective
       share of the concession fee for a period of one year to secure the payment of the
       fixed tariff.
•      Farmers would be required to pay in advance their monthly volumetric charges
       for the quantity of water requested using pre-paid cards to guarantee the payment
       of the volumetric tariff.
•      A collective default of a specified percentage of farmers (to be determined
       following further financial assessment) would be treated as a special arrangement
       similar to force majeure provision.
•      GoE showed some real commitment related to paying back the loan amount, to
       financing the pumping station that would feed the downstream users and to
       shouldering all land acquisition responsibilities.

25.  Pre-subscription Arrangements: Following loan effectiveness (in July 2009), the
PMU published in local newspapers a call for farmers in the project area for pre-



                                             6
subscription to the proposed surface irrigation system. The number of applications
received by the Ministry was about 2,850. This represented a total area of about 43,750
ha which exceeded the set limit of 37,500 ha (first phase area). The high demand from
beneficiaries indicated a huge interest in the project from farmers. All eligible farmers
were to be asked an advance payment of LE 200 per feddan to demonstrate their
commitment to the project.

26.     Law regulating partnership with the private sector in infrastructure projects,
services and public utilities (Law 67 or PPP law). Before the second bidding exercise,
this law composed of 39 articles was promulgated in June 2010 by the Government. It
intended to govern and facilitate public-private partnership projects.

27.    The reasons for the lengthy preparation (one year) of the second bidding exercise,
were the following:

   a. the necessity to engage into significant pre-subscription of farmers;
   b. the necessity to revise the bidding documents and associated connection
      agreement, including the introduction of several guarantees with regard to
      collection of fees risks;
   c. re-prequalification of bidders (because of changes in Consortia partnerships); and
   d. the finalization of the PPP law

28.    The bidding documents were modified and a new bidding exercise was
undertaken. The four consortia invited to tender were:

   a. Hamza Associates, Arab Contractors and ICAT Consortium (Egypt);
   b. Orascom, Misr Sons Development, AAW Consulting Engineers & Société de
   Canal de Provence Consortium (Egypt and France);
   c. Mondragon Soluciones & Horse Engineering Consortium (Spain & Egypt); and
   d. Sinohydro Corporation Limited (China).

29.    The original date scheduled for bid submission was November 30, 2010. The
Government recommended postponing the bid submission date to 30 January 2011.
Subsequently bid submission was extended to April 18, 2011 due to the unforeseen
events of the January 2011 revolution in Egypt and subsequent difficulties of bidders
with the commercial banks to issue the required bid security.

30.    Of the four prequalified bidders the Orascom consortium and the Sinhydro
Corporation submitted letters indicating their intention of withdrawing from the bidding
process following the January 2011 revolution. A third prequalified bidder did not show
up on the bid submission deadline.

31.     The sole bid was received from the Hamza consortium. The three members of the
consortium were large companies with extensive experience and a fully satisfactory track
record, and had provided the required bid security.




                                           7
32.    Extensive discussions took place between the Bank, Afd and MWRI on the
question whether this sole bid was to be accepted. Finally in May 2011 it became clear
that MWRI was not even going to evaluate this single bid. Under these circumstances, the
Bank and Afd decided to close the project by its original closing date of June 30, 2011.
This decision was based on the assessment by the Bank that there were no serious
prospects for starting up the implementation of the project, as designed, under the
conditions prevailing at the time. In its letter notifying its decision not to extend the
closing date, the Bank indicated its support for new operation in the irrigation sector.

3. Assessment of Bank Performance

33.      The overall Bank performance regarding quality at entry was unsatisfactory.

34.    A Quality Enhancement Review (QER) was undertaken in early 2007. Several
issues were discussed such as the PDO, indicators, risk rating, institutional setup,
implementation arrangements and safeguards. In late 2007 the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG) panel reviewed the quality at entry of the project and made the following overall
judgment:

     The project had a commendably bold approach of bringing PPP to a region dominated
      by the public sector, where sustainability of development programs has always been
      an issue. Irrigation capital cost recovery, like in many other countries globally, had
      previously never been successful in Egypt. Irrigation O&M cost recovery had in some
      cases also been difficult. The prospects for success of this project were good although
      the risks were high.
     The most significant risk faced by the project was that it had a high likelihood of
      either significant delays in getting an operator or having to revise the risk sharing
      arrangements significantly. The inadequate readiness for implementation left the risks
      unmitigated. A prudent risk mitigation strategy would have undertaken advance
      contracting where the bids had at least been evaluated and negotiated with the
      winning bidder prior to Board.

35.     The Bank Task Team maintained a productive relation with the MWRI. Many
high-level meetings were held with MWRI officials including the successive Ministers of
Water Resources and Irrigation and all stakeholders including prospective bidders,
farmers and NGOs. Several joint supervision missions took place with the participation
of the Afd and in close coordination with the Netherlands representatives in Cairo.

36.      The Bank Task Team assisted the MWRI in improving the bidding documents
after the first bidding exercise. The Bank Task Team also helped the Government in
ascertaining whether the project was prepared in accordance with the new PPP law, and
in initiating and following up on the very important matters of presubscription of farmers,
ascertaining land ownership, and the updating of the concept designs and cost estimates.




                                              8
37.    Due to the lack of progress in the implementation of the project, the Bank
considered to cancel the project in 2010 but was requested by the Ministry of Water
Resources and Irrigation to allow more time to try to attract private operators.

38.     In 2008, two NGOs, the Land Center for Human Rights and the Habi Center for
Environmental Rights, raised concerns about the project design, its environmental
impacts and compliance with the Bank’s disclosure policy. They were also critical of the
project and the Bank’s overall poverty alleviation policy in Egypt. The NGOs’ main
concerns focused on the followings questions: a) does the project only benefit large
farms; b) how will the project impact water availability for downstream users; c) does the
project violate any local environment legislations; d) does the project adequately address
the housing resettlement and/or loss of livelihood; e) did the project investigate the
alternative of using treated sewage effluent instead of Nile water. In addition the NGOs
requested that the PAD and the summary of the environmental and social framework be
translated into Arabic language.

39.    The Bank Task Team met with the two NGOs and responded to their complaints
and queries. A number of official letters from the Bank were addressed to the two NGOs
with comprehensive answers to their concerns. Relevant documents were provided in
Arabic translation.

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance

40.     The government was in general supportive of the project during its preparation
and appraisal phases. However, it took two years for the project to be ratified by the
parliament, after the Bank had approved it. In addition there were delays in approving the
Afd loan agreement. Project implementation following loan approval could have
benefited from stronger and more regular coordination between all stakeholders, and
more commitment and more decisive action by the Government.

41.     The Government managed at an early stage of the project to establish the
Transaction Advisory Team. However, this team proved not to have sufficient experience
in the irrigation sector, and dealing with farmers and private operators alike. Workshops
were held in which farmers’ participation was ensured and in which the various technical,
financial and regulatory aspects of the project were reviewed.

42.     Bank missions during the course of the project’s life (four years) had to deal with
three different Ministers of Irrigation and Water Resources. This did not help the
implementation of the project, specifically during and in-between the two bidding
exercises. The degree of support to the project varied from one administration to another.
43.     Also, the PPP unit of the Ministry of Finance raised a number of concerns with
regard to the design of the project after it had been approved by the Bank.

44.    The PMU consisted of one director and varying part-time staff from the MWRI.
With this institutional weakness, the project encountered undue delays. There were many
delays on the Government’s side: even though the loan was approved by the Bank Board



                                            9
in June 2007, the Government only signed the loan agreement in August 2008 and the
loan was only declared effective in July 2009, nearly one year after loan signature. In
addition the MWRI delayed the invitation of the second bid by about two months after
receiving the no-objection by the Bank. The Government also did not utilize the grant
available from Dutch financing.

45.    The overall Government performance was unsatisfactory.

5. Lessons Learned

46.    The lessons learned from the project could be summarized as follows:

       a.      Readiness for implementation: Both the Bank and the Government
       should have been more realistic about the time required to design a PPP structure
       that is sustainable. This high-risk-high-reward project was the first of its kind in
       Egypt. The procurement process should have been further along before project
       approval. In the future, PPP projects supported by the Bank should be allowed
       more time for preparation in order to ensure that all technical, social, and
       environmental aspects are taken into consideration including guarantees, risks and
       market assessment. The unsuccessful first bidding was partially due to the lack of
       detailed technical and commercial designs of the operation. In particular, more
       attention should have been given to the management of key risks such as
       continued payment by farmers, changing electricity prices, and possible problems
       with land acquisition. Adequate risk identification would have lengthened the
       project preparation but reduced the bidding time and maximized the probability of
       success.
       b.      Risk allocations: Demand risk is difficult to quantify in irrigation, and
       especially in a new setup such as a PPP project. It would have been advisable in
       an operation involving farmers’ participation that the Government provides at the
       outset clear and strong guarantees in order to encourage bidders.
       c.      Project implementation team and governance structure: A strong and
       well-staffed implementing agency with suitable decision making authority is
       necessary for such a project to be successful. In addition, the services of a
       qualified and experienced consulting firm to assist the implementing agency in
       project management and supervision should have been sought. This would have
       minimized delays and improved preparation of tender documents, management of
       the procurement process, and eventually implementation.
       d.      Coordination: The Ministry of Finance (i.e. the PPP Central Unit) and the
       Ministry of International Cooperation were insufficiently involved in the early
       stages of project design and in project preparation. This should be corrected in
       future PPP operations undertaken by the Bank in Egypt and elsewhere.




                                           10
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                  Responsibility/
Names                   Title                            Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Aldo Baietti            Lead Infrastructure Specialist   EASIN TTL
Maher F. Abu-Taleb      Senior Operations Officer        MNCSA Co-TTL
                                                               Environment and
Sherif Arif             Regional Safeguards Advisor      MNSSD
                                                               Safeguards
Julia Bucknall          Lead Water Management Specialist MNSSD Water Resources
Ahmed Shawky            Water Resources Specialist       MNSSD Water Resources
Hani El Sadani          Senior Water Resources Engineer MNSWA Water Resources
Philippe Marin          Water and Sanitation Specialist  WBIEN Water Resources
Heba Tahboub            Lead procurement Specialist      OPCPR Procurement
Kanta Kumari            Environment Specialist           MNSSD Environment
                                                               Social
Knut Opsal              Senior Social Specialist         MNSSD
                                                               Development
Ghada Youness           Senior Counsel                   LEGEM Legal
Zakia B. Chummun        Language Program Assistant       MNSSD Assistant
Farouk Shahin           Irrigation Consultant            MNSSD Irrigation
Nahed El Arabi          Groundwater Consultant           MNSSD Groundwater
Ayman Nassar            Engineering Consultant           MNSSD Engineering
Magdi Khalifa           Economist Consultant             MNSSD Economy
                                 Supervision/NCO
                                                               TTL until October
Aldo Baietti            Lead Infrastructure Specialist   EASIN
                                                               2008
                                                               TTL from
Abdulhamid Azad         Senior Irrigation Engineer       MNSSD
                                                               November 2008
Luis R. Prada           Senior Procurement Specialist    MNAPR Procurement
                                                               Co-TTL until
Maher Abu-Taleb         Senior Operations Officer        MNCSA
                                                               October 2008
Danielle Malek          Senior Counsel                   LEGEM Legal
Hani El Sadani          Senior Water Resources Engr.     MNSWA Water Resources
                        Senior Financial Management            Financial
Akram El-Shorbagi                                        MNAFM
                        Specialist                             Management
Raymond Bourdeaux       Lead Infrastructure Specialist   MNSSD PPP
Victoria Delmon         Senior Counsel                   LEGEM PPP
Vijay Jagannathan       Sector Manager                   EASIN Manager
Rome Chavapricha        Senior Infrastructure Specialist MNSEG Infrastructure
Eman Wahby              Communications Officer           MNAEX Communication
Mohammed Mehany         Operations Analyst               MNSWA Analyst
Zakia B. Chummun        Language Program Assistant       MNSSD Assistant
Armando Araujo          Consultant                       LCSTR Procurement




                                         11
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands (including travel
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                                  and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                               86.59
  FY05                                                              324.17
  FY06                                                              209.08
  FY07                                                              249.84
  FY08
                               Total                                869.68
Supervision/NCO
  FY07                                                                5.50
  FY08                                                              178.45
  FY09                                                              128.5
  FY10                                                              123.3
  FY11                                                              136.2
                               Total                                571.95




                                               12
Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents

   -   Project Appraisal Document
   -   Implementation Status Reports (2008-2011)
   -   Project Aide-Mémoires (2006-2011)




                                        13
MAP




14
15
