Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Re,)ort No. 9340-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
HOUSIi!C PROJECT
MAY 3, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1990)
Won 1         US$0.00140
Won 716   8   US$1.00
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m           -     Meter (3.2808 feet)
km          =     Kilometer (0.62 mile)
m!          -     Square meter (10.76 square feet)
km2         =     Square kilometer (0.3861 square mile)
ha          =     Hectare (2.47 acres)
py          -     Pyong (3.3 square meters)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
EIA         =     Environmental Impact Assessment
EPB         -     Economic Planning Board
KHB         =     Korea Housing Bank
KNHC        =     Korea National Housing Corporation
KLDC        -     Korea Land Development Corporation
MOC         -     Ministry of Construction
MOE         -     Ministry of Environment
MOF         e     Ministry of Finance
NHF         =     National Housing Fund
OSROK       =     Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
PDS         =     Policy Development Statement



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
HOUSING PROJECT
Loan and Protect Summary
Borrower:               The Republic of Korea
Amount:                  US$100 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayable in 15 years including five years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Onlending terms:        Through the National Housing Fund (NHF) to low-
income households at 10% (variable) for home
purchase repayable over 20 years including a 5 year
grace period.
Project Obiectives
and Description:     The  project  would   support   the  Government's
objectives in the sector by providing additional
resources to the Government through the NHF for low-
income housing and would assist the Government in
formulating   a  framework   for  housing  policy
development and an agenda for policy reform in the
sector. Over two years the project would provide:
(a) support for approximately 15,000 lower-income
housing units through targeted NHF lending programs,
and lb) technical assistance and training to build
the institutional capacity for developing further
specific  policy  and  regulatory  reforms.   The
Government's broad objectives for program and policy
reform are to: (a) better target public housing
assistance to the poor in terms of the needs of the
recipients and minimize the cost of providing the
assistance, and (b) improve regulation of the sector
in order to increase the efficiency with which the
market provides housing services to the entire
population.
Benefits and
Risks:           Tha main benefits of the project would be the:
(a) additional    housing    units    financed,
(b) improvements in the effectiveness of public
housing  programs   as   a   result  of  reforms,
(c) reduction in the rela-.lve price of housing due
to policy changes which improve the efficiency of
the   housing   market,    and   (d) institutional
strengthening of Ministry of Construction (HOC) and
its related entities. The proceeds of the Bank loan
would benefit families in the bottom half of the
income distribution.   There are no specific risks
associated with the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



a/
Estimated Cost:                      L2cal             orgin             Total
.........-- (US$ mllion)         -
IBRD supported units in
NHF Housing Program      399.5             100.0            499.5
Training and Studies             0.5               0.0               0.5
Total Prolect Cost       400.0             100.0            500.0
Financing Plan:                      Local            E2r2L              TOtAl
------------ (US$ million) ------------
Government                     400                   0              400
World Bank                       0                 100              100
Total                    400                 100             500
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                        11993                   1994         1995
-------- (US$ million) ----------
Annual                          8.0         36.0        38.0        18.0
Cumulative                      8.0        44.0         82.0       100.0
Economic Rate of Return:       Ranges from 10% to 16% (see para.3.4)
a/ Includes taxes estimated at US$25 million equivalent.



KOREA - HOUSING PROJECT
STAEF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i
I.    THE  HOUSING  SECTOR    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1
A. Recent Developments in the Housing Sector . . . . . . . . . .1
B.  Policies, Programs and Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
C.  The    Issut  .  .     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  .   .    .  .    .  .  . 11
D. New Policy Directions ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 13
II. THE PROJECT .14
A. Origin and Formulation  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
B. Project Objectives .................... . 14
C.  Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
D.  Cost Estimates.        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . . . . . . . 16
E.  Financing Plan  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 17
F.    Procurement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
G.  Project Implementation.   .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  . . . . . . . . 18
H. Accounts and Audits.         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
I.    Disbursement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
J. Monitoring and Reporting  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 20
K.  Environmental Considerations  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 20
III.    JUSTIFICATION  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   21
A.  Economic Rate of Return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
B. Risks .22
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .22
ANNEXES
1.  Policy Development Statement
2.  NHF Programs and Financial Statements
3.  Criteria for Subproject Selection
4.  Disbursement Schedule
5.  Economic Analysis
6.  Draft Terms of Reference for Studies and Technical Assistance:
a.Analysis of Public and Private Incentives in the Housing Sector
b.Review of Land Supply Regulations
7.  Procedures for Land Acquisition, Compensation end Relocation
8.  Bank Supervision Plan
9.  Documents available in the Project File
MUQ   The Republic of Korea - IBRD 20170
This report was prepared on the basis of preparation and appraisal missions
staffed by L.M. Hannah (Task Manager), R. de Silva (Senior Country Officer),
S.J. Malpezzi (Economist), A. Bertaud (Senior Urban Specialist), and several
foreign and local consultants. The appraisal mission took place in December
1990. Mr. Jeffery S. Gutman and Mr. Gautam S. Kaji, the managing Division
Chief and the Department Director, respectively, have cleared this document.



HOUSING PROJECT
I. THE HOUSING SECTOR
A. Recent Dgvelogments in the Housing Sector
1.1         Economic Performance.  Korea has proved to be one of the most
successful developing countries. Thirty years ago it was among the poorest,
heavily dependent on agriculture, with perennial balance of payments deficits
financed substantially through external assistance. But GNP growth averaging
8% since 1960 has raised Korea's per capita income from $180 in 1960 to
$4,400 in 1989 (both in current prices), and has made the country one of the
front runners towards industrialized country status.  Today, Korea is the
world's thirteenth largest trading nation and is making a name for itself in
sophisticated industrial products.
1.2         Korea's remarkable economic development is usually attributed to
its strong outward orientation and its reliance on incentives for investment,
including exchange and interest rates and dome&tic prices, that have broadly
been  consistent with market  signals.    In addition,  dynamic  economic
management has enabled Korea to adjust rapidly and decisively to periodic
shocks, a quality amply demonstrated in the wake of past oil shocks.
1.3         In the 1986-88 period, Korea experienced a major economic boom.
Aided mainly by the sharp decline in oil prices and enhanced export
competitiveness vis-a-vis Japanese goods due to the substantial appreciation
of the Yen, the Korean economy grew at 12.9% in 1986 while accumulating a
current account surplus, the first in its modern economic history, of $4.6
billion. This trend continued through 1987 and 1988, when GNP grew by 12.8%
and 12.2% and the current account registered surpluses of $9.9 billion and
$14.2 billion,  respectively.    Korea's  external position has  4mnroved
dramatically since the early-1980s to the extent that Korean investment
overseas has increased significantly in recent years.
1.4         After a period of wage austerity in the early- to mid-1980s,
large wage settlements suddenly burst on the Korean scene in 1987.   The
average wage in manufacturing increased 12% in 1987, 20% in 1988 and 21% in
1989. In contrab , in 1990 rncminal wage increases have been modest. The
rise in incomes have brought a growth in private consumption, which has been
booming at about 10% pea annum in 1989, and may continue about the same rate
this year.
1.5         An economic downturn bsgan in 1989 following three years of
unprecedented growth. GNP growth slowed to its lowest level in eight years
in that year, at only 6.5% because of currency appreciation, higher wages and
widespread strikes. With a 4% fall i.& export volume, the current account
surplus fell from $14 billion to $5 billion. These factcrs have dampened new
investment in manufacturing and moderated co:porate interest in research and
development, which is badly needed as industries move into areas of more
complex technology. There are some signs of a renewal of growth propelled by



-2
construction and domestic consumption, but the basis of a return to export-
led growth has not yet been laid.
1.6         Urbanization and Industrializatio.  Korea's urban population,
30.9 million of a total population of 42.4 million in 1989, has been
increasing at more than three times the rate of the total population, by an
estimated annual rate of 4.1%, between 1979 and 1989, compared to about 1.2%
for the national population during the same period. Korea has attained this
high level of urbanization in a very short period of time. In 1960, only 38%
of Koreans lived in cities compared to more than 73% by 1989. A major reason
for this transformation    that in the past 25 years, the Korean economy has
changed from predominantl) rural and agricultural to urban and industrial.
Between 1960 and 1985, t.ae proportion of GNP generated by agriculture
decreased from 48% to 13%. It is now esti?,ated that by the year 2000, over
80% of the population will be living in cities.   This will require the
maintenance and imrrovement cf services for the existing population as well
as some 13 million additiondl urban dwellers.
1.7         With   rapid   urbanization   in   the   wake   of   increasing
industrialization, the concentration of population in large urban centers has
also increased. In 1960, about half the urban population lived in Seoul and
Pusan; by 1975, the proportion had increased to about 60% and has now
dispersed to several satellite cities- around the national capital region.
Migration in search of better paid employment and a higher standard of living
accounted for most of thesa zhanges.   Rapid industrialization had also
systematically reinforced the netural advantages of the main cities, which in
the earlier years offered the advantage of the largest pools of skilled and
semi-skilled labor.   In the 1970s and thereafter, when industrial sector
emphasis shifted to steel, chemicals, ships and otner heavy industries, t}.e
advantages of Seoul/Inchon and Pusan as ports became important for the
import/export trade. The growth of Seoul and Pusan itself led to the growing
scarcity of land in the traditional industrial and residential locations, so
that new and expanding industries established facilities nearby but outside
Seoul and Pusan. Therefore, sector planning objectives were overwhelmed by
the unintended ?ull of industrialization.
1.8         Demographic Factors. Although Korea has successfully reduced the
rate of population growth from about 3% in 1960 to about 1% today, the
migration to cities discussed above and a continued rapid rate of household
formation have adversely affected the housing sector. Household formation in
urban areas grew at an annual rate of almost 6% during the 1980s. Despite
the general slowdown in population growth, Korea still has one of the highest
densities of population in the world. Population density is estimated at 431
persons per sq km of total area of the country and taking the mountainous
terrain into account, the density of habitable areas may be two to three
times that level. Rural-urban migration referred to earlier has resulted in
crowded cities, increasing the demand for residential, commercial and
industrial accommodations. These developments have put great pressure on
urban housing markets and have caused a wide gap between housing demand and
sunply.



-3-
1.9         Housing DeMand  ad I&W1l.   Demand for housing has grown
continuously as a result of strong long-t  i macroeconomic performance, the
rapid urbanization which i.ccompanied it.  :rialization and the continued
formation of new households; it has also received a significant sho.ter term
push from recent large increases in wages and salaries. To meet the demand
from Ute new households and those migrating to urban areas would require
about 600,000 new units per year. If the present deficit (households minus
existing units) of 3 million houses were to be eliminated over ten years that
would require another 300,000 units per year. Deteriorated housing probably
requires replacement of about 100,000 units per year for a total of close to
one million new units to satisfy the triple goals of accommodating new
households, closing the gap over the next decade and replacing housing units
taken out of the stock.
1.10        In contrast, actual annual constrvction averaged only 254,000
units in the 1980s and just 334,000 units annually in the past five Years.
The nst addition to the housing stock has been even smaller (232,000 units
annually in the past four years) due to the demolition and amalgamation of
older units. Building permits and housing starts durir.g 1990 showed a strong
upward trend w-ith about 500,000 units under production but this is sti:l far
short of the one million units mentioned above.
1.11        It should be mentioned that urban housing supply is augmented by
the redevelopment of land already used for housing. Old, relatively low
density urban housing is sometimes demolished and replaced by new, high
density development.   Redevelopment takes place under different laws and
programs  frv,m those  that control new  development.    Redevelopment  is
potentially important as a means of increaaing the urban housing stock,
especially because many inner areas of Seoul consist of old, low density
housing built shortly after the Korean war. But redevelopment has not been
carried out on a large scale in any Korean city during recent years.
Substantial redevelopment is probably not feasible until there is a change in
today's housing market reflecting easier mobility through a more elastic land
supply.
1.12        Housing Conditions.   The wide gap between housing demand and
supply has caused serious strains in the housing market, which have
translated into worsening housing conditions in terms of overcrowding,
particularly in the larger cities, and skyrocketing real estate values,
putting reasonable housing beyond the reach of many.   In contrast to
Government objectives, the number of housing units per 100 households
declined from 85 in 1966 to 70 in 1985 and increased marginally to 71 in
1989. Over half the households in major cities are renters, often sharing a
housing unit with several other families.
1.13        During 1977-87, the density of resldential prc- urty increased
slightly from 500 persons per hectare to 514 per hectare. h, Seoul, as very
little redevelopment took place in or near the ciry center, the fringe areas
have been developed at a higher density resulting in more people being
crowded into the same floor area. Crowding has also increased because the
increase in population (25% in 10 years) has not been matched by a
proportional increase in developed land, which in turn is, therefore,



-4-
insufficient to increase the floor space per person in the long run. High
densities experienced in urban Korea reflect a strong demand for land and
cause high land prices in the market.   Attempts to control prices of
developed land do not diminish the real value of this land; subsidies are
made necessary by the land scarcity created by the current constraints on
supply.
1.14        Priggs.   During 1974-89, housing prices increased by 960%,
registering an average annual rate of 17.1%. This pace of increase was much
faster than the average rate of Inflation, 10.8% per annum (p.a.), and
consequently, the price of housing rose in real terms at an average annual
rate of 5.7%.  Housing prices stabilized between 1984 and 1987, but rose
sharply again in 1988 and 1989.  Rising housing prices have provided an
incentive for increased production of housing which has been partly off-set
by policies limiting the return to suppliers.
1.15        The demand for serviced land has also been strong and during the
same period (1984-87) land price movements exhibited a similar pattern, with
the increases in the price of land being reflected in house prices with a lag
of one or two years.   Land prices rose steadily until 1984, stabilized
between 1985 and 1987, and then rose substantially in 1988 and 1989. The
national average annual rate of increase of land prices during 1974-89 was
19.2%, which is somewhat higher than the average rate of increase in house
prices of 17.1%.  The rate of increase in residential land prices was a
little greater but were most remarkable in Seoul, recording an average annual
rate of 24.2% over 15 years. The cost of construction materials rose at a
much lower rate of 8.9% during the 1974-1989, but along with the wages of
construction workers, these costs k.ve risen sharply as the five-year drive
to build 2 million housing units in the Sixth Plan period gathered momentum
(see para. 1.23).
1.16        The index of consumption expenditure of urban households,  a
measure of their overall income, rose an average of 18.3% p.a. during the
last fifteen years. This was slower than the rate of housing price until
1986.   Since then housing prices have increased more slowly reflecting a
rapid increase in urban wage income in recent years. Although this implies
that the ability of the average household to purchase a housing unit improved
since 1986, the level of owner occupancy continues to fall in urban areas
from near 50% in 1970 to only slightly over 40% today. Moreover, the ratio
of the median purchase price of housing units to annual urban household
in'ome rose to 7.5 nationally and to 8 in Seoul by 1988. Also, first home
purchases were occurring later in people's working life in 1988 compared to
1982. It may be concluded that affordability deteriorated over time even for
the more affluent households having access to formal housing finance.
1.17        Spatial Characteristics of the HouMinj Market.  Korea's spatial
development has been characterized by a high degree of concentration of
population and economic activity in its two major citles - Seoul and Pusan -
and the axis linklng them across the length of the country. In contrast,
most other areas have experlenced relatlvely slow growth, declining
population shares and less obvious progress.  In the 1970s and 1980s, the
dominance of the two main citles has gradually been reduced, though growth



-5-
has continued to reinforce the developed Seoul-Pusan axis. Most growth has
occurred either just outside the bo-undaries of Seoul and Pusan, or in a range
of medium-sized cities located along the developed axis. As a result, the
share of Seoul and Pusan in the urban population ?. a stabilized at aoout 46%
by 1989, while large gains have been made by the secondary cities.
1.18        Seoul's growth has been at the center of the debate on spatial
development strategy.   Various actions have been waken to restrict and
redirect its growth, which have had a negative impact on the housing sector:
the establishment nf a greenbelt in the 1970s; strict land use planning under
two comprehensive National Development Plans, 1972-81 and 1982-91,
respectively; and the division of the Capital Region into a spectrum of zones
ranging from dispersal to promotional. These efforts have spread the city
continually southward, close in at first, then further south.  Today, the
areas open for expansion lie in the far south of Kyonggi Province at
distances of 30-50 km from the city center.
B. Policies. Progrsms and Institutions
1.19        Historical  Sector  Policies.    As  mentioned  earlier,  rapid
urbanization and growing personal incomes following accelerated economic
development have put great pressures on urban housing markets.    A trend
toward smaller households has resulted in even more rapid growth in the
number of households.   This is evident in the rapid rate of household
formation noted in paragraph 1.8. For these reasons and in part owing to
past policies, which emphasized industrial growth at tho expense of social
infrastructure development, Korea has been unable to overcome an acute and
persistent housing shortage.
1.20        Prior to the early 1960s, the main concern in the sector was to
replace and rebuild the housing destroyed during the Korean war. During the
first two Five Year Plans (1962-71), most of the country's resources and
efforts were devoted to stimulating its export industries, and housing
received little attention from the Government. This policy of discouraging
investment in housing persisted until the early 1970s when the Government
formulated an ambitious Ten Year Housing Construction Plan and established
the main public agencies in the sector, which produced 30% of the new units
built during the Third Plan (1972-76). Specific measures were initiated to
increase the housing output of both the public and private sectors. These
included quantitative targets for increasing housing production and
investment; expanding the public sector role; and measures to reduce cost,
increase the supply of funds and provide incentives for both developers and
builders. The Bank participated in discussions on these and other measures
with the Government as part of a dialogue on the development of the housing
sector. This dialogue resulted in the first National Urban Land Development
Project (Loan 1980-KO of May, 1981).
1.21        During the Fourth Plan period (1977-81), the policy of expanding
housing supply was successful. However, policy-makers concluded that abrupt
expansion of the housing market was creating other problems by absorbing
scarce resources in the short run and by fuelling inflation through the



creation of opportunities for short-enrm capital gains.   Consequently,
measures were taken to cool the demand for housing. These policies, anid a
general slowdown in the economv, had the effect of discouragit.g private
developers, thus enhancing the .ole of publ'.c institutions in supplying
housing in a way not fully intended.  There was a resulting-.  declira in
housing production, from 250,000 units in 1979 to about 150,000 in 1981,
along with a worsening ri.cio of housing units to households.
1.22        The  Fifth  Five Year  Plan  (1982-86)  and associated policy
initiatives were designed tt reve.se this decline. Assigning priority to the
housing sector, the Fifth Plan emphasized meeting basic needs of urban
dwellers and improving the quality and availability of urban rervices.
Housing,  water  supply  and  sewerage,  urban  transport  and  general
infrastructure were the primary focus of the Government's urban development
strategy, and in it, housing had first priority.  In 1982, the Government
announced a number of measures to accelerate economic growth, including
special financing for housing loans to be made available for the purchase of
existing houses or the construction of new units. Central to the housing
sector strategy was the establishment of the National Housing 'und (NHF) as
the Government account designed to increase the availability of housing
finance for lower-income households. Rapid and extensive development of
land by the public sector, mainly through the Korea Land Development
Corporation (KLDC) was seen as an important means for stabilizing the housing
nharket. Thie measures proposed to increase private participation in the
sector were also important, but stopped short of fully opening the market for
the provision of low-income housing to private developers. Advantages and
privileges extended to public developers gave them a major competitive edge
ove: the private sector.  At the time o-. financing the Second National Urban
Land Development and Housing Project (Loan 2216-KO of 1982), the Bank pointed
out that subsidies may be justified in housing as a benefit distributed to
lower-income families, but the method of allocating subsidies in Korea
neither met this objective nor justified the disadvantages faced by private
developers. Host importantly, equity in subsidy allocation was not ensured
because they were extended even to the larger  oousing units built at that
time and, therefore, to higher-income families. (This misallocation was
substantially corrected under the most recent BaAik-supported project as
described in paragraph 1.36.)
1.23        Under the Sixth Plan (1987-91), a further evolution of housing
policies occurred, drawing on the lessons of the public sector-led expansion
policies of the early 1980s and the environment of high growth with stable
prices.   The Plan was characterized by a special emphasis on social
development and the improvement of living standards, in particular, much-
needed improvements in general housing conditions in response to the rising
expectations of the increasingly urban population. Thinking among policy-
makers at the outset of the Plan made land development an4 strengthening the
housing finance system priority goals. During this period, KLDC grew at a
rapid rate and several innovative ways were found to expand the land
available for housing such as the construction of new towns around Seouil.
The Plan included the expansion of the financial sector to respond to its
social objectives by improving the financing of housing and by adapting them
to the needs of low- and middle-income households. The Plan announced a



-7-
target of 2 million new housing units by 1991 and a target average share in
housing investment of 6i of GNP.
1.24        The  fundamental  goal  of  the  Plan was  to  improve  housing
conditions overall, with an emphasis on lower-income households, which would
be assisted by direct public sector initiatives to improve lncreasingly
difficult housing conditions. Government sought to promote reasonably primed
rental housing for the lower-income households, who could not afford owner-
occupancy.  The Government attempted to carry out its role to assist the
lowest income households by targeting public programs more narrowly on the
truly needy and by broadening the types of assistanun available to eligible
households, in line with overall social priorities and public spending
guidelines.   These social goals were to be the special objective of the
National Housing Fund (NHF). While the proposed project supports the bas.c
goals set by the Government, it establishes a procedure for broadening the
analytical basis for policy-making to the entire sector which is likely to
lead to even more drastic revisions to existing public programs and, perhaps
more importantlj to related regulatory reform.
1.25        The Bank provided four loans for the sector during the last
decade. Three loans were made for urban land and housing development (Loan
numbers  1980-KO, 2216-KO and 2704-KO of 1981, 1982 and 198o, respectively)
which assisted the Government on specific measures to improve the
affordability of housing for low-income households and in the establishment
of the land development agency. In support of the Sixth Plan's emphasis cn
improving the design of mortgage lending instruments in order to irprove
access to housing finance and home ownership by low-income fami±.Les, the Bank
made a loan for the Housing Finance Sector Project (Loan 2853-KO of June
1987).
1.26        Sector Institutions.   The main sector institutions are the
Ministry of Construction (MOC),the Korea Housing Bank (KHB), the  National
Housing Fund (NHF), the Korea Land Development Corporation (V!.DC) and the
Korea Natienal Housing Corporation (KNHC). The Economic Planning Board (EPB)
is responsible for national economic planning.
1.27        In the context of nation.l  plaiis, MOC,  through its Housing
Bureau, has the main responsibilit, for the formulation of national housing
policy and plans. HOC prepares the Five Year Plan strategy pertaining to
housing as well as the annual targets and goals for the sector. MOC staff,
with the assistance of a Ministry-sponsored research lnstitute, iormulate all
key policies and provide the day-to-day regulations that govern the housing
and land markets. They exercise the policy implementation and regulatory
functions directly as a line ministry and indirectly through the activities
of several ministry-controlled agencies such as the land and housing
corporasions.   One important instrument for implementing social housing
policy is the National Housing Fund (NHF), through which MOC directly
executes part of its low-income housing program.   MOC also oversees the
operation of KHB and KNHC.  The MOC's Land Bureau is responsible for studying
and monitoring land development plans, and formulating land development
policies. The approval of land acquisition for public use and the oversight
of KLDC are also the responsibility of this Bureau.



v 8 -
1.28        KNHC was established in 1962 to lmplement the public housing
programs, specifically for low and moderate-income families.   KNHC's main
activity is the countrywide development of large-scale housing projects
consisting of small-sized dwelling units. In order to make public housing
attractive and affordable to lower- and middle-income buyers, KNHC has
concentrated on the lower end of the market, although the size of its minimum
unit has increased slowly over time to match the demind. KNHC's policy is to
recover all direct and indirect expenditures from sales.
1.29        KLDC was established in 1978 as the successor to the Korea Land
Bank and was given a broad mandate to develop land for urban and industrial
use.  KLDC's main priority is the development of land for public housing
programs. Other objectives and functions include the development and sale of
land for private residential and industrial use, the acquisition and resale
of idle but already developed land, the reclamation of land from the sea,
urban renewal to promote the rehabilitation of urban areas and the
development of new cities and towns.
1.30        KHB is a public bank established in 1967 as the principal sector
financing agency for mobilizing savings and extending housing loans.  KHB
operates under the general supervision of the Ministry of Finance. KHB's
market share of mortgage lending has been increasing at the same time as
total mortgage lending has grown rapidly. In 1989, KHB doubled Its lending
compared to the previous year and financed about 53% of new mortgages. Aside
from its still low loan-to-value ratio of about 25% of the value of housing,
KHB's performance in carrying out its mandate has been very good and it is a
well-managed and consistently profitable institution.
1.31        NHF may be described as the Government's social housing finance
window. NHF is a government line of credit managed by the MOC's Housing
Bureau while its lending program and day-to-day operations are administered
by KHB. NHF was established in 1981 to distinguish the Government's social
objectives from KHB's more market-oriented lending activities and to permit
more direct policy guidance by the Government.   NHF was also created to
fulfill the need for more housing finance at a time when priority was still
given to other credit users. The main goal of NHF was to provide assistance
to house lower-income "homeless" families (those not owning a housing unit,
those renting in shared accommodations and households displaced by disaster).
NHF has done this through lending for small housing units.   NHF lending
programs involve financing extended to KNHC, local governments and private
developers for the construction of multi-family projects, which are marketed
directly by those entities  to qualified households.   The construction
financing is subsequently converted to long-term NHF mortgage loans. For
house purchase, NHF's main program, loans carry positive interest rates. NHF
made about 70,000 loans for house purchase in 1989. NHF funds are primarily
raised with tax-like instruments from higher income households purchasing
real estete and constructing new houses and by deposits, compulsory for those
wishing to borrow in the future. Almost no NHF funds are raised on the
financial markets in competition with other intermediaries. Annex 2 provides
a detailed analysis of NHF's lending and mobilization activities.



-9-
1.32        Starting in 1986 NHF expanded its programs by offering financing
for rental housing to address the needs of the lowest-income households.
Loans are made available to landlords who agree to construct qualifying new
units and rent them to eligible low-income households. The benefit of low-
cost financing is passed on to the low-income tenants through lower rents.
The loans for rental housing, which are expected to comprise less than 20% of
the units during the project period, were originally charged at the rate of
5% interest which was approximately the rate of inflation when the program
was introduced. A subsequent fall in inflation (to about 3% in 1987) caused
the government to reduce the charge to 3% for rental lending. Although the
Government continues to charge an average interest rate on all NHF loans
which exceeds the average cost of funds, the recent rise in inflation to
almost 10% at the end of 1990 has raised questions about the policy of cross-
subsidizing the rental loans. Although loans for rental accommodation are
not financed from the Bank loan, the review of specific subsidies under the
project will address this question.
1.33        Bank ObJectives and Pastj&nding in the Sector.   The BankIs
lending strategy for the housing sector has evolved along with the experience
of the previous projects. Initially, the Bank concentrated on introducing
basic approaches to the provision of low-income housing to its individual
clients. These efforts were largely successful and led to a more ambitious
plan for shaping the overall agenda for specific institutions that the Bank
was supporting.    In most cases  these endeavors were effective,  often
utilizing both formal and informal sector studies to inform managers and
policy-makers of the options and choices that they faced.   The projects
introduced more affordable, better-targeted units in public programs, and
subsequently promoted specific institutional strengthening in major public
agencies in the sector.  In the most recent operation the Bank's strategy
shifted to focus on reforms for the housing finance system which proved to be
a more significant target than the narrow single-institution public programs
previously pursued. For this project, the Bank strategy has been elevated
one more step to sector-wide concerns and policies which link the performance
of the housing sector to the rest of the economy. This expanded approach is
timely both in terms of the availability of new analytical techniques to
model the cumulative effect of all major public interventions in the sector
and to help understand those situations where even rational behavior on the
part of an individual institution may result in undesirable outcomes for the
sector as a whole. The present Bank strategy thus emphasizes the need for
housing policies, programs and regulations to not enly reinforce agreed
sector goals but, in turn, to fit within the country's overall economic and
social priorities.
1.34        The projects financed by the Bank in the housing sector have been
generally well implemented and satisfactorily completed. The First National
Urban Land Development Project (1980-KO), approved in 1981, supported the
establishment of KLDC and promoted, through KNHC, the provision of several
types of housing units affordable to low-income households.   The Second
National Urban Land Development and Housing Project (2216-K0), approved in
1982, further strengthened KLDC and KNHC, improved their coordination, set
social objectives and began to address housing finance issues. Both projects
have contributed to raising the Government's awareness of techniques to



- 10
promote more low-income housing and the introduction of innovjF  e policies,
such as expandable core housing, graduated mortgage payments and
affordability analyses.   Studies financed under the above projects have
provided the Government with a good basis for improving specific aspects of
housing programs.
1.35        The Urban Land Development Project (2704-KO), approved in 1986,
supported a comprehensive program of in Litutional and policy development for
KLDC including strengthening of financial management, cost allocation,
pricing policies, project selection and evaluation, training programs,
computerized accounting and a management information system, and assisted the
development and provision of infrastructure and services to about 2,700 ha to
house about one million people. A financial planning model developed under
the project is now in use. The project was completed in June 1990.
1.36        The Bank's last intervention in the sector was the Housing
Finance Sector Project (2853-KO), approved in June 1987, which supported a
two-year time slice (1987-89) of NHF's lending program for low-income housing
and addressed a number of policy and institutional issues related to the
housing finance system. The project was satisfactorily completed in December
1989, Under this operation, NHF considerably improved the targeting of its
programs.  The maximum size of unit eligible for financing was reduced by
over 30% and the clientele of NHF significantly differentiated from that of
KHB which had not previously been true. In addition, MOC adjusted the terms
and conditions of NHF lending so as to taper the subsidies toward the lower-
income households.    Thus,  NHF has  improved the progressivity of  its
assistance to a considerable extent making the modest level of subsidy
provided through access to NHF loans tilted toward the poor.
1.37        The second objective of the previous operation was to support the
continued development of the market-based housing finance system. Positive
actions on all of the main activities took place: the mandate of KHB was
revised, the operationally oriented studies on mobilization and lending
instrument development were successfully completed.   However,  the slow
progress of overall financial sector liberalization remains the determining
factor. The main improvements in the market-based housing finance system
since 1987 are: (1) the continuing deepening of the housing finance system as
measured by the aggregate loan-to-value ratio of the sector, (2) the entry of
several new lenders into the sector, (3) the introduction of an innovative
mortgage product by one lender, and (4) the creation of the Housing Finance
Credit Guarantee Fund to insure mortgages of low-income borrowers and thereby
improve their access to finance.
1.38        The four preceding projects have been successful in achieving
their  specific  goals  in  respect  to  efficient  implementation.    The
institutional objectives have also been largely achieved. Although linked to
improved sector policies the earlier projects have had limited impact in this
area. The initial introduction and efficient completion of less expensive
housing for low-income households took place despite poor overall sector
performance during the period.   The Bank's second project attempted to
further address institutional development and coordination issues of public
agencies in the sector. A coordination mechanism between two major agencies



- 11 -
was featured in the second project but the effect on reducing overlap was
modest. The efforts devoted to a single but critical actor, KLDC, in the
third project were effective in strengthening that agency and assisting it to
grow rapidly.  The third intervention focused on the second sector issue
identified in the earlier projects, the underdeveloped housing finance
system, and addressed concerns in the entire market not simply in the public
agencies. The overriding lesson of this series of projects is, while it may
be appropriate or even necessary to start operations in a country by
addressing specific technical questions and single-institution issues, that
contributing to successful sector performance quickly requires that policy
and overall market issues be tackled in a more general framework. Succeeding
projects have moved in this direction, and the proposed project is the next
logical step.
C. The Issueg
1.39        To some extent Korea's rapid industry-based economic development
has sown the seeds of the present problems in the housing sector. The same
policies which stimulated the export-led industrialization drive also
restrained spending on a variety of social infrastructure and consumption
oriented needs, including housing. The latter was achieved through direct
controls on the supply of land and housing as well as indirect restrictions
on the availability of credit for housing purchase. The result has been a
persistent shortage and ever increasing high prices of housing units which in
recent years has become a serious social and political issue in the country.
At this time, the main sector issues and the Government's strategy to deal
with them, reflect the now high priority that all Koreans give to stabilizing
and improving the responsiveness of the housing sector.
1.40        The principal issue in the housing sector for both Government and
households is the high absolute level of prices and long-term rate of
increase in the prices of housing and urban land.  This is, of course, a
symptom of long-standing underlying problems but the run up in prices has
occurred so quickly that Koreans now find themselves in some of the,
relatively, most expensive housing in the world. The implication of these
high prices is felt most severely by lower-income groups where sharing a
single dwelling with three or more cther families is normal for one-quarter
of urban families and where rents for those in the bottom quarter of the
income distribution normally take one-third of the families' income.
Consequently, affordability of reasonable housing has become a primary issue
(see paras. 1.14 and 1.15).
1.41        Rapidly rising prices have been a major preoccupation of housing
policy-makers for at least ten years. More than twenty-five measures have
been introduced to curb real estate "speculation" but the cumulative (or
overall) effect has often been to reduce competition among suppliers,
discourage production, raise costs and generally make the entire supply
system more rigid. The distortion caused, on the supply side by producing
fewer and perhaps different units than "demanded", and, on the demand side by
resorting to administrative regulation rather than price signals, have both
served to push up prices faster than would have been the case otherwise.



12 -
1.42        The second (and closely related) lssue in the housing sector in
Korea at this time is the weakness of the supply response to sharp increases
in demand in recent years. This problem is manifest in the ever declining
ratio of houses to households and the substantial lag in supply to changes in
demand. Even in those cases where supply is rising there has been a general
failure to moderate prices. This issue of an unresponsive housing supply
system has become the symbol of the need to reform the housing sector and
make it more sensitive to effective demand (see paras. 1.9-1.11).
1.43        As mentioned,  the policies introduced to control prices have
largely worked on the supply side. Returns to producers have been reduced,
dampening the supply response and extensive regulations have reduced the
ability of suppliers to respond to the inevitable variety of demand for
different sizes, locations and prices of housing.
1.44        At the same time as the housing supply system, in general, is
performing poorly, the situation of lower-income households has been getting
relatively worse. Public housing programs and government financial support
to the sector have been substantially augmented in recent years but the
overall outcomes in the housing sector have not served well the most needy
households. Therefore, an important dimension of sector regulatory reform
will be  its effect on lower-income households.    Such reform will be
buttressed by an exercise to redesign public housing programs in terms of
their efficiency and effectiveness in assisting lower-income families. This
is the third issue in the sector at this time.
1.45        Finally,  there are a number of important influences on the
housing sector from other policy areas. Perhaps foremost among these is the
issue of the overall taxation of the housing sector. Tax reform has become
important because present policy and practice is not serving either the
economic or social objectives of the Government in the sector.   Incomes
derived from real estate are unevenly and inadequately taxed. Property taxes
appear too low and discourage the supply of residential land. The second
area of "out0' " reform affecting the housing sector is financial sector
liberalizatic   ind the regulations for housing finance institutions.  The
Government's commitment to reform in this area has moved more slowly than
anticipated and, as is the case in most countries, housing finance is among
the last types of finance to be liberalized. The NHF serves a stop-gap role
in the meantime to provide near-market rate finance to lower-income buyers
who would be rationed out of the present regulated financial system and to
provide viable financial innovations such as the lending for rental
accommodation introduced two years ago. A third area of reform is internal
to the housing sector but outside the mandate of the principal policy-making
agency - HOC.  This is the regt, tion and development of the real estate
industry which is under the juristiction of the Ministry of Home Affairs. In
all of these cases MOC intends to take the initiative to bring the concerns
of the housing sector to the attention of responsible officials in other
ministries.



- 13 -
D. New Poligy DirectiLns
1.46         The Government's new policy directions reflect concerns about
the four general sector issues described in the preceding section: high and
rising prices, an unresponsive supply system, ineffective government housing
programs and non-housing policies adversely affecting sector performance. As
part of the preparation of this project the Government sought to restate
basic sector goals as a prelude to a review of the totality of public
intervention in the sector.   In doing this the Government established a
hierarchy of monitorable goals for the housing sector which provide clear
longer-term targets as well as shorter term beacons to the success of the
ongoing reforms (Annex 1). A significant benefit of the approach adopted by
the Government is to enabl' it to make explicit trade-offs among the
competing objectives.  Policy reform is being treated as a continuous process
of establishing goals, evaluating policies, regulations and programs, taking
corrective actions and monitoring the outcome.
1.47        In deciding to review  and reestablish basic policy directions
Korea's policy-makers recognized that the housing sector was suffering from
significant distortions due to inconsistencies and poor coordination among
policies  and  regulations.    The  perception was  of  an  over-regulated,
unresponsive system facing strong demand. The necessity to let market forces
determine fundamentals in the housing sector was widely agreed but the best
path to a more deregulated environment was unclear. The key question was how
to reform the sector without a costly or protracted transition. Thus the
exercises now planned are designed to link the new overall housing sector
goals (Annex 1) to specific reform programs.
1.48        The most important new policy direction is to promote the
expanded supply of housing and to make the key input markets such as those
for land and finance work better. The mechanism will be gradual deregulation
of the sector to enable the housing industry to better respond to demand.
The deregulation strategy involves creation of increased competition among
suppliers of housing and key inputs, fair taxation of all players in the real
estate market and a general reduction of unnecessary bureaucratic red-tape to
permit more responsive and less costly supply of the housing that people want
to buy.
1.49        The second pillar of the new policy directions in housing is to
make public programs more focused on assisting the poor and less directed to
other objectives. The effort to "target" public programs starts by making
the way they work more transparent and, then, by setting and publicizing
clear rules for the assistance embodied in those programs. The aim is to
have more needy people assisted at a lower cost per household than at
present.



- 14 -
II. ,THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Formulation
2.1         The project originated in the course of the Bank's ongoing
dialogue with the Government on social policies, in general, and the dialogue
on housing sector policy and program reform, in particular. As discussed in
the section on previous lending operations (see para. 1.33), the Bank and the
Government have collaborated on a series of projects whlch commenced with the
introduction of specific solutions to low-income housing needs and assisted
with the establishment and strengthening of specific sector institutions.
The foci of the projects have gradually been broadened to subsector specific
topics such as land development and housing finance covering the primary
public sector actors in those areas, namely KLDC and NHF. Despite reasonable
successes in many of these areas key policy-makers and officials in the
Government are aware that actual and perceived trends in housing and land are
not proceeding in an acceptable direction from either an economic or social
point of view.
2.2         In order to retain the Bank's involvement in the housing sector
and  to  obtain  continued  specific  and  general  assistance  on  related
institutional and policy matters, the Ministry of Construction requested that
the Bank undertake further operations in the sector.  MOC preferred to use
the NHF as the vehicle for directing Bank funds to the sector because of the
recent successful experience with this channel and because NHF is directly
under the control of the principal policy-makers in MOC. The Bank concurred
with this plan.   The Bank's response to MOC's request was to undertake
preparation of this project by reviewing the status of key programs and
policies and together with MOC to prepare a Policy Development Statement
(PDS) (Annex 1) which sets out both the objectives and the process for
improving the programs and policies in the sector. The Government's request
for assistance reflects the perception that a distorted housing market is a
serious economic and social policy issue where the Bank'n independent advice
and analytical approaches on the basis of its cross-country experience may
help improve Government housing policy and the sector's performance.
B. Proiect Obiectives
2.3         The project would support the Government's objectives in the
sector by providing additional resources to the Government through NHF for
lower-income housing and by assisting the Government in formulating a
framework for housing policy development and an agenda for policy reform in
the sector. The Government's broad objectives for program and policy reform
are: (a) to better target public housing assistance to the poor in terms of
the needs of the recipients and to minimize the cost of providing the
assistance, and (b) to improve regulation of the sector in order to increase
the efficiency with which the market provides housing services to the entire
population.



- 15 -
C. Project Descriltion
2.4         The project would, over four years, provide (a) funding for an
ongoing program of targeted lending through NHF for low-income housing; and
(b) technical assistance for institution building in the sector.   The
proceeds of the Bank loan would be channeled through NHF and would provide
end-user financing for approximately 15,000 lower-income households who are
participating in NHF's program for owner-occupied housing. The Bank loan
would finance a portion of NHF mortgages equal to the estimated indirect
foreign exchange which is valued at approximately 250 of the total value of
the new housing constructed.   All of NHF's programs are targeted to
households in the bottom half of the income distribution and the bias within
that range is toward the lower end.
2.5         NHF's purpose is to improve the housing conditions for lower-
income households by providing long-term financing to owner-occupiers and to
qualifying landlords  in the case of rental accommodation.   NHF is a
government fund under the direct control of the Ministry of Construction.
The day-to-day administration is contracted out to the Korea Housing Bank for
a fee (see para. 1.31 for details).  During the project period (mid-1991
through mid-1995) NHF intends to lend approximately US$15 billion equivalent
for approximately 888,000 new housing units. NHF's main programs are lending
for owner-occupied small houses which are supported by this project. During
the past two years the targeting of this program has been significantly
improved by reducing the maximum size and increasing the share of the
smallest units financed.
2.6         During the same period NHF has also attempted to address the
housing needs of the lowest income families by providing, for the first time
in Korea, long-term loans for landlords whc build qualifying new units and
agree to rent them to low-income families at rerts which pass the benefits of
the low interest rates on to the tenants.   At the outset of the rental
program the interest rate was set at 5% p.a. which was approximately equal to
the inflation rate at that time. As inflation decreased political pressure
was brought on the Government to reduce these rates accordingly. They were
reduced to 3% on April 15, 1989 but the inflation rate rapidly climbed to
almost 10% over the past one to two years.   Loans at this now deeply
subsidized rate of 3% are about 20% of NHF's plan for the project period with
other loans being charged at 10% with the exception of a small program for
rural housing charged at 8%.   (See Annex 2) All NHF interest rates are
variable at the discretion of the Government, and the first task for the
policy and program review is to examine NHF's rental lending program in the
context of overall subsidies in the housing sector and to reform them
accordingly. Despite the low rate on rental lending, which would not be
financed from the Bank loan, NHF maintains an average return on portfolio
above the average cost of funds (see Annex 2).
237         The project also comprises a program of technical assistance to
the Ministry of Construction which is designed to establish a reform program
for housing policies and prugrams. Central to preparation of the proposed
project has been a dialogue with MOC on reform of its social housing programs
and sector-wide housing policies. Agreement has been reached on the content



- 16
of a policy review to address several important sector problems, namely, high
land and house prices; high rents and levels of crowding; uncompetitive
conditions resulting in high returns to land development; and ineffective
subsidies.  The agreed strategy for what is termed a policy and program
review and regulatory audit is described in the Government's Policy
Development Statement (PDS) of Marc;i 26, 1991. In it, the Government sets
new policy directions and adopts a methodology and a timetable for
development of specific measures within an analytical framework which
emphasizes the need for comprehensive reform programs. Four priority areas
for reform have been identified, namely, Government housing programs, housing
sector regulation, the land supply system and other housing related polices,
such as taxation and the housing finance system. Broad reforms are needed in
all these areas to restore efficiency and equity to the housing sector.
Progress in carrying out the sector reform program will be monitored against
five key indicators; reductions in the ratio of average housing prices to
household income; the level of rents relative to incomes; the ratio of the
price of adjacent raw and residentially zoned land (to reflect a more elastic
land market); the ratio of market price to factor cost of new housing (to
measure the general competitiveness of the housing industry); and the rate of
progress in assisting target households in the bottom half of the income
distribution.    The  Bank will participate  in all key aspects  of the
implementation of the PDS and will also provide technical assistance to the
Government, in the course of project supervision, on housing and land policy
for the Seventh Five Year Plan and the Third National Physical Land
Development Plan.
2.8         For the policy development process to be sustained training of
MOC staff is important. The project includes a plan to train MOC staff in
housing and land policy analysis during the project implementation period.
MOC will dispatch approximately two mid-level staff members per year for
overseas training at the Master's Degree level to institutions identified and
selected with the assistance of Bank.   In addition, several short-term
training sessions are planned which will help link MOC and its domestic
consultants to, then on-going, international research activities sponsored by
Bank and Habitat (UN).
D. Cost Estimates
2.9         The cost of the proposed project is estimated at W358,000 million
(US$500 million equivalent), including US$100 million equivalent foreign
exchange. Project costs also include an estimated US$25 million equivalent in
taxes.  These costs are the full value of the housing units which are to
receive financing from the proceeds of the Bank loan plus the estimated costs
of the technical assistance. The full value of the financed housing units
assumes that NHF will lend 50% of the value and that the Bank's reimbursement
of NHF lending will be for 40% of the loan value. Land acquisition costs are
not expected to exceed 40% of total project costs.



- 17 -
Table 2.1:  Project costs
Local    Foreign       Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Project Components  -Won Million ---                   -  -- US$ Million ----
NHF Programs         286,042    71,600      357,642      399.5  100.0    499.5
Studies & T.A.            358        0           358       0.5    0         0.5
TOTAL          286,400    71,600      358,000      400.0    0      500.0
E. Financing Plan
2.10             The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million would finance 100%
of the estimated foreign exchange component of the project or about 20% of
total costs. The Government would finance the remaining costs. Bank loan
proceeds would be on-lent from the Government to NHF on Bank loan terms plus
a fee of 0.05%. The NHF would bear the foreign exchange risk. The onlending
interest rate to beneficiaries of NHF's owner-occupied housing loan program
is 10% p.a. at present repayable over 20 years which is now slightly positive
in real terms but is well above NHF's cost of funds. It is, however, well
above the last three year's average CPI of 5.3% (1987-89) and approximately
1-2% lower than mortgages for higher income households and major commercial
lending rates under the prevailing interest rate regime in Korea.   NHF's
mortgage instrument is a variable rate instrument which can be changed at the
option of the lender. The Government would finance the technical assistance
and training associated with the project. The financing plan is shown below.
Table 2.2:  Financing Plan
Local     Foreign        Total        Share
-US$ Million -------
Government                           400            0          400          80%
Bank Loan                               0         100          100          20%
TOTAL                                400          100          500         100%



- 18 -
F. Procuxement
2.11            The proposed project finances a four-year time-slice of a
program (mid-1991 through mid-1995) for the construction of new housing units
throughout the country.   Separate procedures apply to each of the three
principal categories of borrowers eligible for NHF housing construction
loans, i.e., KNHC, local governments and private contractors.  ICB is not
proposed for the present project because the civil works under Government
housing programs are of a dispersed nature located throughout the country
and, therefore, are not attractive nor lend themselves to international
contracting. The Accounting and Budgeting Law of 1961 governs procurement by
KNHC (which is expected to absorb about 40% of NHF lending) and other
autonomous government agencies.   Under the provisions of this law, all
contracts valued at more than US$500,000 equivalent must be procured by local
competitive bidding (LCB) according to procedures established by the Office
of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK) that are consistent with Bank
guidelines.   Foreign firms are not prohibited from bidding under LCB in
Korea. All civil works contracts valued at US$8 million equivalent or more
would be reviewed in advance by the Bank as provided for under Loan 2853-KO.
These are expected to comprise about 25% of contracts, by value.
2.12            The procurement procedures of local governments (which woula
develop some 20% of all housing financed from NHF funds) are governed by the
Local Government Finance Law of 1963 which follows closely the procedures
applicable to autonomous agencies of the central government.   Municipal
housing contracts are not attractive to foreign firms, and local competitive
bidding applies to all contracts of more than US$500,000 equivalent under
terms and conditions consistent with Bank guidelines. Smaller contracts of
less than US$500,000 equivalent are let by local procedures acceptable to the
Bank. The third and remaining 40% of NHF-financed housing would be built by
private construction companies who solicit NHF finance for individual project
proposals that typically comprise 50 to 150 housing units. To be accepted
for NHF financing, the projects must conform to the design standards
stipulated by the Government for low-income housing which are acceptable to
the Bank.   Only contractors with sufficient experience and finances to
complete the projects are selected. The studies supported by the project
would be contracted, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, with
experienced local research institutes that have previously done satisfactory
work for MOC.   Qualified local consultants would be selected and wholly
financed by the Housing Bureau of the Ministry of Construction. The terms of
reference for the studies were agreed at negotiations.
G. Project ml1elmentation
2.13            The  project would be  implemented by  the Ministry  of
Construction's Housing Bureau. The management of the proceeds of the Bank
loan and the monitoring of the Policy Development Statement (PDS) and the
supervision of the associated studies would be handled by various Divisions
of that Bureau.   The funds made available under the Bank loan would be
channeled through the NHF for use in the ongoing low income housing programs
of the Government. The criteria to be used for the evaluation and selection
of subprojects are acceptable to the Bank (Annex 3). The NHF receives its
L_-.



19 -
guidance from the Housing Bureau of HOC and is administered on a day-to-day
basis by the Korea Housing Bank for a fee. That fee is presently 0.88% of
outstanding assets and it has been agreed between MOC aid KHB that it will
decline as the total value of assets rises.
2.14            The project also  involves two main policy development
studies, review of the preparation of the housing strategy sections of two
major national plans, The Seventh Five-year Economic aWJ Social Development
Plan and the Third Ten-year National Physical Development Plan, and periodic
reviews of the sector performance indicators adopted by the Government in the
PDS. The Policy Division of the Housir.g Bureau of HOC will contract with
local researchers for the two studies and provide direct supervision. MOC
has agreed to provide the results of the studies to the Bank by December 31,
1993. Through project supervision and other scheduled consultation the Bank
and its consultants will provide technical assistance to the Government in
these areas. The schedule of agreed outputs is contained in the supervision
plan in Annex 8.
2.15            NHF's separate accounts permit an independent financial
analysis which is contained in Annex 2.  In general, NHF has been well
managed and is financially sound. Major funding sources have been robust and
have ensured that the term transformation (the mismatch of maturities of
assets and liabilities) inherent in housing finance has not created a
liquidity problem. NHF's main funding sources are as follows:
(a)   Type-I housing bonds, a below-market instrument whose purchase is
required to obtain various construction and land registration
licenses and permits.
(b)  Type-2 housing bonds, a below-market instrument whose purchase is
required when individuals wish to purchase certain types of new
housing.
(c)   Subscription deposits, below-market savings accounts which give the
right to borrow from NHF and acquire certain types of allocated new
apartments in the future.
Profitability is currently adequat.e. The average interest expense during the
period 1987-89 was 6.6t and average interest income was 8.8%, generating an
average spread of 2.2%. NHF will maintain a strong financial position in the
future unless there is a fundamental change in government housing policy.
H. Accounts_and Aud&ts
2.16            NHF  accounting  systems  and  audit  arrangements  are
satisfactory. Project supervision would specially focus on timeliness of
submission of audit reports to the Bank, which has periodically been a
problem because of the lengthy review process. The system of accounts and
.qudit used in the second Bank-assisted National Urban Land Development
project would be retained for this project.   The audit would inclu..e a
separate certificate on statements of expenditures and would be submitted tn
the Bank no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.



- 20 -
2.17            NHF funds are disbursed to borrowers (whether KNHC, local
governments or private builders) based on the physical progress of the
project. Sub-projects for which Bank loan funds would be disbursed would be
selected following criteria agreeable to the Bank (Annex 3). Disbursements
would be made against statements of expenditures  (SOE) for 40% of NHF
subloans which were signed after the effectiveness of this project. The
related documentation will not be sent to the Bank but will be held by NHF
and made available to the Bank upon request. A Special Account in the amount
of US$7 million is proposed. The Special Account will be deposited with the
Korea Exchange Bank and this amount is expected to cover four months of
expenditures.
2.18            Disbursement of the Bank loan is scheduled over four years
and is based on the standard disbursement profile for development finance
projects in Korea. The proposed disbursement schedule is given in Annex 4.
All expenditures of NHF made after loan signing, subject to the minimum
contract size, would be eligible for Bank loan disbursement.   The loan
closing date would be June 30, 1995.
J. Monitoring and Reporting
2.19            The ongoing operations of the NHF including updated financial
statements would be provided to the Bank in the form of the regularly
published Housing Finance Bi-Monthly. The progress on policy and program
reform would be monitored through annual consultation between the Bank and
the borrower, the first to occur December 1991. MOC would mount a regular
monitoring exercise on the principal sector performance measures which would
be reviewed in detail at the annual consultations.   In addition,  the
Government has scheduled consultations with the Bank on the housing section
of the Seventh Five-Year Plan to be drafted during 1991 and the Third Ten-
Year National Physical Land Development Plan currently under preparation.
The above mentioned monitoring events would comprise a supervision plan for
the project which embodies regular and substantial technical assistance from
the Bank and its consultants. Part II of the Project Completion Report would
be prepared by the borrower and submitted to the Bank within six months of
Closing date, or within three months of receiving Part I and III from the
Bank.
K. EvMironmental Considerations
2.20            Under the Environment Conservation Act an Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) is required by the Ministry of t-he Environment (MOE)
for  every  housing  project  covering  more  than  three  hectares,  which
corresponds  to  about  400  dwelling  units  under  prevailing  densities.
Practically .L1 housing projects built at the urban fringe in Korea have an
area larger than three hectares and therefore would require an EIA.
2.21            The developer initiates the EIA by hiring an independent
specialized consultant who has to follow the guidelines and format provided
by the Ministry of the Environment. The findings of the EIA are reviewed by



- 21 -
the various bureaux of MOE and the environment consultant report together
with the comments of MOE staff are submitted to an environmental review
committee for final approval. The committee may request additional surveys or
tests to be conducted or modification of the project design. The resolutions
of the committee are binding but can be appealed.
2.22             During construction and on completion of the project, MOE
staff inspect project sites to verify conformity with plans. MOE maintains
a specialized staff for this purpose working with the local government. For
very large development projects involving industrial estates, MOE maintains
a permanent team of inspectors on the site.
2.23             Rfsettlemnt. Public housing programs, for which loan funds
will be used during the project implementation period, mainly consist of the
development of new land and the construction of housing units on such land.
The owners of the land or house owners occupying new land are protected by
the law which prescribes that adequate compensation be paid to them and that
they be relocated at the project site, if they so wish. In such cases, MOC
prepares a plan and a timetable to acquire the land in conformity with the
construction schedule and makes satisfactory provision for budgeted funds to
pay compensation for the l.nd and improvements as part of the project costs.
MOC as well as other publi: agencies responsible for public housing programs
also provide for the purchase of alternative housing at the project site, in
order to facilitate implementation while minimizing hardship to displaced
families. Experience has shown that procedures for acquiring land offering
adequate compensation and providi:.g facilities for relocation as set out in
Annex 7 are acceptable and satisfactory.
III. J_STIFICATION
3.1       A housing project in Korea is justified at this time by the
critical situation in the sector characterized by very high prices and
shortage of supply and by the Government's desire to undertakes reforms to
ameliorate these problems. The housing sector is demonstrably ineftlicient in
that the prices of houses exceed the value of inputs by a large margin.
These high prices may threaten KoreaIs reiatively good income distribution by
separating those who own real estate from those who do not and could
potentially affect the country's export competitiveness as high real estate
prices contribute to inflation and push product costs higher. As has been
seen in othe;: countries it is also possible that an inflated real estate
market could spill over into the banking and financial sectors. All of these
concerns make housing sector reform timely and urgent in the Korean context.
The Bank's perspective on similar events in other countries and the sensitive
nature of many of the sector policies can make the Bank a neutral partner in
helping design sector reforms.
3.2       The main benefits of the project would be:  (a) the 15,000 housing
units financed, (b) improvements in the effectiveness of public housing
programs as a result of reforms, (c) reduction in the relative price of
housing due to policy changes which improve the efficiency of the housing
market, and (d) institutional strengthening in MOC and its institutes. The
proceeds of the Bank loan would benefit families all of whom are in the



- 22 -
bottom half of the income distribution. Proportionally more beneficiaries
will be toward the lower end of that income group.
A. Economic Rate of Return
3.3       The principal economic benefits of the project would be to lncrease
the effectiveness of public expenditures in the housing -ector and to
increase the efficiency with which housing is produced in Korea.   The
framework for policy reform outlined in the PDS establishes the main goals as
well as the analytical basis for shaping the necessary reform programa.
Government housing programs and regulation of the housing sector are the twb
areas where reform should create significant economic benefits. There is no
accepted methodology for quantifying the benefits of this type of reform.
3.4       Even though the reforms may constitute the largest benefit of the
project, there would also be about 15,000 new lower-income units constructed
using loan proceeds. The traditional calculation of the economic return to
housing investment compares the economic cost of the inputs, properly
adjusted for transfers such as taxes, with the economic value of the finished
product - the house. In turn, the economic value of the house is composed of
the flow of services, best represented by the actual monthly rents.  The
economic rate of return for the project units tas been. estimated ez ante
using a sample of actual recent housing projects to establish the cost side
of the calculation. The benefit computation reported here is based on the
estimated market rental value which is discs.lnted to generate the present
value of the benefits.  For all units selected in the sample the present
value of the economic benefits exceeds the prt:ent value of the costs. The
rates of return vary from 10% to 16% (see Ariie.e 5).
B. Rlskt
3.5       There are no specific risks associacce- with the project. The speed
and thoroughnuess with wi,dch policy and progr.,a reforms are implemented is
always a potential risk. The problems of high h-otsing prices and poor supply
responsiveness, which are addressed in this  %zoject, are of sufficient
importance in pol.tical terms that every effort  l  be made to proceed with
the policy reforms and implementation programs    Equity issues are of
critical political significance in Korea and the -'wernment will be sensitive
to correcting the distortions in the housing setovr which adversely affect
income and wealth distribution.   The experienct iYn Korea is that once a
program is agreed, implementation has proceeded smoothly. Therefore,
agreement on the basic directions for policy reform as set out in the PDS has
been obtained.
IV.             REAIENTS    RECOLMME    ION
4.1       Agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(a) the Government will awnnally review progress in implementing the
Policy Development Statement with the Bank (para.2.19);



- 23 -
(b)   subprojects for which Bank loan funds would be dlabursed would be
selected accordlng to criteria acceptable to the Bank (para 2.13);
(c)   consultants'  qualifications,  experience and TORe for studLes
identified in the PDS would be satisfactory to the Bank and their
results made available to the Bank by December 31, 1993 for
comments (paras.2.12 & 2.14);
(d)   separate accounts would be maintained by NHF and audited by the
Government's Board of Audit and Inspection whose opinion, along
with the audit accounts (including SOEs and expenditure using
Special Account funds), would be submitted to the Bank no later
than nine months after the end of the fiscal year (para.2.16);
(a)   A Project Completion Report would be submitted by MOC within six
months of the Closing date. (para.4.1(e)).
4.2       With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$100 million, for a term of 15 years, including a grace
period of five years, at the standard variable interest rate. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Korea.



A£mix I
Page 1
KOREA
HOUSING PROJECT
PQlicy Development Statement
Introduction
The Government's main policy objectives for the housing sector are set out
in this statement. The Government's basic oolicv obiectives for the sector
are to facilitate the efficient provision of housing services for all
Koreans and to assist those lower-income families who are unable to afford
reasonable housing. These two major goals of housing policy are not seen
as inconsistent (or conflicting) objectives but rather as distinct but
interrelated obligations  of the Government.    An  improved regulatory
environment which facilitates efficient production of housing services -
from both the new and the existing stock of housing units: for owners as
well as renters - will enhance access to housing for all Koreans. Efficient
housing markets also increase the effectiveness of public programs designed
to help the poor; they permit many more households to secure reasonable
housing for the same amount of resources, or for an existing target group
to be helped with a much lower budget.
A key component of the strategy to implement the broad goals outlined above
is the adoption of short-term monitorable targets to aid policy-makers and
public officials responsiLle for implementing these programs. The selection
of indicators to monitor progress toward these targets reflects the
perception of policy-makers that broad reforms are needed to restore
efficiency and equity to the sector.
First among the housing sector problems identified is the high level of
prices. The ratio of median house price to median household income in Korea
is more than six times, which is among the highest of any market economy.
This ratio is selected as the grimary index of overall sector Rerformance
because it measures the influence of a wide range of government
interventions on the housing and land markets.
The performance of the rental market has been particularly poor with
continued high levels of crowding and prices rising even faster than house
values. The second indicator is, therefore, a separate rent-to-income ratio
which measures general progress toward expanding and liberalizing the rental
market.
High land prices are another major issue. The present system of converting
raw land for residential use in Korea presently results in price changes
which range up to ten times and more which is much higher than that of other
countries. Therefore, the third indicator selected, the ratio of raw to
residentially zoned land, is designed to measure the success of regulatory
reform in increasing the supply of land zoned for residential purposes.



Page 2
In any buslness, including housing, there ls a return (profit) to the
entrepreneur for lassembllng" the lnputs. Too high a return ls evldence of
uncompetltlve condltions whlch may be due to barrlers to entry or excesslve
regulation for which successful suppliers must be compensated. Therefore,
the fourth indlcator compares productlon costs to market value of the
completed housing unlt.   The purpose of thls index is to monitor the
progress of reforms designed to make the housing industry more competltive
and more efficient, and the degree to which shortages are decllnlng.
Finally, there is concern that the level and incidence of explicit and
implicit subsidies in the housing sector may not have resulted in effective
assistance for those who are most in need of he?*. Therefore, a f=tfh
indictor identifies the target group in terms of their income, the maximum
amount of subsidy to be provided and establishes a timetable for providing
assistance to them.
In summary, the five key indicators selected to monitor overall progress in
reforming housing policies are designed to measure:
(1)   the reduction in the ratio of median housing price to median
household income,
(2)   the reduction in rents relative to incomes,
(3)   the reduction in the ratio of the price of adjacent raw and
residentially zoned land,
(4)   the reduction of the gap between factor cost and the market
value of housing, and
(5)   the rate of progress in assisting the target households in the
bottom half of the income distribution.
The policles enunciated ln this statement and the reforms suggested herein
are part of a strategy to review and reform housing policy. As the Sixth
Five-Year Plan (1988-92) draws to a conclusion, past programs and policies
are being reconsidered and new directions being set in the forthcoming
Seventh Five-Yeae Plan and Third Ten Year National Physical Development Plan
1991-2001.
The content and the priorities of the new policy directions being adopted
under this project are embodied in the five key indicators mentioned above.
The specific policies, programs and regulations to be reformed have been
grouped as follows:
(1)   Government Housing Programs
(2)   Housing Regulation
(3)   Land Supply System
(4)   Other Housing Related Policies



Page 3
1.    Government Housing Programs (GHPs) are the vehicle through which
assistance to lower income households is provided. Their efficiency and
effectiveness are critical to those households disadvantaged by the high and
rising housing prices.
1.1   Qkjgct±lvs
(a)   to assist low-income households to improve their housing
(b)   to restrLct subsidies to lower half of income distribution
(c)   to limit the maximum subsidy in relation to recipients' lncome
(d)   to increase economic efficiencyl' of GHPs.
1.2   Implementation Plan:
(a)   a baseline program evaluatio I will be undertaken for HOC
which, inter alia,for each government housing program:
(i)   identifies the target income range of beneficiaries for
each GHP
(ii)  establishes the income eligibility, the maximum amount of
assistance to one household, and the pattern of
assistance among program beneficiaries.
(iii) measures the subsidy in each program from three distinct
points of view:
- for government (as a financial & economic cost)
- for suppliers (public and private)
- for beneficiaries (households)
(iv) measures the economic efficiency of each GHP.
This evaluation would be completed by December 1993.
(b)   a plan to reform each GHP  (based on the above program
evaluation) would be established by June 1994 which adjusts, in
accord with established policies for housing program efficiency
and equity.
(c)   the griority areas for program reform to assist low-income
households are:
(i)   rental housing
(ii) direct government finance (through NHF)
(iii) direct government supply of housing.
,L/ Tho ooonomic efolenoy of a GHP oan be evaluaded as the ratio of the recipient valuation of th beno   y receive
compad to tir market value.
7I Tem d Reference In Anretx 6a.



Page 4
2.    Housing: Regullatosl   affect the type, timing, location and the cost of
new housing for both the private and public sectors. The emphasis will be
to reform the physical regulations and the price controls which distort the
incentives to suppliers or buyers.
2.1   Objectives:
(a)   to facilitate efficient production of housing,
(b)   to  facilitate  competitive  input  markets  (land,  finance,
construction),
(c)   to encourage efficient use of existing housing and serviced
land.
2.2   Implementation Plan:
(a)   a review of the urban residential regulatory frameworkd1 will
be undertaken for MOC to assess each major housing related
regulation in terms of:
(i)   the intended purpose of the regulation,
(ii) the value of the costs and benefits of each regulation,
(iii) the distribution of benefits and costs.
This review would be completed by December 1993.
(b)   a program to reform housing regulations will be established by
June 1994 which seeks to:
(i)   reduce the cost of regulation,
(ii) increase the flexibility by moving to performance
regulations rather than physical regulations.
(iii) rationalize incentives created by the various regulations.
(c)   the Rriority areas for regulatory reform are:
(i)   rationalization  of  regulations  affecting  the  rental
industry,
(ii) liberalization of direct controls on the allocation of
new housing,
(iii) increased competition in the construction and development
industries and encouragement of a diversified supply,
(iv) greater reliance on indirection regulation such as
taxation to improve se:tor efficiency.
1i Term of Reference In Annex 6La



Annex-1
Page 5
3.    The Land SuMRRlv SYtem is the most critical constraint on the housing
market and the leading cause of high housing prices.  The strategy for
policy development is to increase the reliance on market for-es in
identifying and allocating land for residential development.
3.1   Objectives:
(a)   to create a responsive supply of land for residential use which
implies a "market" for undeveloped and developed new
residential land; a "market" requires:
(i)   competition among developers (private and public),
(ii) competition among land sellers.
(b)   to  reduce,  over  time,  the  ratio  between  the  price  of
residential and agricultural land at the periphery of cities.
(c)   to permit  the redevelopment of existing urban  land when
economically justified.
(d)   to increase the spatial efficiency of Korean cities through the
use of market land price differentials reflecting locational
advantages.
3.2   Imilementation Plan:
(a)   a review of the legal and regulatory framework1' which governs
the conversion of raw land into residential plots and which
determines the floor space which could be built on it; the
review would include:
(i)   the quantification of the main legal and regulatory
parameters governing land supply,
(ii)  locational analysis of the supply of land in major
cities,
(iii) a projection of the area of land for which conversion
permit will be granted for the next 10 years for the
major cities of the country,
(iv)  an estimate of the effect of the new land supply on
densities and land prices.
This review would be completed by December 1993.
(b)   A groaram of reform for land regulatlon would be established by
June 1994 which would aim at:
(i)   increasing the amount of residential land and floor space
put on the market in urban areas,
(ii)  increasing competition among land owners and public and
private developers,
ji Term of Rofernoo In Annex eb.



Page 6
(iii) decentralizing and streamlining the decision making
process concerning land conversion and site planning.
(c)   The priority for sRocific refglrs would include the creation of
new  regulatory  tools  concerning  land  development,  in
particular:
(i)   introduction of a new zoning status for "potential'
residential land which would become a pool of land within
which rezoning would be automatic once infrastructure has
been provided,
(d)   development of new planning and cost recovery techniques
for infrastructure which would permit developers to "buy"
the infrastructure that they need to develop an eligible
piece of land,
(e)   redefinition of administrative role for land planning
giving more responsibilities to local authorities.
4.    Other Housing Related Policies
There are policies and regulations which do not directly relate to housing
policy and, therefore, are outside the statutory purview of MOC but which,
nevertheless, have an important impact on the housing sector. Each of these
will be reviewed as an integral part of the analysis of housing regulations
and a housing perspective on important financial and fiscal issues will be
developed.  HOC intends to raise the following issuesl/ in the appropriate
forum to be considered by the relevant authorities:
(a)   the taxation of real estate, including capital gains from
property sales;
(b)   the further development of the housing finance system; and
(c)   strengthening of the real estate industry.
Da Dild euggedons for eah am ar availabl In background prolet preparaton ppers.



Page 1
HOUSING PROJECT
National Housing Fund
Programs and Financial Statements
1.    The National Housing Fund (NHF), the Government's social housing window,
was established as a distinct program in 1981 when the National Housing
Construction Loan Account was separated from Korea Housing Bank (KHB) to
distinguish its social objectives and criteria from KHB's more market-oriented
lending activities and to permit better policy guidance to NHF.  Government
policy direction and management are provided by the Housing Bureau of the
Ministry of Construction (MOC/HB).
2.    The purpose of NHF is to provide long-term mortgage financing to lower-
income "homeless" households (those not owning their own house, tenants occupying
a shared unit or households displaced by disaster), using funds raised by the
Government from the general public (two types of compulsory purchase bonds,
subscription deposits from future borrowers, and lotteries) and public entities
(budgetary contributions, public organization deposits). NHF finances housing
projects of the Korea National Housing Corporation, local governments and private
developers which, in the case of housing for sale, are marketed by the borrowing
developers to individual households whereupon the construction financing is
converted to long-term individual NHF mortgage loans. In the case of housing Zor
rental, the owner/developer's construction finance is converted to long-term
mortgage finance upon completion, provided the units remain rental housing.
3.    NHF is administered for MOC/HB by KHB through its NHF Department which has
a total of 43 staff in four divisions (planning, fund-raising, loans and
management).     Staff  of  the  NHF  Department  carry  out  the  day-to-day
responsibilities associated with the housing programs noted above, including the
evaluation of individual private developer projects, the administration of the
various sources of funds, and the processing, management and repayment collection
of the 850,000 individual NHF mortgage loans made from 1981 to 1990. They also
maintain NHF's accounts. The performance of KHB staff designated to work on NHF
in carrying out these responsibilities has been very good. Loan collection has
been excellent, with problem loans (six months or more in arrears) consistently
less than 0.2% of portfolio. KHB is compensated for these services by a fee of
0.88% of NHF loans outstanding in 1990 and the fee ratio is expected to further
decline in the future.
4.    NHF's separate accounts permit an independent financial analysis.   In
general, NHF has been well managed and is financially sound. Major funding
sources have been structured to be positively related to the demand for loans
which reduces the term transformation problem (the mismatch of maturities of
assets and liabilities) inherent in housing finance. NHF has had any liquidity
problems as a result. NHF has grown rapidly since its inception in 1981, with
total assets (almost entirely mortgage loans and short-term deposits) reaching
W6,096 billion in 1990. NHF's main funding sources are as follows:



Annex 2
Page 2
Type-1 housing bonds, a below-market instrument (3%) whose purchase is
required to obtain various (mostly related to construction and
registration of land) licenses and permits.
Type-2 housing bonds, a below-market instrument (3%) whose purchase is
required when individuals wish to purchase certain types of new housing.
Subscription deposits, below-market savings accounts (2.5% to 8% depending
upon the maturity) which give the right to borrow from NHF and acquire
certain types of allocated new apartments in the future.
5.    The  capital  base,  which  is  composed  of  the  Government's  direct
contribution, retained earnings and annual lottery profits earmarked for NHF, is
relatively strong, having reached W748 billion in 1989. Until the end of 1989
government contributions had been the single most important source of capital.
From 1989 net income from operations of the fund became the primary source of
capital amounting to W131 billion in 1989. The capital base is important because
of the term transformation inherent in housing finance: NHF's assets are almost
entirely 20-year graduated payment mortgage (GPM) loans while Type-1 bonds,
subscription deposits, pension funds (public organization deposits) and other
funding sources (except Type-2 bonds which are for 20 years) have terms of 5
years or less.   This tends to limit current assets in relation to current
liabilities generated by the funding sources, as indicated by the current ratio
which has averaged only 0.56 during 1986-89.  But this has not proved to be
problem as NHF's main sources of funds, Type-i & 2 bonds and subscription
deposits, have been quite buoyant and net income through the operation of the NHF
is in increasing rapidly.   In addition, NHF mortgage loans are based on an
variable rate instrument which reduces the interest rate risk.
6.    Profitability is currently substantial.  NHF has low-cost sources of funds
while majority of its portfolio is in loans currently yielding 10%. The average
interest expense during the period 1987-89 was 6.6% and average interest income
was 8.8%, generating an average spread of 2.2%. Since 1984 the spreads have been
sufficient cover these costs plus a contribution to Capital. Return on total
assets (net income/total assets) is increasing rapidly *very year, reaching 2.2%
in the year 1989. The ratio is estimated to increase in the future because no
dividend is paid out of net income but instead is contributed to capital.
7.    From 1991 to 1995, NHF plans to finance 1,110,000 housing units, increasing
its annual rate from 200,000 units in 1991 to 245,000 units in 1995.  This
program will require the mobilization of W15,075 billion which will be mainly
raised from Type-1 Bonds, Subscription deposits and Net income of the NHF. As
NHF's Net Income increases each year and is not paid out in dividends it will
become a more important source of Equity. High interest rate sources, like the
Fund bonds, and sources involving foreign exchange risk, like IBRD loans, are
expected to decline in importance.
8.    In the future, NHF's total assets are expected grow continuously reaching
W17.576 billion in 1995 and equity also will reach W3.094 billion then.  The



Annex 2
Page 3
equity ratio (equity/total assets) is expected to be 17.6% in 1995 up from 12.3%
in 1989. This means NHF will be a more financially healthy organization in spite
of the mismatch of maturity of assets and liabilities. Current ratio will reach
0.99 in 1995 as collection of loans increases year by year.   Prciitbility will
improve during the period with the interest rate spread improving tD an annual
average of 3.1%.   As a result net income will reach W555 billion per year
resulting in return on total assets ratio 3.3%. Regarding all financial figures,
NHF will continue to improve its financial position in the future uniess there
is an fundamental change in government housing policy.
9.          The main types of loans presently made by NHF are:
Progpram Nome            Tenmure    &Rate         Purpose
Labor Welfare      Own         10%          To firms to house their employees
Employee Rental   Rent          3%          To firms to construct rental housing
for employees.
Long-term Rental  Rent          3%          To  construction  companies  to  be
rented for 5 years then sold to
occupants -to be discontinued at end
1991.
Small-size Units  Own          10%          To low-income households.
Multi-family Unit Own          10%          To low-income households in apartment
buildings.
Agricultural       Own          7.5%        To rural households



Page 4
KOREFA: Nation  1 liu sin
Table 1: Baste Data and Assuptfons for financlot Forecat for NOF            (UN1;Z 1000)
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
1) POPULATION          41184  41575  41975  42380  489  4202   43619   44039   44464   493
2)  HOUSEHOLDS          9037   9320   9612   9913  10224  10545   10876   1121?   11568   11931
3) PERSONS per HH        4.6    4.5    4.4    4.3    4.2    4.1         4.0      3.9      3.8      3.8
4) NO. OF HOUSING UNIT  6303   6449   6670   6968   7419   7755    8106    86            8822    9206
5) HOUSING SUPPLY RATIO  69.7X   69.2X   69.4X   70.3X   72.6x  73.5X    A.sx    75.5X   76.3X    77.21
HOUSING CONST. BY FUNODING SOURCE
6)  -H.H.F               153    103    102    110    243    200         215      225      225      245
7)  -OTHER PUBLIC W/O NHF                        52      60     70       80       50       50      50
8)  -PRIVATE             135    141    215    300    397    250         250      280      280      300
9) TOTAL HOUSE CONST     288    244    317    462    700    520         545      555      SS5      595
10) NilEW LOAN By N.N.F(Nillion)1145020  959351 1201787 2414000 2241750 2513700 2708843 2844285 3267281
11) LOAN AWOUNT PER HOUSEHOLD  11117   9405  10925   9934   11209   11692   12039   12641   13336
12) EXCHANGE RATE(USS/   861    792    684    680    710    710         710      710      710     710
13) INFLATION    CPI    2.8X    3.0X    7.11   5.7X    9.80    5.0X    5.0X     5.0X     5.0X    5.0X
WI             0.5    2.71   1.5X   9.5X    5.01    5.0X       5.0X    5.0X     5.01
14) N.H.F LENDING PLAN - NUMBER OF UNIITS
Labor welfare                            0       0      40     50       60       40       40      40
Employee rental                          0       0      20     30       50       20       20       20
Long-term rental                        47      32      58      25
Owmer-occupfed small-sIze housing       49      27      32      55      60      120      1e       140
Ower-occupied multifmily heusing         0      45      b8      30      30       30                30
Agricultural housing                     6       6       5      10      15       15       15       15
TOTAL                     102    110    243    200       215      225      225      245
15) N.H.F PLAN - LOA AMNT PER HOUSEHOLD (Million Won)
Labor welfare    Interest ra    10X                   12.0   12.6    13.2    13.9    14.6    15.3
Eptloyee rental  as  12/90       3X                   12.0   12.6    13.2    13.9    14.6    15.3
Long-term rental                 3X                   12.0   12.6    13.2    13.9    14.6    15.3
Ownr-occfed sell-size hsog    10                      11.0   11.6    12.1    12.7    13.4    14.0
Owmer-occupfed multiffamly hso   10                   7.0    7.4      7.7      8.1      S.5      8.9
Agricultural housing             8X                    6.0    6.3      6.6      6.9      7.3      7.7
Vefghted Interest Rate on New Loans: >v   7.3X   7.8x    8.1=    9.2X    9.2X    9.3X
16) N.H.F PLAN - LENDING BY CATEGORY (Billion Won)
Labor welfare                                          480    630      794      556      583     613
Enployee rental                                        240    378      662      278      292     306
Long-term rental                                       696    315        0        0        0       0
Owner-occufed small-aiz  housing                       352    635      728    1528    1604    1965
Omer-occupied multifamfly housinr                      616    221      232      243      25S      268
Agrfcultural housing                                    30     63       99      104      109      115
TOTAL                                   2414   2242    2514    2709    2844    3267
17) N.H.F PLAN - LENDING BY CATEGORY (Percentage Share)
Labor welfare                                          20%    283      32X      21X      21X     194
Ewployee rental                                        10X    17X       26X     10X      10X      9X
Long-term rental                                       29X    14X      0        OX       Os      OX
Ower-occupied small-sfze housfng                       1SX    28X       29X     S6X      S63     60X
Owner-occupfed miutffamfly housing                     26      10X       9X      9X       9X      8X
Agricultural housing                                    1X      3X      4X       4X       4X       4X
TOTAL                                    100X   100X    1001    1003    100X    1003



&=na2
Page 5
Tbtle 2: Balance Sheet
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
(ASSETS)
CURRENT ASSETS
Tim deposits          26000  30000 201000 76983  250000  120000  500000  700000  100000  10000Q0
Special ccomt             0       7       1       0
Current loan         2456.2  136327 172216 472  949862 1286871  1601836  1917670 22273  2520517
Accounts in KItH        150   7981  20873  45362  -99503 -272526  -400679  -43w99  -43877  -385534
Accrued incme         35581   474   50684  7?867 104606  117780  151065  206792  237454  270675
Unsettled paent          54    119       74      39   809   96049         0        0        0        0
.......  .......................... ................................. 
SUB-TOTAL             307427 221468 444848 1399613 1293015 1350173  1852224 239356  3020810 3405657
...... ........... ........, ........ ......                  . .. ... .....
L/T LOANS            28320 350883 4014862 4818916 6787916 80260  9813840 11305472 12701941 14305513
INVESTMENTS             1415    129       63      25
OTHER RECEIVABLE          31    1590    244      116
DEFERRED ASSETS         5109   3406   1703
ASSETS TOTAL         3144602 375376 4461720 6216672 8080931 9630434 11666064 13699036 15U2751 17711170
(LIABILITY A EWITY)
CURRENT LIABILITY
Accounts paydble      10401   12236  14407  13762  13762  13762    13762   13762    13762   13762
Unsettled receipts       63    121    476    530    530    530          530      530      530      530
Subscription deposit 137162  114069  164866 118714 28776 501836  736668  967764  1175349  1175349
Pubilc Org deposits  101900  39000  34757  37435   7462  28674   32953             0        0        0
Accrued expenses      52597  43966  51172  96034  96034  96034   96034   96034   96034   96034
Revenue rec'd advance  4454   7856   5168   6052   5052   6052    6052    6052    6052    6052
Income taxes payable    167    163    244    201    201    201          201      201      201      201
Credit control fund  248960 270518  254130 330192 712192 666991   738355  789563  825105  936105
Type-I bond          233660 2M19  285736 299021  283922 334128  501571   612011   843392  925594
Fund bond               167       0       0 300000       0       0        0        0        0        0
Construction loan               156       8
18RD loans             6614   7384   5929   5695  15000  15000   14308   14308   14308   14308
NOF loans                 0       0       0  20994 357200        0        0        0        0        0
Liability allow-Type- 151112  48390  32836  27408  78400  78400   87559  100628   126491  146928
-Furd bond      0       0       0  98671        0      0        0        0        0        0
Income received                 179      16      5       5       5        5        5        5        5
................. ...............................................
SUB-TOTAL             947257 843559 849747 1354714 165S546 1741613 2227"97 2600878 3101228 3314868
....................................................................................
FIXED LIABILITIES
Subscription deposft 232351 130282 242796 982575 1659403 2170412 2497231  2646108 2643254  2699024
Type-I bond         1114882 1193899 1422103 1768122 2333812 2925276 3439632 3941452 4317043 4727058
Type-2 bond          317636 332999 370414 459706 770706 1097256  140134  1800155 2178177  2575101
Fund bond                 0 300000 300000         0       0      0        0        0        0        0
Construction loan       163       8
IBRD loas             58363  121227  141034  140157 124852  135398  146893  148086  135079  122072
NOF loans                 0       0  130000 339006        0      0        0        0        0        0
P&blic Org deposits   63757  72192  44897  36136  61627  32953            0        0        0        0
Liability allowance
Type-I bond         113305  136m   159115  194386 209517 279917  372373  484112  600468  7386
Type-2 bond          19112  29371   40878  53799  74249  102268  140329  188934  248609  319906
Fuid bond                019240 56733            0      0       0        0        0        0        O
SW-TOTAL             1919569 2337995 2907970 3973667 5234166 6743480 6036593 9206846 10122630 11167030
---------................... ;;..... ;.. ................................................ 
DEFERRED LIABILITIES               0  24662   18511   1234    6170
LAIIYTTL 2 .86385.323954127003692.1249110741235148...................................9
LIABILITY TOTAL      265  38554  1729   37l 71055  4l6  1026459 118D9724 1323                      1481898



Annex 2
Page 6
CAPITAL EQUITY
Goveranent contributi 183000  283000 313000 343000 343000 343000  343000   343000   343000   343000
Mattl hag lottery fun 81542  92844  104052  134710  169710 204710  244710   284710  329710  374710
Retained earing       -18168   13232   54977  139269 270845  4,3168   591461   813764  1261601  1826183
Adjusted baelance        -83    -159     -21      -83
Net Income             31484   41906  84313  131663  192323  128292   222303  447837   564582   685380
.  *........... .. ................................. ............................................................ ....................
EQUITY TOTAL           277775 430823  556321  748559 975878 1139171  1401474  1889311  2496893  3229273
...~~--------  ------                        ----------  ------- ...... ............ ............................ 
TOTAL LIABS.& EOTY   3144601 3612377 4338720 6095671 8080931 9630434 11666064 13699036 15722751 17711170
1) CURRENT RATIO        32.5X  26.3X   52.4X 103.3K  69.6X 77.5X   83.1X   92.0K    97.4X   102.7K
1.1)Current asset    307427 221468 444848 1399613 1293015 1350173  1852224  2393564  3020810  3405657
1.2)Current Liabls   947257 843559 849747 1354714 1858546 1741613  2227997  2600878  3101228 33148U
2) EQUITY RATIO          8.8K   11.9X  12.8K   12.3X  12.1X  11.8X    12.0%    13.8K    15.9X   18.2X
2.1)Equlty total      277775 430823  556321  748559 975878 1139171  1401474  1889311  2498893  3229273
2.2) Total assets   3144601 3612377 4338720 6095671 8080931 9630434 11666064 13699036 15722751 17711170
3) DEBT RATIO           91.2K  88.1K  87.2X  87.7K  87.9X  88.2X   88.0K   86.2%   84.1X   81.8X
3.1)Totat debt       2866826 3181554 3782399 5347112 7105053 8491263 10264590 11809724 13223858 14481897
3.2) Total assets   3144601 3612377 4338no 6095671 8080931 9630433 11666064 13699035 157n2750 17711170
4) DEBT/EQUITY RATIO  1032.1X n8.5K  679.9%  714.3K  n8.1K  745.4K  732.4K   625.1X  529.2X  448.5K
4.1)Total debt       2866826 3181554 3782399 5347112 7105053 8491263 10264590 11809724 13223858 14481898
4.2)Equfty total      277775  430823 556321  748559 975878 1139171  1401474  1889311  2498893 3229273
Table 3: Income Statement
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991     1992     1993     1994     1995
,....................................................................................
OPERATING INOME
(Interest income)
Time deposits           5910    1295   7764   67309  104698  37000   62000   120000   170000  200000
Special account          127      37      64       3
Other deposfts                     1       1        1
Loans                 241018  274995 310977  356182 478500 538752  691007   945917  1086172  1238131
KN8 account               81     298     142      141
Miscellaneous              4       6      14       5
,..................... ................................................. ................................................................. ..
Total                  247140 276632  318962 423641  583198  575752   753007  1065917  1256172  1438131
OPERATING EXPENSE
(interest expense)
Subscriptfon deposits  33177  25091   24446   56380  113674  162328  207543   240633   261179  270333
Type-1 bond           108012  96729  87559  100628  126491  146928   180015   212367   242847  270327
Type-2 bond             8192   10273   11539   13021   20301   28019   38061    48604    59675    71299
Fund bond                  0   19241   37493   41937   20100       0        0        0         0        0
atot lfund berrowfng      28      17       7       0       0       0        0        0         0        0
1880 toans              5085    6416   10527   10170   9999   10158    10935    11386    10970    10055
MOF lons                   0       0    2568   16239   30688   18176        0         0        0        0
Pubtlc org deposits    6998   13630   9915    7615    6965    6536       4729      1648        0        0
Comoftuent chargas       .28    1843     177      51       0       0        0        0         0        0
...................... I .......................................................
Total                  161620  173240  184231  246041  328218  372146   441283   514637  5746n     622014
..................    ..................................................................................................... 
GRO6S PROFIT            83520  10339  13471  177600 254980  203606  31174   551280  681500  816117
ADMINISTRATION FEE EXP 43903  45537  52567  51942   56114  66372    80478   94501   107977   121795
OPERATING PFIT          41617  57855  82164  1256     1        13724   231245  45677    573524   694322
NON-OPERATING INCOME
Miscellaneous            455     514     703     619        0       0



Page 7
MNO-OPERATING EXPENSES
Housing Guarantee fund             0    3739   4404    6247   8542       8542     8542     8542      8542
Coisultant fee            30     113     258     125     100     200      200      200       200      200
Overseas training         75       8      61      93     196    200       200      200       200      200
Foreign exchange loss  8781   14684       61
Foreign exchange adJ    1702    1702   -5377  -9991
Subtotal               10588   16507  -1258   -5369   6543   8942        8942    8942      8942      8942
ORDINARY PROFIT         31484   41862  84125  131646  192323  128292  222303   447837   564SU2   685380
REAL ESTATE DISPOSAL               44     188       17
EXTRAORDINARY EXPENSES
.............................. ... .....,...... ........... ............. ............................ 
NET INCOIE              31484   41906  84313  131663  192323  128292   222303   447837   564582   685380
Tcbte 4: Cash Flow Statement
1986    1987   1988    1989    1990    1991      1992     1993     1994     1995
.. ................ ............................................... ...................................................
(INFLOW OF CASH)
Net income                      4?906   84313  131663  192323  128292   222303   447837   564582   685380
Goverrment contribution        100000   30000  30000        0       0        0        0         0        0
Lottery fund                    11302   11208   30658  35000   35000   40000    40000   45000   45000
Credit control fund             21558  -16388   76062 382000  -45201    71364    51208   35542   111000
Subscription deposit          -125162  163311  693627 845900 725059   561651   37W94   204710   55770
Type-I bond                    144876  214421  359304  550591  641670  681800   612259   606972   492217
Type-2 bond                     15363  37415   89292 311000 326550   342878  360021   378022   396924
Pubtlc org deposit             -54465  -31!38  -6083   -4482   -7462   -28674   -32953          0        0
Fund bond                      299833       0       0 -300000       0        0        0        0        0
HOF loan                            0  130000  230000   -2800 -357200        0        0         0        0
IBRD loan                       63634   18352   -1111   -6000   10546    10803     1193   -13007   -13007
Liabilfty allowance
Typ&-1 bond                  -7mo    4786   29841   66123   70400   101615   124808   142219   143836
Type-2 bond                   10259   1150   12921   20450   28019   38061    48604    59675    71299
F-und bond                    19240  37493   41938  -98671        0        0        0        0        0
. .... ...... .... _........ ................ ... ..... .... _................
INFLOW TOTAL                  471094 694880 1718112 1991434 1555674  2041800  2032971  2023715  1988419
.......................................... ..................................................................................
(OUTFLOW OF CASH)
Increase of loan              568848  541968 1111200 2439500 1829354  1848547  1807464  1706032  1896856
OUTFLOW TOTAL                  568848 541968 1111200 2439500 1829354  1848547  1807464  1706032  1896856
INCREASECDECREASE)             -97754  152912 606912 -448066 -273680   193254   225508   317683   91563
OEURNET ITEM ADJUSTMENT
Accrued income                -11453   -3650  -27183  -26741  -13172   -33285    55727   -30662   -33221
Unsettled psyuent                -65      45      35  -88010  -10000    98049        0         0        0
deferred assets                 1703    1703    1703       0       0        0        0         0        0
Accounts payable                1835    2171    -645       0       0        0        0        0         0
Unsettled recefpts                58    355       54       0       0        0        0         0        0
Accrued expenses               -8631    7206  44862        0       0        0        0         0        0
Revenue rcvd advance            3404   -2690    884        0       0        0        0        0         0
Income received                  179    -163     -11       0       0        0        0        0        0
Deferred liabilities               0   24682  -6171   -6170  -6171    -6170           0        0        0
Other                         122555    1321      32 -122862       0        0        0         0        0
NET INCREASE(DECREASE)          11831  183892 620472 -691848 -303023   251847   169780   287022    58343
DEFERRED CASH                   26150   37981  221873 842345  150497  -152526   99321   269101   556123
................................................... i  . ..................
CASH                            37981  221873 842345  150497 -152526   99321   269101   556123  614466
............................................................................
C CASHI =TIME DEPOSIT + ACCOUNTS IN KHB 



Page 8
1) AVERAGE EARNING RATE           8.8X   8.5X   8.6X   8.9X   7.1X          7.5S     8.8X     8.9X    9.0X
1.1)lnterest Incone           276432 318962 423641  583198  575752   75300?  1065917  1256172  1438131
1.2)Average loan & tlm  depos3128947 3769270 4949509 6520328 8147863 10098732 12155451 14118824 15996997
2) AVERAGE COST RATE              9.0K    8.2K    7.8X   7.4"    6.7X    6.5X    6.4X    6.4X    6.3X
2.1)1nterost expensoe          73240  184231  246041  328218  37216   441283   514637   574672   622014
2.2)Ackinistratfon fee expens 45537  52567  51942   56114   66372    80478    94501   107977   121795
2.3)Average borrowtngs       2438695 2876638 3825051 5204666 6571351  8025161  9469647 10718253 11772554
3) AVERAGE NARGIN. 1)-2)         -0.1K   0.2K    0.8K    1.6X   0.4X        1.0X    2.3K      2.5K     2.7K
4) ADMINISTRATION EXPENSE RATIO  1.35X  1.34X  1.10X  0.86K   0.77K    0.77X   0.M7K    0.77X   0.77x
5) NO OF TINES INTEREST EARNED   1.33    1.45    1.51    1.61    1.37      1.52      1.89     2.00     2.12
6) RETURN ON TOTAL ASSET          1.2K    2.1X   2.5K    2.7X    1.4%       2.1X    3.5K      3.8X    4.1K
6.1)Net Incof e                41906  84313  131663  192323  128292   222303   447837   5645b2   685380
6.2)Average total asset      3378489 3975549 5217196 7088301 8855683 10648249 12682550 14710893 16716961
7) RETURN ON EQUITY              11.8K   17.1X  20.2X  22.3X   12.1X    17.5K    27.2K    25.7X   23.9K
7.1)Met Incoe                  41906  8m!13  131663  192323  128292   222303   447837   564582   685380
7.2)Average equity            354299 493572  652440  862219 1057524  1270322  1645393  2194102  2864083
8) COST RATIO                    79.1X   74.2K   70.3X  65.9Q   76.2X   69.31    57.1X   54.3X   51.7X
8.1)1nterest Income           276632 318962 423641  583198  575752  753007  1065917  1256172  1438131
8.2)1nterest expense          173240  184231  246041  328218  37n146   441283   514637   574672   622014
8.3)Administration fee expense 45537   52567  51942   56114   65372    80478    94501   107977   121795



Page 1
KOREA
HOUgSING PROJECT
Criteria for SubRroject Selection
Criteria are those in force as of April 1, 1991, and are subject to change.
Eligible Developers
Central Government Ministries
Local Governments
Korea National Housing Corporation (KNHC)
Private Developers
- registered housing contractor&
- registered housing cooperatives
- employers (more than 300 employees)
- special cases (e.g., solar housing)
Project Tvoe and Size
Sale Housing It
- minimum 20 units
Rental Housing
= mLnimum 5 units
- minimum 5 years as rental property
Cooperative Housing
- minimum 20 units
Housing for Displaced Households
(designation by local government required)
- typically replacement of single units lost to demolition or
disaster
Unit Size
Maximum Size
- 60 sq m (18 py):   applies to all NHF-financed developers and
projects although lower limits can be set for individual programs
or developers; a unit mix involving a range of sizes is also set
for each program so that the average unit size per project is less
,I IBRD loan proceeds would be used to support this program.



Armex 3
Page 2
Final Beneficiary Income and Housing Status
.Sale Housing
- purchasers must demonstrate that they have not owned a house for
at least one year
- for units less than 40 sq m (l1 py) priority is given to purchasers
with incomes less than the regional urban average income
Rental Housing
- tenants must demonstrate that they have rented shared accommodation
for at least one year
- for units less than 50 sq m (15 py) priority is given to tenants
with incomes less than the regional urban average income
Cooperative Housing, Displaced Households
- prospective participant can not currently own a house
Develoger Proiect Criteria
Central Government, Local Government, KNHC
- housing development programs are agreed annually with MOC/HB and
global criteria estsb is ed for regional distribution, project/unit
size and composition, etc.
- individual projects are then processed by KHB subject only to
financial review
Private Developers
p private developers and their projects are evaluated by KHB and
rated according to a detailed points system considering factors
such as financial position and financial and technical performance
of the developer, and financial and technical aspects of the
proposed project
.
a



AMX4
Page 1
HOUSING PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(USS Million)
Bank's   Year and                                        Disbursement Profile
Fiscal   Semester            Disbursements                       Korea       Korea
Year     Ending         Semester    Cumulative    Project    (General)    (IDF)
1992    30-Dec-91          2.0           2.0         2.08         2.0%        2.0%
30-Jun-92          6.0          8.0          8.0%         8.0%       8.0%
1993    30-Dec-92         16.0          24.0        24.0%        23.0%       24.0%
30-Jun-93        20.0          44.0         44.0%        38.0%      44.0%
1994    30-Dec-93         19.0          63.0        63.0%        38.0%       63.0%
30-Jun-94        19.0          82.0         82.0%       69.0%       82.0%
1995    30-Dec-94         13.0          95.0        95.0%        80.0%       95.0%
30-Jun-95          5.0        100.0        100.0%        92.0%     100.0%



page 1
HOUSING PROJECT
Economic AnAlysis
1.          The principal economic benefit- .f the proposed project would be
those flowing from a more efficient housing sector as a result of an improved
policy making and implementation process. Public sector programs to assist
the poor would also be implemented at a reduced fiscal cost and would deliver
a more effective benefit to a more tightly targeted group if reforms are
successful. Neither of these benefits can easily be measured ex ante with
any accepted methodology. The proceeds of the Bank loan would be used to
finance the construction and purchase of housing for lower income households
which is, however, subject to quantifiable analysis, reported below.
2.          It is recognized in Korea that housing and land markets are
highly distorted at present.   These distortions can be seen in the high
relative price of land and housing and in the rapidly rising prices. The
implications of such distortions touch macroeconomic management (eg. the
government's ability to liberalize the financial system), microeceonomic
efficiency (eg. the cost of wages for workers) and welfare economics (eg. the
distribution of wealth and income) concerns in Korea. Although it is not
possible to precisely link improved sector policies with a specific level of
economic benefit, the order of magnitude of the prospective gain can be
estimated from cross-country data. If, over time, Korea were able to reduce
the ratio of housing prices to household income by a multiple of one (ie.
from presently estimated levels of 6-10 to 5-9) the same level of housing
ser-rices could consume as much as 1-2% less of GDP.
3.          High priced real estate poses longer term risk to the economy and
distorts decisions in other sectors. To the extend that the financial system
is collateralized by "over-valued" real estate it may be at risk in the
future. Firms locational, technological and labor decisions are also altered
in the face of high land and housing prices. There is some risk that these
distortions will adversely impact Korea's international competitiveness and
their overall growth performance.   Perhaps the most immediate short term
'cost" to Korea of not addressing these distortions is the impact on the
distribution of wealth and, ultimately, income. The perception, buttressed
by some recent analysis, is that the recent spiralling real estate values
have created two classes of citizens, those who own real estate and those who
do not. Although the rhetoric in the press probably exceeds the reality,
this issue has become one of the top public policy concerns in Korea. If
successful, the main benefit of this project will be to assist the Government
in addressing this issue while ensuring equitable and efficient growth in the
future.
4.          The other thrust of policy reform to be addressed under the
project is the rationalization of the public assistance programs in the
housing sector. As is common to many (if not most) countries, Korea has



Annex-5
page 2
pursued efficiency and equity in the housing sector with a mingled set of
policies and programs.  While an efficient housing sector (Le. using the
least resources to produce a unit of housing services) also makes equity
programs less costly to implement, there is a danger that ineffective
efficiency-oriented regulations remains in place justified as equity measures
or vise versa. Korea has committed both mistakes. The policy and program
development measures to be pursued under this project for the social housing
programs will compel the government to identify, more explicitly, the
recipients, the magnitude and duration of the housing subsidies offered to
lower income households. The process of measuring those "incentives", both
explicit and implicit, will inevitably lead to more progressive targeting and
a reduction in total subsidies. The reduction will come about largely as the
result  of  recognition  of  implicit  subsidies  going  to  unintended
beneficiaries. A clear economic benefit will be improved fiscal performance
in respect to this sector.
5.          Although the reforms may constitute the largest benefits of the
project, there would be about 15,000 lower income units constructed using
loan proceeds. The traditional calculation of the economic return to housing
irsvestment compares the economic cost of the inputs, properly adjusted for
transfers such as taxes, with the economic value of the finished product -
the house.  The economic return on a dwelling is best represented by the
actual monthly rents. The Korean system of paying rent by having the tenant
make a deposit with the landlord, which is returned in its full nominal
amount at the end of the rental period, makes the calculation of the rent
stream straightforward. The amount of deposit required is commonly expressed
as a share of the purchase price.   According to data collected for the
background studies for this project the range of deposits in Korean cities is
presently between 55% and 65% of the value of a unit. In order to convert
that deposit into a monthly rent an interest rate is required. The
appropriate rate for small lenders and borrowers in Korea is probably that in
the informal credit markets where the present rate ranges from 1.8% to 2.2%
a month. This is also the rate at which landlords are typically willing to
accept monthly payments in lieu of deposits. The following table presents the
results of this analysis where the rates of return range from 10.2% to 16.3%.
Rates of Return on Korean Housing
Monthly interest rate:          1.8R           2.0L          2.2%
Deposit as a share
of house value:       55%            10.2%          11.8%         13.3%
60%            11.5%         13.2%         14.8%
65%            12.8%         14.6%         16.3%



Page 1
HOUSING PROJECT
An Analysis of Public, and Privaite Incentivesf
in the Housing Sector
TerMs of Referenge
Bserkground
1.        Recent data suggest that, in the aggregate, urban Koreans are
better housed than ever before. Strong concern remains, however, that (1)
for some time housing prices have appeared to rise faster than prices
generally, and (2) the improvement in the aggregates masks the fact that much
remains to be done to adequately house particular groups.
2.        As in most countries, most Koreans are housed in the private
market. The Korean government employs a mix of public interventions (housing
programs and policies), most of which are intended to provide incentives to
encourage production of low and middle income housing by the private sector,
and to make this housing affordable by target groups.   Of these, most
widespread in their impact are policies regarding urban factor markets
(especially land and finance), and the regulatory framework (including
taxation).   New programs and policies are under consideration, including
changes in tax and land policies as well as new rental programs. These new
program and policy proposals are potentially quite powerful and require
careful evaluation.
3.        It was widely understood that government interventions affect the
price of housing but the methodology to analyze the effects of individual
interventions as well as the combined influence of many policies, programs
and regulations has only recently been available. Previous research
demonstrated that in the private sector, despite government's intentions,
many regulations tend to raise costs, reduce supply and sometimes yield
little benefit to consumers.  Research has also identified specific areas
where more complete analysis of particular interventions is required
(especially taxes and land regulation).   In general, the main analytical
tasks are to:
(a)   analyze current and newly proposed regulatory policies in depth,
with special emphasis on capital gains taxation, property taxes,
zoning and other permissions required for development, land
pricing policies, and policies affecting the organization of the
real estate development and brokerage industry;
(b)   broaden the range of solutions considered, with special emphasis
on the role of the private sector and to provide a broader view of
the relative merits of policy options;
(c)   apply  the  incentive  models which  explicitly  calculates  the
beneficiary's valuation of the benefits (which the previous



Page 2
research showed could be quite different from the ordinary
financial measure in some cases);
(d)   analyze distributional issues as explicitly as efficiency lssues;
(e)   prepare a thorough and rigorous analysis of the costs and benefits
of specific regulations, and prepare a program for reduction of
inappropriate regulations and strengthening of cost effective
regulations;
(f)   develop and collect a systematic set of quantitative indicators
which will permit improved monitoring of the effectiveness of
policies and programs relative to their stated objectives;
(g)   emphasize wide dissemination of results and method, within HOC and
academia as well as KRIHS.
General Design and Organization
4.        The study will build on past work, extending the incentives model
in the directions indicated above. A second study (Annex 6B) will comprise
detailed analysis of taxation and land use regulations (including
redevelopment as well as greenfield development). This study will stand on
its own, although, the results will also feed into the incentives model. The
general method is to analyze housing policies and programs from four points
of view:
(a)   the economy as a whole: is the investment a good use of society's
scarce resources?   does a particular tax or regulation yield
benefits which exceed its costs?
(b)   housing  producers:  will  they  have  incentives  to  produce
appropriate units?
(c)   housing consumers:  who can afford each program/type of unit? how
much do recipients value each program relative to alternatives?
which programs can reach those most in need, and the largest
number of those?
(d)   government: what is the effect on central government budgets? on
local governments? on "off-budget" government expenditure?
5.        The study will focus on obtaining careful estimates of the costs
and benefits of selected interventions which are as yet not clearly
understood, including real estate taxes and land use regulations. The study
will use these estimates and others to analyze the overall structure of
incentives for units inside and outside of government programs, and for a
variety of locations.
6.        The research will be carried out by consultants at the Korea
Research Institute on Human Settlements (KRIHS).   The research will be
carried out under the general direction of the Housing Bureau of the Ministry
of Construction. A consultative group from interested ministries, including
the Land Bureau of the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of Finance, the
Economic Planning Board, the Korean Land Development Corporation, the Korean
Housing Bank and the private sector will be formed.



Page 3
7.        In addition to the technical work, workshops will be set up to
bring together technical and pollcy staff, and analysts carryLng out similar
work ln other countries. One or more workshops wlll be carrled out withln
Korea, and staff wlll particIpate In an international workshop to be held in
order to share technical advances among researchers working In thls area from
several countries.
Timetable. ReDortLng and Leyel of Effort
8.        lhe study wlll take place over 24 months.  After signing of the
contract an initlating workshop will take place to review research and policy
directions. An inception report will be produced within 2 months, and an
interim report within 6 months. A draft final report will be made available
by the end of the 18th month. Recommendations for reforms will be included
in the report at that stage. The overall Incentives study would be carried
out be researchers at KRIHS, with a level of effort of about 24 man-months.



Page 1
HQUSIGW PROJECT
A Review of the Legal and Reeulatory
Fraework Governing Land Use
Terms of Reference
Ob4er.IvUN
1.        The following study aims at creating a permanent tool to be used
by the staff of the Ministry of Construction to (i) monitor the supply of
urban land and residential floor space, (ii) identify the elements of land
use legislation and building codes which affect the supply of land,
(iii) develop and analyze various land development scenarios and their impact
on land prices, and (iii) recommend a course of action, including land
legislation reform.
Methodology'
2.        The study will review all the legal and regulatory aspects related
to land conversion, land use and building codes which affect the supply of
residential plots and the floor space which car. be built on it. A model
mathematically linking all the relevant parameters is used to generate
alternative land supply solutions. By linking land and floor supply with
demographic and geographic population distribution, consumption indicators
(densities, floor space per households) and performance indicators (density
gradients, mean population distance to the city center) can be developed.
These indicators are then used for analyzing land development variants.
3.        One key element in developing the land-use scenarios is to have a
good assessment of future urban population growth. A policy of constraining
the supply of land in the major urban centers to control their growth has
proved coututer-productive and has resulted in higher land prices. For this
reason, the demographic growth of urban centers should be based on past
trends rather than on planning objectives.
4.        Once a reasonable and likely urban demographic projection has been
obtained, a number of supply scenarios can be tested. The extreme cases would
be:
(a)   Tokyo  scenario:    very  high  regulatory  constraint  on  the
development of land, very high land prices, very low land and
floor space consumption (small apartment sizes).
(b)   Hong Kong scenario:  high constraint on the supply of land, but a
pragmatic approach to building codes allowing very high densities
but larger floor space consumption than above (high land prices
but somewhat lower housing costs).



Axxrse 6a
Page 2
(c)   Los Ang2les scenario: no constraint on the supply of land, high
constraint on building codes resulting in an enormous urban sprawl
at very low density. High consumption of land and floor space per
household, lower (than (a) or (b) housing prites, high transport
and infrastructure costs, high damage to the environment because
of energy consumption linked to transport.
pDtailed U as
5.        The study will include:
(a)   a guantitative land use model analyzing the constraints on the
supply of land and floor space at two levels:
(i) national level, and
(ii) metropolitan level (Seoul metropolitan area);
(b)   an analysis of a number of variants obtained through running the
models, explaining the legal and regulatory changes which would be
required and the costs/benefits that each variant would bring; and
(c)   a Droposal for a orogram of reform for land regulation explaining
in more detail the implementation of a selected variant developed
in (b).
National Level
6.         The study at the national level will include in the analysis, the
following data:
(a)   Changes in the amount of land zoned and developed for urban use
for the last 10 years:
(i)   quantity of land converted to urban development.   Yearly
growth rate,
(ii) percentage of land zoned residential,
(iii) growth of the urban population in the last 10 years,
(iv) density of population in developed urban and residential
areas, and
(v)   density trend for major cities;
(b)   Projection of (i) to (iv) for the next 20 years. Consistency of
land use policy with housing policy; development of variants; and
(c)   Reform proposal on the role of national land use planning, in
particular concerning decentralization and the supply of urban
land.



Page 3
The data will be provided disaggregated for the six largest cities and
aggregated for the smaller cities.
Metropolitan Level
7.        The study at the metropolitan level will consist of:
(a)   A land uae map of geoul metrogolitan area covering a radius of
35 km around City Hall and showing:
(i)   unbuildable areas due to topography:
a.    river and water bodies,
b.    flooded areas, protection of river banks,
c.    mountains,
(ii) unbuildable areas due to land classification:
a.    large parks,
b.    green belt,
C.    agricultural area,
d.    others,
(iii) areas which have been classified as buildable:
a.    residential (differentiate between vacant and built-
up)
L.    residential
ii.   exclusive residential.
iii.  semi-residential
b.    commercial,
c.    industrial,
d.    areas   reserved   for   large  non-residential/non-
industrial projects,
(iv) an overlay of Gu and Dong administrative boundaries.
To facilitate the quantitative analysis of both lad *--a and
population, all of the above information will be digitized and
will be entered in a GIS format.
(b)   A mathematical model divided into two parts:
(i)   Wregated Land Use.  This part of the model will consist of
a quantitative evaluation of the various regulatory stages
which control the transformation of raw land into usable
residential floor space. It will also contain a number of
land and housing indicators such as gross and net densities,
average floor space per household etc. The aggregated land
use will also be projected for the next 5 and 10 years,
according to several variants, making explicit population
growth hypotheses for Seoul Metropolitan area (see Figure 1
and Table 1).
(ii) Concentric Land Use. This part of the model will use the
same data collected for the aggregated land use model and
the land use map, but will disaggregate land use categories
by distance to the city center (see Figure 2 and Table 2).



Amzx 6
Page 4
(c)  _ianaia   t   iMact of land man legialAtion ox the sn21v of
residentiAl lan and flogr sRac  for the next 5, 10, and 15 years.
Using the models, quantified proposals would be made to increase
the supply of residential land and floor space. The value of the
indicators corresponding to each proposal will be discussed. The
proposals will be presented in a synthetic graphic form using the
format of graphs and tables 1 and 2.
(d)  A2gDosal fgr a ipram of refor  for land use regulation  This
proposal will be focused on the implementation aspect of the
quantitative changes proposed with the use of the model. It will
involve the type of zoning and/or building code regulations which
would need to be amended to allow the land market to function and
to facilitate the redevelopment of areas with inefficient land use
while protecting the interest of land owners and renters.
Timetable. Regorting and Level of Effort
8. The study will take place over 24 months. After signing of the contract
an initiating workshop will take place to review research and policy
directions. An inception report will be produced within 2 months, and an
interim report within 6 months. A draft final report will be made available
by the end of the 18th month. Recommendations for reforms will be included
in the report at that stage.  The overall incentives study would be carried
out be researchers at KRIHS, with a level of effort of about 24 man-months.



or,)
o                                                        i.i                                              oc XE
..... ~~~~~.......... -----                                  -        --- --. ..   ... . .... ..,
I                                                .  .. . . .... ....................
|~~~~~~~~~ . . .... . ...         . ..- ........                       .    ... . . ............ . ...
U-. §.... =< {E



Annex 68
Page 6
Figure 2
LAND USE PROFILE IN SEOUL IN 198
120,
Topo Conelhwt
100o                                                              ReguE Consmtrel
Vaaar* DmlAkel
Developed non Res.
0      2     4     6    6     1     12 14   16   182
.  ,  .  ..  .   ..  , o   .  .m  .  . .I .I .
..........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e.
40                                              . . . . . .  Itr....
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..,, ... ...i  
0    2    4           _                    C 0 12 1  16   I  , 
'    3 '    ' '            11M   13   is    1     I
. . . .    j.                       F    Fdw



Page 7
Table 1: Example of Fonnat for Aggregated Land Use Model
REGULATORY CONSIRAIN19 ON THE SUPPLY OF RESIDENTIAL LAND
City       two                 Year    200m
4                                                     ex     .        _     _     Alteative I
5 Totd Popofaton                                         1Q6 million                 13.18 mji
6 Assual Urowtl rte                                                                  zloo
7 Aem  Houehl sire                                         4                           3.9
8 Nvmber of Houshd:                                      165 mtllon                   3.38 million
9                                                      (bk2)                   -   (b1 1
10 TotlAuawlhn           25 kmradiea                     1,863                   .
11 Totl a   within SeouJ adau                           70l39   101             ..    39      7f
121A. Land Cowa,aLaws
13
14 Awe sue pees belt                                     351.3   49.6      9  351.3  4Q                                   d S ol  ndes
is Path                                                           ao0                          (1                          .
16 Morsiaa                                                        0.l                          aCLOW
17 P    _cad aplltuatl bad                                4.77    Q71                  477     a1 
18 Milth R*ktcd Ans                                               QOt                           091.
19 Rivn madlake                                                   ao% 
20 Ri  b  b                                                       a0                           aos 
21
22 Totl UsbullMb                                        35%07    5a31                35607    511,39
23
24 Toa Bulable                                          3532    49.7                 3532    4.1 7
25
25 IU Zotin LA
27 Asre   resldeal                                     34016    41                 3mOO06    41                            a
28         Oflse  (1)Vat                                 15.10    5,0.               11510     S,05                  ofR esIeedd ZOO
29                  (2)baMt.p                           2891    V&Q*                 211691   89 0
30
31         OlWbi  (1)RestdestmllZo                      29.04    41.4%               204    41.A
32                  (2) Eulckle ResIdntal  7me            S22     01                   5M2     07
33                  (3) Semi ResIdeal Zas                 374     o                    3.74    am                    oSfol Bow adsea
34 Oder m  Rulddeutl:                  5tl31                      7.1                 50.31    7.1
35
36 CSit PIwaIf Pratic
37         1. Newlargo Statle Radel                     4&04    15.09                 4104    15.00                  of Boltp resiadal (Use 25)
35
39                  Are  foemads                          818    01                    a18    1*0        9           of New Lap Seie RaJeMa
40               b. Armfor Wil                             21                          1.21 a                              " %
41               c. Amufo opesepce                       33      71                    .23     1iS 
42               d. Amualtreo FPadle                     4.86    t                     486    11 1 .
43               a. Cbmuea falite                        422                           422
44               L RP     atlulpd p                     21.35                         21353
45                   ofwdc
46                  (1) ladhidu bowlsil                  534    250.                   134    25 o0                     d R elS Plot (flie 40)
47                  (2)WalkP.epOatu                     11.74    49                   11.74    51                          .
48                  (3)hlhulu.spase_ats                   113    14fi9                 Z13    3 l
49                  (4 -                                   13    las1                  113   la98. 
49                  (4)ulhea                             111    1w                     113    1                                     0
so
St         1 Tcmdoaal Xmead                           2 7                           237                             of dksup  smk lal (lm 25)
52
53                . Area  trra                          41L77    a                    417     2M                     ad TrmdltkraRaldet
54               b. Arm    rdl                           14       1                    144     L. O
35               & Armiopeaspm_                          7.32     03                   73      3.&G1 
6                d. ArmfoeCOmaayPadhles                 14e                           14W3     4                           0 
57                . CO_morebal  bulti. 2d39    1                                   A  "       IO.
so               L RaJem                               14432      1ff2                                                     a OM
59                   dfwhc
60                  (1) bladl,  h oin                   5L21    3S1                   5t.21                          of  RelRidell Plots (lie 54)
61                  (2)1al11p1allaum"                   5453    4109                  5.33
62                 (3)oItdldu                           2.2    210                      .     2
63                 (4)odhr                               7.32     1                    7.32     .                          0
66



ane 6B
Page 8
d8  T,e Resdnil Fkleer:                             211W8   lOIL0O              2lQ08  100601A
69         t. NM  1Ar Sods ROWO                       434   119.25               *134   192s1                 olel awesQall Pourilm(uem)
70                 PAR             LP    AftdLpi A1 
n1        (I)i6iidwols                aL75     a7    9.74       9aQ75  47         3,74    9.34O dNM tAfp 8zh_fdftW(Om65)
722wio _                              27S      U3   27.00   dd    Z7S   13    27.00   46A9?1
n          (1)4d hihr- nw ,           475      is    7.47    U$%9 475   15        7.47   11591 
74         (4)Gd                                1    213        F          1      Z13     &39                   
76i        2 Tbedi4"1 resienil                      U5t73   SUM                 169.73   J48"                 of recdtlal Fleot see (II" 64)
77                 FAR             Lep       epml 
78         (1) ldww odg               a7s      a6   3aL73   11111 S6 an    6    30a73    W%1                  of TrdiloWrsdetal
79         M2)ll-Poptet               Z75       2   117.05   OR09* Z7S    2   117.06   ORO1* 
51        (4)od                                 1    7,32      "%1                7.32    43§1* 
82_ _
63 L1] INICR7S_: 
B4 -to UabihFkbSpe                                  uDao                        t^g10
83         1. No Se   ab   Red _                     29Q70                       2QL70
87         ( I)hldM     o"            109b            Z99          dORN          299
411        (2)wak-p        l         7109i           2a2           71609         202
so         (3M)rh Sptimit            6109%            486          S0;1          4.^S
go        (4)twr                     710%            11AD1        7S0!1          1.69
93
98() ~1    bomS                      11110           24A           am     1     24Sg
9S         (2) ima"    qwu           71091           8.79          701ft         W.70
t6         3)OU"amome                am       2      I44          85.1          lZ44
97         (4)od                     7109f           _4           7"AY           14
go                                                  Pm       Sd               Ptm       =2_
100 AverpL|U  FbkPocoeeper                            -4S7   slop9            _          12.14
IM  wp    U    fioet _pm    Hendd                     1L30      IU8             11U5    4734
-a2 Ave L_6 R"I  pe HH is Lop  Rv A   O              3&S< 1fi611                 2ff66   61.19
mAa . L. d     _ - I  -NHI Tnmn  P3ddd               s      lOt.106             26O1   Zam          
1101                                                 P4 
105 Dalvl       molmilpelAnhsp _                   _
aw0        *| DuqhbgWt    vA                          3n                          374
-0n    k1"uD      p0aiesiA                             36                         4ss
1191msiy   R .We     d                             Z                           a             _
1l3 PlourSpicerpHHwpHeTu       p                   To"l   PS*    PO           TOW    People
114                                                Pleo       b          PPlw            In   Po
itS 1. NOW  lrBo  pAdsL Avm                   h   Spew       ltlOO  HH        Spee      l00D  HH
117        (1) bHbkt                   120            Z99      252  3A   g 90 Z9           26     3.8
t8   (2)Wd"1Gp_M                  73            MM5    UN   &S   4S    MZ2   1.71           to8  
tt   ("M* do* w"_                 7             4A11     246  &S   45       436     410     is         i
12D        (4)_he                       55            IA9      111  3    49      UID    t52       SA
122        Z Tadoa  wdd
124           sl       l               li10          MA8            3    65    2s8       ,7       3.8s
in         (2)w     ___ I                            n  s.79        19 ^    45    87.79   7,414   is
inS        (S)nl4tpa_1"                 40           1U4   1tl82   3.8  35    12.44   459         L
tZ         (4)*                         U5            L49      46S  Le   is      S49      $9S     3A
1t0                        Tadhdl                           ti47?                      l2,11
130                        C0111160 a_                      low                        tUOD
U23
1"oo    =.a =_w MM=                   =



Page 9
TABLE 2: - CONCENTRIC LAND USE AND DENSITY PATTERN - 1968
Number of peope                                         10.287 muillo
(FrF51
Maxmum FAR in Residentl Anens                               o
Cnefillet Usable floor space                              o75
Avege Usable floor space/pesuo                              10  2
Mnmum Usable floor spaIpeuo                                 6 m2
Maximum PermIssible dowity                               3,750 pb
Avenp permiulble density                                 2250 
Maimma.Rdius                                               20 km
diet
Total resI  al area within aximum nsud                  17)07 Km2       +A20c-
Total Ar  within max radius                            1,2664"
Totl Developed ae witbin Mux raius                      23Q78
Total Pplation wIti Maximum Radus                    10,23
Voteua populaon widinmu rdi                          tOus1,23
Awng residedal density                                    594 piha
Minimumstwsidentlallenift                                 S~ao  A
Minimum Orsa densiky
a     B        C      D      B       P       0         H         1      3       K        L        M
1       2       3     4       S       6         7         a      9       10       11       12
c-topogipblcal coustralaa-c4tcffaL bd                         taklc             Non
did CQemt. Total            Rive  Mouta                       Agt Roads ROW 'cDevel pable -. Readdi
am    %b2Ku2  K12    %  i2    %  m2a Mm%  9  2  Km1
0       0      560%   0.0           OA      560%        0.0     ais    O O     urn        a.      a
1     3114     5.0% Q2        Q      .16    &0*         0.2     Q15    144   749%         is      2.1
2     942    10.0%   0,9            Q94    &00*         07      Q.12    0.9  7T6IM       69       19
3    1571    I20%   1.9            1.      800%        1.1    012    1S   71.n          11.2      69
4    21.99    110%   3.3            330      00%       15      012    21    W6%         151      (10
5     2e,7    20.0%   5.7  t.93      .72    7.00%       1.6    0.12    2.IS   65A47          1 11.1
6    34.56    30.0%  104   8.25     112    8.00%        L9      012    27   S6e)         196      t3.2
7    40.84    25.0%  10.2  3.       68    8.00*         2.5     012    34   d272%        24.8    118
8    47.12    35.0%  16S   238    14.11  1t00%         321      012    33   5q.4%        24)    1t8
9    541    25.0%  13.4   106    1L329   1160d 60               0.12    41   5610%       30.0    168
10    S69    15.0o1  9.0  2.01       690  306%          15,2    0W1    156 5i            3210     164
11    6.97    17.0%  11.2  L.os      .24   59W%         27.4w'  0.0    2S  387.77%      2490     I,
12    7P26    20%  14S  131    1114           0         47      OAS    1.8  2649   2t.3          12.0
13    X54    250%  tQ96   Q59    1Q04   7400%           436      OX      Lt   1W1O       14.2      7.9
14    MU82    20M0   17.0           1696      009%      53       06      0.8  110%       12,8      7.0
1S    91.11    0t%  164             1640   K6O          a.       0.0    0.4  1181%       18        64
16    97.3    17.0W  166            1656   90.60        717      003    0.2    83%        7.8      4S
17   16667    160%  166             1659   9.00%        87    I0.05    0.1   414%         43       a5
is   160.0    150%  165             1649  0900%         91.6   00S    0.0   1.67%         1.       1.0
19   11624    140%  163             1627   9600%           0     0.01    00    1.709      2.0      1.1
20   12Z52    1.0%  1W9             1*3   9100%        101.      0.01    0       S11%     is3        9
15664   18.45% 231.8  2478   3074                 760.52           33.2      276   2878



annex 6B
Page 10
N    0          P    Q           R         S    T   U    V    W                    X        Y         Z    AA   AB   AC
13     14       1S      16       17        18      19     2D      21       22      23       24        25        26      27       28
Potestdl d
-     -   aa u     _> .c-Actwl edop                                          t->                               DevelOpe Deelopa-
pa..w          c~.el            psma|l0 poseadal         Noa Ra.          Total   iadva  Arlal   Cmatlve   area  -bit Area crde
na.         d    N¢ t Red Popalo      abtd   Amre DelpedRealdh Dewdope  Am   Populatio Popatio  ps               ps nmu  PM
9.    &.2  Me        amity perdlre Popuktiu   9b    K2    K.2                                              density  deb q  de mlq
3ao0      ao     SO0     1W0                                          0
10.0%     0  Q025    1,000   25,381         25,381 1009    l0       Q25     133     aOO    2,381         a0      109      109      81
1459      1.0    1,27    150)  152,149    177,30 100        585    1.01      687    (COD)  154149         Q2      222     222      161
Z3*       23      3U4    1      34.M       511739  100%  319        2.27    11.19    (0.0)  341,M         (LS     305      305     217
339%      5I     567    1.10   5,38   11326 109'  10a0              5.12 tS13       ((LO)  56S8           1.1     372     372      256
454       U        1 74    16.0  9 0U 781   1,780   109   11.12    740    1&551      100   702,361        18      S0      380      2
V14*      6.3    2494tS 0   612,674  2,87,81  100%    1             6.34    198      (OD   60,674         14              sag      174
364S*     9.0   31.44     850   761190  33,71M   10o0   t1376    904    218          BOO   7686190        3.2     310     310      I86
47.2%    11.4   4289      800   9157    4,07,498 100%    1181   11.45    2426        0.0   915,2          41      3m      37       194
441%     132    5609      800 1I04)20  3,27,816 100%    1676   1120    298           000 1o,020           31      353     353      198
a2m      1335      m      800 1.216a   62A9    100%    1844   13           31.9c     aOo 1.,163           62      339     39       1s1
*W    III    SL7t         800   9993   .1X972  100%    11t    119    2491            000   96M           7.2     38       3       147
43,4%     9.2   g9gS      9gm   5M16    8540   100%    12          924    21.27    aOo   6.58s            &0     391      391      11S
44%       63    9728   1t150   72117   8.737,212  109%    7.91    6.34   11424       Q00   n4672           7     312      512       93
4V9       5.7  l15.0    t,Zo   687,24   9.424,453  100%    7.03    5.73    1176      0.00   667.241      9.4     539      S39       81
4L0*      4.4  1042      9om    38t631   9MI0s4  1GW%    6S35    441   1ta76       Q00   3W31           9.8     369      369      44
4&*       3.4  11.8       93o   32,0D6 16143,090 1o0%       445    3.39     7.84    O.00   322S0        101      411      411      33
411*      1.8  1116       S00   144,513 1a0*745  100%       149    180    429       0.00   144,313      1a3      536      336      14
4S0*       k8 11144         0         0102B7,*4011          1.0 t  0         84  Q00            0       1a 3       0        0       0
41        09   1433         0         0 17l4(lSa  100%      10    O8       SRS      0.0         0       10O3       0        0       0
45D%      2.4  11671        0         0 1,28403  1o0        190   237       5.28    0.00        0       103        0        0       0
116.71
_ - ~~~~~~~~~.9.                                 .     



Page 1
HOUSING pOECT
Procedures for Land Acguisition.Compensation and Relocation
1.   JL.n  Acg isition.  Acquisition proceedings by public agencies including
Ministry of Construction (HOC) are governed by the 'Special Law on Acquisition
and Compensation of Lands for Public Use", which is in force since December
31,1975. Mandatory land purchase for land development and housing projects by
the Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC) and the Korea National Housing
Corporation (KNHC) as well as for urban planning projects are covered by this
law. Under this law, the Construction Bureau of MOC makes the initial surveys
and investigations, prepares a preliminary valuation of compensation payable for
property, loss of livelihood, relocation expenses, and forwards these estimates
to the Housing Bureau of MOC for discussion with the affected persons. This
normally occurs about six months in advance of finalization of acquisition
proceedings.
2.   Almost simultaneously, the Construction Bureau refers these initial surveys
to two private valuers, who are licensed under the law to make independent
valuations of compensation payable to the affected persons. These independent
valuations are made in accordance with guidelines framed under the Law and are
based on the valuer's professional judgement after taking both market prices and
book values into consideration. The average valuation of the two independent
valuers' assessments form the basis for final negotiations with the affected
persons and, being generally fair and reasonable, are accepted by the majority
of those affected. Where no agreement is reached, either MOC or the public
agency in charge of the project must negotiate the purchase price with the
landowners.   In the event these negotiations fail, the affected parties are
entitled to make an appeal to a Committee of Appeals, which is set up under the
Law by MOC to hear and adjudicate such cases.
3.    The general experience is that about 10% of affected persons make appeals
to this Committee mainly to obtain reassessments of property values based on
anticipated appreciation resulting from the proposed improvements for which the
land is being acquired.  In the rare event that the Committee's findings are
unacceptable to the parties concerned, recourse is always available to the Law
Courts under the general laws.
4.    ComRensation. As stated above, compensation is determined by independent
professional valuations. Compensation is payable for both movable and immovable
property affected as well as for loss of crops and other amenities, loss of
livelihood ( on an average up to three months of estimated lost earnings ), loss
of rental deposits and relocation expenses.   Assistance is also generally
provided to disadvantaged families to relocate, find suitable accommodation,
schooling and health facilities. Poorer families are subsidized for hardship
caused by dislocation.



Page 2
5.    Where more than ten households which are to be dislocated want to move to
an agreed place of regettlement, the project agency is expected to provlde
housing at the resettlement site as well as basic infrastructure such as roads,
water and sanitation. The provislon of dwelling unlts constructed by the project
agency could be adequate substltutes. The Law also obligates the project agency
to offer cash componsation to displaced tenants, who have lived in the affected
house for at least three months, equlvalent to the average consumption
expenditure of urban households for a three month period.
6.    As an exception to the rule that compensation for land acquisition be paid
in cash, KLDC is permitted to offer Land Development Bonds up to 50% of the
amount of compensation if it exceeds W100 million per landowner.
7.    Relocation.   Relocation of persons dlsplaced by public housing programs
is governed by law.   In the development of new land, land or house owners
affected by the project are given the opportunlty to purchase a new apartment or
lot for a detached house at the site itself. In addition, tenants i i occupation
of housing on the property on the day the development plan was approved, will be
accommodated in a rental apartment in the new development. High priority is
gLven to such relocation.
8.    Redevelopment schemes in cities can be implemented either by local
authorities or KNHC on the one hand or by the owners of the land forming a
partnership or corporation for the purpose.   Land and house owners in all
redevelopment schemes have the same rights as in the development of new land.
But in redevelopment, tenants are offered a rental unit only under public housing
programs, but not in privately sponsored schemes, where, however the corporation
may offer renters some compensation to vacate the property.
8.    CojclusLon. Experience has shown that generally NOC and other public
agencies have developed realistic and satisfactory plans to accomplish land
acquisition, compensation and relocation in projects already completed or under
implementation. Funds required for these purposes are included in project costs
and in the analysis of the financial and economic viability of the project,
enabling timely payment to be made to affected persons. Project agencies also
have the organizational capacity and experience to successfully implement plans
described above, without causing undue hardship or social and political problems,
while carrying out public development projects in urban areas.



Page 1
HOUSING PROJECT
Bank  Sgudion Plan
Approxinma  Da                                       Expected skill                     Stff input
(montyear)          Activity                         Rqui                               (daff-weeb)
Dec. 1991           Initie Tcchnical Coop.on         Beonomist (housing polioy)         5 sIw
- Inoentiva Study               Land-us Expert
- LAnd-uw Study
Review PDS Indicators
Review final 7th FYP
Review final 3rd TYPDP
Junc 1992           Review Inception Report           Economist (housing poLhcy)         S Shw
- Incentives Study               Land-ue Bxpet
- Land-use Study
Review PDS Indicators
Dec. 1992           Review mid-tme  Reports          Economist (housing policy)         5 s/w
- Inoentives Study               land-us Expert
- Land-use Study
Review PDS Indicators
JueM1993            Review draft final Reports       Economist (housing policy)         5S1/w
- Incentives Study               Land-ue Expert
- Land-ue Study
Review PDS Indicators
Deo. 1993           Review final Report              Eoonomist (housing policy)         6 s/w
- Incentives Study               Land-ue Expert
- Land-use Study
Review PDS Indicators
June 1994           Review Reform Progam from:        Economist (housing poLrcy)         8 s/w
- Inotiv4s Study                 Laaqd-ue Expest
- land-use Study
Review PDS Indicaton
:         FYP          = Five-Year Economic and Social Development Pln.
TYPDP    Ten-Year Physioal Dcvelopment Pan.



ANNZL 9
Page 1
KORE
HOUSING PRJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1.    Ten year model of NHF finances and accounts (Lotus)
2.    "Korea: Housing and Land Prices and Taxation" by Kim Kyung-hwan,
consultant to IBRD, January 1991.
3.    Korea: Recent Performance of the Housing Finance System, December
14, 1990
4.    Various mission materials



IBRI) 20170
r   u     R                         -     -1 28'                                      I SO
/        __ -        DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S REPUBILIC
i I N A                                      OF  KOREA                                                      LUNO
LoPLr s                                    , ++-^-7-2  < -Sokcho
RIP (O  KORFA                                                                                                          311'
KC(J9A    JAPAN                Panmunlom.'/                              KANG V 'ON                                 38-
135,'            115~~~~~~3'              (     I  Dnc n
0    5   Z ^'          >  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |                           A ~~~~~~~Tnhoo  
IaNnchoru                       c;an  
|f~~~~~tn                           n.OI> A    t CugChr
Suw
d ~ ~~~~~~    ~~~~     Nod:
W4ndo~~~~~
~~~~~~~~7. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     .
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
35.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
Primaory Roads
_  _. N-                                               --.----  Railroods                     3
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--. -4 .j\                                - -'- Railroads Under Construction
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nw                                            Changmu      ac >
7>rr  a"f                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+'    Airports
bf~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~RPBI OF KOREAS
a   ""v'+e                                                                       (    J  Speciol Cities
,"dendor                                 --  -    Province Boundaries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rim,r RodsaiE1.
' -R- Internstional Boundcries
cn058  W 0     .M  050Cau
pe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20                                     S   60 r0 r  (3 
onrO  w Am a- 'I b
r"~,r ,/                                                                                              i 4CUo 2  : o  ,,t!,?0   140 . ISO
dl|_                 g    /    } ~~DO                                             KtMrR
135              126p              O       1'7'                           '2''        Ii °°    '    6      
125'  12o'            12w'                     128'                     12,9-        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST 1986



