Documat of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10280-BD   Type:  (PCR)
ANDERSON, / X31676 / T9 111/ OEDD2                         ReporNo. 10280
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1477-BD/SF-022-BD)
JANUARY 15, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-URRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currencv Unit       Taka (Tk)
USSl.C0        =   Tk 34.90
Tk 1.00        =   USSO.0287
ABBREVIATIONS /ACRONYMS
3MR   -  Balancing. Modernization and Replacement
BSB   -  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSRS  -  Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
BTMC  -  Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
GOB   - Government of Bangladesh
MOT      Ministry of Textiles
SF    =  Special Fund
'JNIDO -  United Nations Industrial Development Organization
1JNDP  - United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
BTMC  5   July 1 to June 30
GOB   =   July 1 to June 30



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD 8ANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S A.
Office of Ourecut(WGeea
Operatkwo tva%uatk,n
January 15, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Second Textile Industry Rehabilitation
Proiect (Credit 1477-BD/SF-022-BD
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Bangladesh - Second Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1477-BD/SF-022-BD)" jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Unit of
the Resident Mission, Bangladesh, and the Industry and Energy Operations Division
of Country Department 1, South Asia with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operatiorns Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1477-BD/SF-022-BD)
Table of Contents
page No.
Preface     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .     .    .    .     .    .    .    .    .    .     .    .     .     .    .    .
Evaluaticn Summary   ...
PART ::  ?ROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . .
Proiect :denit . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . . . . . .                 1
Background   .1...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Link with Industrial and Macro Policy Objectives    . . . .                     2
Proiect Obiectives and Descriotion   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      2
Objectives    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     2
Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     2
Project Costs and Financing   .   . . . . . . .  . . . . . .                    2
Project Design and Organization ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     ..    2
Project Imolementation.                  . .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . .  . . .     3
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start up   . . . . . . . .                     3
Credit Suspension   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     3
Project Scope   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     4
Implement:tion Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     4
Project Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     5
Disbursements   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  S
Closing Date    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     5
Risk Identification        .   . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               5
Health, Safety and Environment    . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     6
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       6
Operations Performance - Public Sector Hills    . . . . . .                     6
Operations Performance - Private Sector Mills               . . . . .           8
Public vs. Private Mill Comparison    . . . . . . . . . . .                     9
Policy and Institutional Components   . . . . . . . . . . .                     9
Institution Building    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    9
International Competitiveness   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   10
BTHC's Marketing System   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   10
This dorument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Paae No.
Proiect Sustainabilitv  .0
:ZA's Performance . .
3orrower's Performance                                                    :1
Project Relationship                                                      11
Consultancy Services . .                                                  11
Project Documentation and Data.                                           11
Lessons from the Project .12
improving Public Mill's Performance .12
Project Design .12
PART :::  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                      14
PART :1I: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .15
Tables
1. Related Bank Loan .15
2. List of the Project Mills .16
3. Project Costs and Financing.                                    17
4.  Subloan Relending Terms and Conditions .19
5. Project Timetable .20
6. Credit Disbursement .21
7. IDA vs. GOB's Reform Package .22
8. Project Implementation .                                        23
9.  Indicators of Project Achievements .24
10. Operational Performance of Public and Private
Project Mills .25
11. Financial Performance of Public and Private
Project Mills .27
12.  Financial Performance of all Public
and Private Mills .30
13. Financial Restructuring .31
14.  Financial Rate of Return of Private Mill   . . . . .           32
15.  Comparative Operational Performance of Public
and Private Mills (Y85-9))   . . . . . . . . . . .           33
16. TA Studies .34
17. Use of Bank Resources.                                          35
18.  Status of Compliance with Covenants .38



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1477-BD/SF-022-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Textile
Irtdustry Rehabilitation Project in Bangladesh for which Credit 1477-BD/SF-022-BD,
in the amount of US $45.0 million, was approved on May 22, 1984.  The Credit
closed on June 30, 1990, after a one year extension. On closing, US$24.0 million
of the Credit had been disbursed, and the balance of US$21.0 million was
canceled.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III) was jointly
prepared by the Industry and Energy Unit of the Resident Mission, Bangladesh, and
the Industry and Energy Operations Division of Country Department 1, South Asia.
This PCR was prepared during FY91 and is based inter alia on the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between the IDA and the Borrower and internal
IDA memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1477-BD/SF-022-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          The project's main objective (para. 3.1) was to make a group of
preselected denationalized private mills and public sector mills of the
Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC) internationally competitive and
financially viable through a program of equipment balancing, modernization and
replacement (BMR).  This BMR program was supported by efforts to improve the
sector's overall performance through the provision of technical assistance to
strengthen sectoral planning, improve the management capacities of BTMC and
private mills, implement financial restructuring, and change yarn pricing and
distribution policies.   This project was initiated two years after a first
textile project (Credit 1205-BD) which has generally similar objectives except
that it focussed solely on public sector millb as there were no private mills at
that time.
2.          The project included financing for the BMR of 22 mills -- 15 private
and 7 public -- and technical assistance to strengthen the BTMC Training
Institute's capabilities and undertake studies on the Handloom Sector and a
Consumer Market Survey (para. 3.2).   Total project costs "ere projected at
US$61.0 million, of which the IDA credit was to finance US$22.98 million, a
Special Fund (SP) Credit US$22.02 million, UNDP US$1.0 million and BTHC and
public mills US$15.0 million.
Implementation Experience
3.          From the outset, the project's implementation by both the public and
private mills was disappointing. The project's scope significantly changed due
to: (a) poor response from the private sector, largely because of failure of
potential sub-borrowers to settle their overdues with the financing institutions
(the number of participating private mills was reduced to four); and (b)
denationalization of public mills, which reduced the number of original public
project mills to four. However, because of procurement delays, only two private
mills were able to use the Credit funds. Later at BTMC's request, 15 additional
mills which could not be financed under the first project were included,
increasing the number of public mills to 19 (para. 5.4).   IDA agreed to
reallocate SDR 15.0 million from the unutilized private sector component for the
public mills' use.   IDA also stipulated that before BTMC could use these
reallocated funds (para. 5.5), the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) /BTMC had to put
in place a satisfactory package of reforms to enhance commercialization of public
mills and divest some BTMC enterprises. Because of inordinate procurement delay



- iv -
(para. 5.6) and inability to est..blish a saciofactory reform proposal, BTMC could
not use the realloceted funds by the extended closing date.
4.          At appraisal, it was envisaged that 59% of the _redit would be used
by the private mills and 36Z by the public mills; at closing, utilization (as a
Z of the disbursed amount) was 79% by public and 21% by private mills. Although
the Handloom Study and Market Survey were undertaken, no effort was made to
disseminate the findings of these studies or incorporate them in a Textile Policy
Paper subsequently prepared by the Ministry of Textile (MOT). Because of MOT's
and BTMC's failure to employ consultants, the Training Center's capability was
not enhanced, and in-plant training was not provided to the extent envisaged
(para. 6.18).
5.          At closing, actual project costs were 52% of the appraisal estimates
(para. 5.8), and US$24.0 million was disbursed (para. 5.9).
Result
6.          Overall the project did not meet its objectives.   It has little
impact upon the reform of sectoral policies and procedures and achieved
inadequate improvement in physical output and financial performance (paras. 6.2
and 6.14). Incremental yarn production for the public and private project mills
increased by 7% and 21%, respectively and public mills' fabric production
increased by 16%, compared to appraisal targets of 29% for yarn and 222 for
fabric. Despite massive equity infusions BTMC's overall financial performance,
and that of the project mills in particular, did not improve, and the mills did
not achieve viability; nine of the project mills had losses in five or more years
(Table 9) during FY82-FY90. The institution building objectives for the most
part were not achieved because of lack of Government/BTMC comitment. One of the
project's private mills forwhich information was available showed good financial
performance.
Sustainabilitv
7.          Gains in productivity and profitability of the project's private
sector component will be sustainable.   Although public project mills have
achieved some incremental improvement, given the continued policy, procedural and
institutional constraints that face BTMC and the rehabilitated mills, their
operations are unsustainable (para. 7.1).
Findings and Lessons Learned
8.          Overall, the project's impact was disappointing.  The project failed
to meet its objectives and did little to address the more pervasi re issues
constraining efficient performance by the public sector. IDA gave undue weight
to physical rehabilitation of the mills (expectations were particularly
unrealistic as to what could be achieved through limited BMR rehabilitation) and
to the Government's commitment to the project and policy reform, and too little
to the broader problems that constrained BTMC's ability to impl-ment the project
and operate commercially. This project and the first project were initiated when
the Bank had more faith in the possibility of reforming public enterprises in
Bangladesh; experiences from both the projects has undermined this faith. The



most important lesson (paras. 13.2 through 13.6) learned from the project is that
interventions in improving public sector performance have a high risk of failure
unless actions have already been taken to ensure that: (a) a satisfactory
framework of autonomy/accountability exists through elimination of excessive
government controls; (b) enterprises are not used as vehicles of patronage; (c)
the labor unions are not politicized; and (d) wage awards are based upon actual
productivity  improvement.   Equally  importantly,  unless  there  is a strong
rationale for maintaining public participation in specific activities, the main
objective of Bank involvement should be to encourage privatization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1477-BD/SF-022-BD)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name            Second Textils Industry Rehabilitation Project
Credit No.      1477-BD/SF-022-BD (Code: 4BANPA106)
RVP Unit       Asia Region
Country         Bangladesh
Sector       :  Industry
Subsector      Textile
:I.  BACKGROUND
2.1       At the time of project initiation in 1984/85. Bangladesh's textile
sector accounted for about 302 of manufacturing value added, employed about
one million people and provided about 852 of the country's total cloth
consumption. The textile industry comprised the organized and decentralized
sectors. All 61 spinning and weaving mills were in the organized sector under
both public and private ownership.  Thirty six public sector mills were under
Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC), but prior to denationalization in
1982 all the private mills had also been in the public sector.  In 1985, the
organized public and private sector mills represented 56Z and 442 of spinning
and 522 and 48? of loom capacity, respectively; and provided about 102 of the
textile employment. The decentralized sector was mainly represented by
handloom weaving and a small power loom industry.  It supplied almost 702 of
domestic fabrics and provided about 80Z of textile employment. The ready-made
garments industry, which accounted for about 102 of textile employment, also
started gaining importance in the mid-1980s.
2.2       An IDA industrial sector review in the early 1970s identified the
need for a significant restructuring and rehabilitation of the mills under the
control of the BTMC and proposed a major program of balancing, modernization
and replacement (BMR). The recommendation was taken up under IDA's Fourth
through Eighth Imports Program Credits in the 1970s through action programs to
improve maintenance, increase the availability of spares. strengthen
management, restructure capital and formulate pricing poicies to improve the
BTMC mills' financial viability. As part of these programs. the BTMC carried
out a detailed review of mill rehabilitation with technical assistance from
UNDPIUNIDO. This review. which was completed in 1979. led to the submission
to IDA of a project proposal by GOB and BTMC for the BMR of 50 BTMC mills.
Given BTMC's limited implementation capability, IDA agreed to finance this
program in phases. Phase one, which was intended to cover rehabilitating
15 selected mills, formed the basis of the first IDA-financ"d project --
Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project, Credit 1205-BD (Table 1) which was
approved in February 1982 and closed in December 1986; the PCR was completed
in May 1990.
2.3       Shortly after the first Credit became effective in 1982. GOB
denationalized 22 BTMC mills. At the request of GOB/BTMC, IDA agreed to



support a second project to meet the BMR needs of the denationalized private
mills' and to provide turther support for the BMR of BTMC mills that could not
be accommodated under the first project.  A UNDP/UNIDO team also helped
prepare the second project, and two projects were implemented largely
simultaneously.
2.4       Link with Industrial and Macro Policy Objectives.  The proiect
supported the objectives of the '"w Industrial Policy announced in !982 under
which GOB intended to expand t       ivate sector's role by encouraging new
private investment and privati.- -ion of public mills.  It initiated
privatization of textile mills by returning 22 mills to their previous owners.
GOB believed that such a strategy would enable the textile sector to meet
domestic cloth consumption needs on a competitive basis and also help sustain
employment in the handloom sector.  Rehabilitation and expansion of textile
capacity was envisaged as generating employment and improving income
distribution in Bangladesh.
III.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1       Objectives.The project's main objectives were to: (a) improve labor
and machine productivity, capacity utilization and product quaiity to make the
textile mill sector (public and private) competitive and ultimately capable of
exports in selected product areas: (b) upgrade the managerial, administrative
and technical skills of private and public mills: (c) improve the policy
environment to provide public encerprise managers greater autonomy; and (d)
support GOB's privatization efforts.  The first three of these cbjectives were
very similar to the objectives of the First Textile Rehabilitation Project.
3.2       Project Description.  The project had two components: (a) an
investment component to finance the BMR of seven public and 15 private mills
(Table 2); and (b) a technical assistance component to assist private mills in
carrying out their BMR and improving their production management systems,
conduct a Handloom Sector Study and a Textile Consumer Market and Demand
Survey and enhance training capabilities of the BTMC's Savar Training
Institute.
3.3       Project Costs and Financing. Project costs were estimated at US$61.0
illion, of which the IDA Credit was to finance US$22.98 million, a Special
Fund (SP) Credit US$22.02 million, a UNDP grant US$1.0 million and the
remaining US$15.0 million by public and private mills (Table 3). Of the total
credit amount, the private and public mills' investment components were
allocated 59Z and 36Z, respectively, 32 was allocated for consultancy and 22
was unallocated. The financing for the investment component was provided as
subloans to the mills. In the case of public sector mills, subloans were
provided directly by the Government to BTMC which in turn channelled them to
its mills. In the case of private mills, subloans were channelled through the
two Government-owned Development Finance Institutions--Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
(BSB) and Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BSRS). The terms and conditions of
subloans are given in Table 4.
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1       The project design sought primarily to address the need to improve
private and public mills's productivity and profitability. Using BTMC's



- 3 -
technical and financial parameters (based upon the UNDP/UNIDO BMR reviews)
which were reviewed by IDA's technical consultants (Geerdes International),
seven public mills were selected for rehabilitation. BMR parameters for the
private mills were based on the mill-by-mill survey carried out by a UNDP
team, their BTMC counterparts and mill managements. The BMR program developed
for each mill was selective rather than comprehensive in scope, focussing on
the BMR modernization of old equipment with less emphasis given to the needs
of balancing the entire producticn process and replacement (rather than
modernization) of obsolete equipment.
4.2       The implementation arrangements of the project were as follows:
(a) for public mills, the BTMC was responsible for the rehabilitation
component. The Project Implementatian Cell (PIC) created under the first
project was to implement the second project as well, through BMR task forces
established within each mill, while a roving BTMC BMR task force would assist
with the more aifficult elements of each mill's program. Procurement was to
be hsndled by the Procurement Unit (PU) created within PIC; (b) private mill
managements were responsible for implementation of their own projects,
including procurement. However, in the installation of equipment, they were
to be assisted by the consultants; and (c) the Planning Cell (PC) created in
the Ministry of Textiles (MOT) under the first project was responsible for
analysis and advice on sectoral issues and policy reforms.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1       Overall implementation of the project by both the public and private
sector mills was disappointing. The project did not meet its objectives and
had little impact on the sector's policy environment and operational
performance. The reasons for the project's poor performance and slow
implementation aspects are discussed below. However, excessive reliance on
GOB's commitments to implement the policy components of the action program
resulted in inadequate consideration being given to safeguarding against the
adverse effects of non-compliance in key areas in strengthening BTMC's weak
implementation capacity, increasing the autonomy of BTMC enterprises and
settlement of outstanding overdue debt of private mills.
5.2       Credit Effectiveness and Project Start up.  The Credit was approved
on May 22, 1984 and signed on July 25, 1984 (Table 5). However, it did not
become effective until June 6, 1985 due mainly to delays in government
approval of the project and finalizing of subloan lending arrangements.
5.3       Credit Suspension.  During 1985, successive supervision missions
noted the non-fulfillment of DCA conditions and delayed implementation of
action program requirements under both BMR projects. However, undue reliance
was still placed upon GOB/BTMC's agreement to take rectifying action.
Following a supervision mission in March 1986, IDA requested GOB to implement
a package of policy reforms and actions that would: (a) provide BTMC
enterprises with greater autonomy in revising labor incentive plans and fixing
output prices; (b) further financially restructure the BTMC mills; (c) settle
an ongoing dispute between BTMC and the country's major banks concerning the
loan liabilities of BTMC's liquidated mills; and (d) reduce tariffs on
imported raw cotton. GOB's reluctance to implement these reforms by DecemDer
1986 led IDA not only to refuse further extension of the closing day for
Credit 1205-BD, but also to suspend Credit 1477-BD/SF-022-BD. In September
1987, GOB issued administrative orders to implement the above actions, and on



-4-
the basis of these orders IDA lifted the suspension in October 1987.  In
retrospect, the continuation of poor performance indicates that these actions
were inadequate to overcome BTMC's deep-seated problems.
5.4       Project Scspe.  At appraisal, it was envisaged that the project
would support BMR in a total of 22 mills, comprising 15 private mills and 7
public mills. At the close of the project, BMR has been carried out in
20 mills comprising two private mills and 18 public mills.  There were two
main reasons for the variance in the number of mills. First the private
sector's response had been poor due to the failure of potential sub-borrowers
t. settle their outstanding overdue debt with BSB/BSRS and investor demand was
lower than anticipated because of a weak yarn/cloth market caused by the
influx of a large volume of smuggled goods during 1985-88. Second, the number
of public mills was initially reduced from seven to four as a result of the
denationalization of two mills and the use of Dutch technical assistance to
undertake BMR for another. Subsequently the number of mills was increased to
19 (Table 2) with the inclusion of mills appraised under the first project;
18 mills actually used IDA funds.
5.5       In April 1989, because of savings in the private sector component,
!DA agreed to BTMC's request to transfer SDR 15.0 million from the private to
the public sector component to finance completion of the first projects's BMR
needs. However, IDA stipulated that: (a) the funds would be available to
both public and private sector mills on a first-come-first-served basis; (b)
SDR 3.9 million could be used without subproject reappraisals for 11 mills,
each of which required a small amount of funds to complete their BMR; and (c)
the remaining SDR 11.1 million could finance comprehensive BMR for 2-3 mills,
for which subproject reappraisals would be required. Although BTMC submitted
revised proposals for 4 mills, they were not technically comprehensive and the
assumptions underlying the future operational and financial performance were
not consistent with BTMC's past achievements. In the end, the transferred
funds remained largely unutilized.
5.6       Procurement.  Procurement delay was a major reason for the poor
project implementation as it took BTMC almost three years to prepare and agree
bid documents with IDA and to award contracts. This delay was subsequently
exacerbated by modifications to bid documents, poor evaluation and to the
lengthy approval procedures of BTMC's Board and MOT in approving contract
awards. Delays were compounded by frequent exchanges between BTMC and IDA on
proposed amendments. Moreover, mid-way through the project BTMC switched from
mill-by-mill procurement to ordering machinery in bulk to reduce procurement
costs. This change delayed project implementatior. even more, disturbed the
sequence of mill rehabilitation and led to mills having incomplete/partial
BMR. The delay in procurement by private mills was caused by inadequate and
inexperienced staff and lack of familiarity with IDA's procurement guidelines.
5.7       Implementation Schedule.  The private sector component was scheduled
to be completed by December 1987 and the public sector component by June 1988.
However, by those dates neither of the components had been completed. For the
public mills the main reasons were delays in effectiveness (para. 5.2),
temporary Credit suspension (para. 5.3), the change in project scope
(para. 5.4), frequent changes of management personnel, weak implementation
capacity and changes in the method of procurement (para. 5.6). Of the
18 public mills, BMR for four mills was completed according to project design,
while for the remaining fourteen mills it was only partially completed because
of the inability of BTMC to utilize transferred funds (para. 5.5). In the



-5-
case or private mills, the main reasons for delayed implementation were non-
settlement of overdue loans and weak investor demand (para. 5.4), Of the two
private mills, one mill is completing BMR in phases through two separate sub-
loans: implementation of the first phase BMR of this mill was completed in
June 1988: while the second phase is expected to be completed in Januarv 1991.
The BMR for the other mill is expected to be completed in June 1991.
5.8       Project Costs.  Actual project costs were USS31.6 million, about 52Z
of the original estimate of US$61.0 million (Table 3), with the costs for
public mills almost the same as the original estimate, while for private
mills, the actual costs were only about 23Z, mainly due to the fewer number of
private mills participating.
5.9       Disbursements.  At appraisal, it was projected that disbursements
would begin at the end of FY84 and that the Credit would be fully disbursed by
December 1988. However. the first disbursement was not made until the end of
FY87, and the final disbursement in FY91 (Table 6). Of the total credit of
US$45.0 million, only US$24.0 million (53Z) was disbursed, and the balance of
US$21.0 million was cancelled.
5.10      Closing Date.  Given the delays in project implementation
(para. 5.7), the original Closing Date of June 30, 1989 was first extended by
one year. GOB requested a further extension of one year which was not
approved because of the continued poor project implementation performance and
GOB's unwillingness to put in place a reform package comprising:
(a) partially (49Z) privatizing of three to four successful BTMC mills;
(b) inclusion of two to three private sector members on the Enterprise Board
of each BTMC mills; (c) the granting to the Boards of subproject mills the
same powers available to the Boards of Directors of companies incorporated
under Company's Act of 1913; and (d) the improvement of BTMC's operating
environment by retaining enterprise managers for at least three years and
granting them autonomy in procurement, output pricing, recruitment and
incentive bonus packages. GOB proposed an alternative reform package to IDA
(Table 7), but its scop.e was much narrower than the reform package proposed by
IDA.
5.11      Risk Identification.  The main project risks identified at appraisal
were: (a) weak implementation capability of private mills; (b) inability of
private sponsors to contribute 30Z to subproject costs; and (c) lack of
trained manpower and managerial weaknesses in private and public mills. The
project design accommodated these risks by : (a) making provision for
consultants to advise private mills at the trial stage, before equipment was
accepted as meeting performance criteria; (b) calculating overall project
costs on a conservative basis, recognizing that a few of the expected BMR
investments might not materialize due to insufficient equity; and (c)
providing consultancy services to private and public mills to upgrade
managerial capacity and in-plant training to technicians. However, inadequate
consideration was given to assessing the adverse impact of non compliance with
agreed commitments upon: (a) BTMC's implementation capacity; (b) the
procurement methods used by BTMC, i.e. bulk procurement on the basis of
subprocess, rather than mill-by-mill; (c) the liquidity of the BTMC and
private mills; (d) the considerable political and trade union pressure on BTMC
in running of its mills, which undermined commercial operations dnd the
sequential mill-by-mill BMR implementation; (el the scope and timing of
nieasures to increase public mill management's autonomy on key matters such as
pricing, production and worker incentives; (f) the merits of selecting fewer



BTMC mills for comprehensive BMR in view of the risks associated with
selective BMR; (g) the settlement of outstanding overdue debt of private
mills, which prevented a sizable number of potential sub-borrowers from
availing themselves of the Credit; and (h) the implementation capability of
private mills especially in preparation and evaluation of bids.
5.12      Health, Safety and Environment.  It was envisaged and incorporated
into the design of the project, that the BMR program would include
requirements for improving pollution control and health and safety standards
for dyeing and finishing mills which were surveyed by the Environmental
Pollution Control Department. BTMC carried out some low cost investments such
as installation of fire fighting equipment and central dust collecting
facilities to improve health and safety standards of a number of mills.
However, BTMC has been slow in implementing the survey recommendations.
VI. PROJECT RESULTS
6.1       In the prevailing climate of reluztant privatization/-
commercialization of the sector by GOB, the project had little real hope for
success and failed to meet many of its objectives including improving
productivity and quality, strengthening BTMC's management capability,
improving the policy environment to provide public enterprise managers greater
autonomy with accountability and to support p-ivatization efforts. In the
public sector, the project w.s able to arrest further deterioration of project
mills and improve certain areas of operational and financial performance (see
Chap. 6-9) while some improvement in operational and financial performance was
achieved in the private sector.
A. Physical/Financial Performance of Public Sector Mills
6.2       Overall Physical Results.  The project targeted to modernize 331,630
spindles and install 151,340 new spindles. At the completion (by June 1991)
of the BMR programs in the public and private mills, it is expected that
85,056 spindles will be modernized and 15,504 new spindles will be installed
i.e. 26Z and 102 of the respective targets will be met (Tables 2 and 8).
About 90Z of the modernized spindles are in the public mills, while
installation of the new spindles has been undertaken entirely by the private
mills.
6.3       Physical Performance.  In Epinning, it was envisaged that 113,480
spindles would be modernized and 32,396 new spindles would be added to balance
the production processes. The actual number of spindles modernized was
76,464, while no new spindles were installed (Table 8). The project mills'
capacity utilization increased from 80Z (pre-BMR) to 83Z (post -BMR), as a
result of some improvement in process balancing. The attained capacity
utilization was much lower than the appraisal target of 89Z (Table 9). This
was due to raw material shortage, power failure, labor absenteeism and
machinery breakdown. Actual increase in spindle productivity was only 0.42,
whereas it was expected to increase by 29.3Z. Because of the failure to
attain productivity, capacity utilization and spindle capacity targets, yarn
production only increased by about 7Z compared to an envisaged increase of
29Z. About 52Z, 23Z and 25Z of this shortfall in yarn production was due to
shortfall in productivity, lower capacity utilization and reduced number of
spindles, respectively. A noteworthy achievement was the significant
reduction, of about 7Z, in spinning wastage.



7-
6.4       In weaving, no loom rehabilitation was originally envisaged but, as
a result of subsequent repairs and replacement of some preparatory machinery,
capacity utilization increased by 10Z, loom productivity by 7? and production
by 16Z (Table 9), but these were much lower than the anticipated targeted
increases of 172, 22Z and 22Z, respectively. About 39Z, 33Z and 28Z of the
shortfall in production were on account of shortfalls in productivity,
capacity utilization and reduced number of looms, respectively. Two
noteworthy achievements were reduction in wastage by about 26Z and improvement
in fabric quality.
6.5       The Intra-inill comparison of the 18 project mills (Table 10) and
inter-mill comparison between BMR and non-BMR mills gives confusing results.
The mills with incomplete BMR have higher increases in spinning capacity
utilization and productivity, equal increase in production and greater
reduction in wastage than the mills with completed BMR. In weaving, the
incomplete BMR mills also performed better than the completed mills. The
project mills' operational performance, while mixed, was generally better than
BTMC's non-BMR mills. In spinning, the project mills' productivity and waste
reduction were higher but capacity utilization was lower. In weaving, the
project mill's capacity utilization was higher but the productivity and
wastage level were lower than the non-BMR mills. This suggests that while BMR
would certainly have made a positive contribution, performance of mills did
not depend on whether or not BMR was completed or undertaken, but that other
factors contributed more to performance than the physical condition of
machinery. These included autonomy, quality and efficiency of mill
management, market determined production planning, skill of operatives,
regular maintenance, low absenteeism and good labor relations.
6.6       Financial Performance.Financial performance of public mills has been
analyzed in the following manner: (a) performance of BTMC's project mills; (b)
comparison of BTMC project mills among themselves and with non-project mills;
(c) overall performance of BTMC mills; (d) impact of financial restructuring
of BTMC mills; and (e) financial rates of return of BTMC project mills.
6.7       The BTMC project mills were unprofitable before BMR and continued to
lose money after BMR (Table 11). In FY90, only six mills had an operating
profit, and nine mills have had losses in five or more years during FY82-FY90.
Analysis of performance over the last decade suggests that mills turn
profitable only when the labor, conversion and raw material costs together are
less than 90Z of sales. Labor costs during FY89-90 were about 30Z of sales,
or about 7Z higher than the pre-project level. At appraisal, labor costs were
projected to decline to 10? of sales through retrenchment and stricter control
of wage increase. However, continued excess employment and unwarranted
increases in public sector wages in recent years suggest that labor costs are
unlikely to decline significantly in the future. Other conversion costs were
projected to decline to about 8Z after BMR. During FY89-90, these costs were
about 18Z; the anticipated reduction did not take place due to failure to
arrest increases of maintenance, utilities and depreciation costs. Raw
material costs averaged about 53Z of sales during FY82-90. With a total labor
and conversion costs of about 48Z of sales, the raw material costs must be
less than 42Z of sales for mills to be profitable. However, in seven out of
nine years, the raw material costs to sales ratio has been over 45Z, and it is
unlikely that a ratio of 42Z can be achieved on a sustained basis. Thus,
unless there is a significant labor rationalization, substantial increases in
productivity and product quality and a quantum increase in management
efficiency together with increase in managerial autonomy (to buy raw



materials, adjust product prices according to market demand, have independent
recruitment policy having their own compensation structure and incentive
policy), it is unlikely that BTMC or the individual mills will emerge as
profitable entities on a sustained basis.
6.8       Inter and Intra-mill Comparison.  An inter-mill comparison of key
financial ratios (Table 11) shows a mixed performance. 'Incomplete" project
mills were able to reduce their cost of sales to sales ratio significantly and
as a result showed a better financial performance than completed BMR mills.
This suggests that the relationship between financial performance and BMR is
at best tenuous and the other factors (para. 6.6) are equally important. While
intra-mill comparison (Table 11) suggests that the project mills have better
performance than non-BMR mills, this improved performance cannot be fully
attributed to the BMR program.
6.9       Review of BTMC's overall financial performance (Table 12) indicates
that only one mill has consistently made a profit in the last nine years
(FY82-90), while 22 mills have had losses in six or more years. As in the
case of project mills, most BTMC mills made profits in those years when the
three key cost items (para. 6.8) amounted to less than 90Z of sales. As it is
highly unlikely that this break even cost to sales ratio would be achieved in
the future, most BTMC mills are likely to continue to operate unprofitably.
6.10      As part of the financial restructuring program agreed under Credit
1205-BD, GOB provided Tk.1.6 billion (USS         million) through cash infusions
and conversion of debt to equity (Table 13). This capital infusion did not
improve BTMC's financial viability, as continuing losses contributed to the
further worsening of financial performance, leading to the failure to achieve
a 70:30 debt/equity ratio by FY86 as projec,.ed. As of June 30, 1990 only five
mills had met this target. Because of liquidity problems, few of the mills
are servicing their subloans, forcing BTMC to reschedule its loan to GOB.
6.11      Ex-post financial rates of return (FRR) have not been estimated for
BTMC project mills, as they continue to show losses. While for some project
mills, there has been a reduction in net losses, it is unlikely to be
sustained. It is difficult to conclude that much of this reduction in losses
was directly due to the BMR program (para. 6.8).
B. Physical/Financial Performance of Private Sector Mills
6.12      Only two private mills are implementing BMR programs (para. 5.7). By
June 1991 it is expected that 8,592 spindles would be modernized and 15,504
new spindles installed in the two mills (Table 8). Unlike the public mills,
it is difficult to ascertain the reliability of the information supplied by
the private project mills and the published data on the private sector, and
therefore their performance assessment needs to the interpreted with caution.
6.13      Physical Performance.  Physical performance is assessed in the case
of one of the mills which has completed its first phase BMR program, which was
entirely focused on the spinning section. This mill's spinning capacity
utilization has increased by about 11X, production by about 21Z, productivity
by 6Z, while its wastage has been reduced by about 9Z (Table 9). Although
these achievements are significant, they fell snort of the appraisal targets,
which were 14Z for capacity utilization and 29Z each for production and
productivity.



-9-
6.14      Financial perfomance.  The project mills' financial performance has
been good (Table 11). During last eight years (FY83-90), they continued to be
profitable exceot in one year when one of the project mills incurred 3 loss.
The project. mill which completed first phase BMR consistently made profits
during this period and marginally decreased conversion costs (labor plus other
costs) from 25Z to 24Z. While its wage cost as a percentage of sales
increased from 12Z to 15Z during BMR, other costs decreased significantly from
13% to 9Z. This mill's lower conversion costs has been the key factor
underlying its profitability; its subloan is in the repayment stage and is
being repaid on time. The estimated ex-post FRR for the private mill which
has completed its first phase BMR is about 18Z (Table 14).
C. Public vs. Private Mill Compar:ison
6.15      It is difficult to draw firm conclusions from a comparison of
performance between public and private sectors due to questionable reliability
of the private sector data. However, a mill-by-mill review of key statistics
suggests that there are some good mills in both the public and private sectors
which performed significantly better than the rest of the mills.
6.16      Operational Performance.  Comparison of BTMC project mills with the
private project mill shows that the BTMC project mills' capacity utilization,
productivity and production were respectively 9Z, 6Z and 13Z lower than that
of private mills, while reduction in wastage was about 2Z higher (Table 10).
However, for the entire public sector mills' operational performance in
spinning and weaving was better than that of the private mills during FY85-90
(Table 15). This is probably due to the poor condition of private mills'
machinery, most of which was installed in the 1960s and which has not been
substantially modernized or rehabilitated since then.
6.17      Financial Performance of both public and private mills is poor.  In
the public sector, only one mill has consistently made a profit during the
last nine years, while 22 mills have had losses in six or more years. Among
the reporting private mills, during FY85-90, two mills (one of which is a
project mill) have made profit consistently, while 11 mills incurred losses in
fcur or more years (Table 12). It is not clear how these private mills can
continue operations, unless they have been defaulting on payments to financial
institutions. However, it is quite possible that reported profits are not
accurate and that there are hidden profits which are helping to sustain their
operations.
D.         Policy and Institutional Components
6.18      Institution Building efforts comprised training, strengthening of
planning capabilities and studies. These efforts have not had the desired
impact: (i) While a substantial number of technicians from both public and
private sector mills were providing in-plant and management development
training at the Savar Training Center, the quality and scope of training of
the Center did not develop as consultants to be employed under the Credit to
help develop training capabilities were not engaged: (ii) the Industrial
Economist remained on employment in MOT for only 27 months (out of 42 months)
from the effectiveness of the project and his services were not utilized in
building up th'e MOT's capacity for policy analysis and reforms; and (iii) two
studies, a Handloom Sector Study and a Consumer Demand and Market Survey, were
conducted under the project. The handloom study was intended to formulate a



- 10 -
program and institutional arrangements to enable this sector to play an
important role in product areas where it could remain competitive.  The
consumer demand and market Ftudy was to establish the basis for the industry's
expansion, particularly into non-traditional product lines. A Policy Paper
prepared in 1988 was intended to take full benefit of the findings of these
studies. However, a review of this paper suggests that these studies'
findings and recommendations were not taken into account (Table 16).
Moreover, the policy paper neither fully addressed many of the important
issues nor was effective in translating broad goals into implementable
programs.
6.19      International Competitiveness.  A major objective of the project was
to assist the spinning and weaving sector to become intcrnationally
competitive. Based upon available data, a number of private project and non-
project mills are engaged in direct or indirect exports, and therefore must be
internationally competitive.  However, public sector mills are not
internationally competitive and given the current cost structure of BTMC
products and the inefficient operations of the large majority of BTMC mills,
they are unlikely to be internationally competitive without a fundamental
change in BTMC operations.
6.20      BTMC's Marketing System reform focussed on changing distribution and
pricirig policies. While some changes were made in the yarn distribution
svstec., it is still not based on sound commercial grounds and is used as a
source of patronage. The present distribution system prevents the enterprise
managers from responding to changes in market demand and prices, and
consequently benefits accruing from increases in market prices largely go to
the distributors.  Although pricing policies were changed tc give partial
autonomy to the enterprise managers to change prices according to the market
conditions, this autonomy wras not adequate to respond fully and in a timely
manner to market conditions.  Moreover, in many cases enterprise managers are
hesitant to even use the limited autonomy available.
VII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.1       The project's sustainability has been assessed separately for the
private and public mills.  Gains in productivity and profitability of the
project's private sector component appear to be sustainable based on the
results of discussions with the private mill managements and review of their
past operations (para. 6.13).  However, because of the public mills' continued
poor performance and lack of sustained efforts and commitment of GOB/BTMC to
policy reform, there is no assurance that the public project mills can become
financially sound and commercially viable entities on a sustained basis.
VIII. IDA'S PERFORMANCE
8.1       During the 61 months between the Credit's effectiveness and its
closing, IDA formally supervised the project 14 times (Table 17) in addition
to intermittent follow-up by the Resident Mission.  Some of these supervisions
were carried out jointly for Credit 1205-BD and Credit 1477-BD/SF-022-BD.
However, effectiveness of the project supervision was significantly reduced
by: (a) inadequate technical staffing (eight out of 14 missions did not
include technical staff). Although the last few missions included technical
staff, by then it was too late to make any technical change in the project



- 11 -
design; (b) IDA's failure to enforce remedial measures to improve procurement.
Use of standard bid documents for procurement agreed by IDA and BTMC and
establishment of a PU with a Procurement Specialist within PIC did not receive
priority.  BTMC's failure to comply with these had a serious impact on project
implementation; and (c) undue reliance placed on the UNDP/UNIDO technical
teams.  During the supervision missions, the technical design and mill cost
structure should have been updated and monitored closely.
8.2       On two occasions IDA took a firm stand after GOB/BTMC failed to
address the issues which led to poor project performance, suspending credit
disbursements in 1987 and refusing to extend the Credit Closing Date in
May 1990 until GOB adopted a reform package along the lines recommended by
IDA. However, even these decisions did not provide sufficient incentive for
GOB to take adequate steps to improve the BTMC's performance, and consequently
IDA closed both projects and cancelled all undisbursed funds.
8.3       At the institutional level, BTMC, BSB and BSRS's performances were
mixed. During project preparation, these institutions cooperated effectively
in providing technical and financial information to support project appraisal.
However, during project implementation, their performances were
unsatisfactory. BTMC did not strengthen its implementation capacity
(para. 6.20) or achieve satisfactory operational/financial performance
(paras. 6.3-6.6) while GCB was slow in pressing institutional and policy
reforms (paras. 6.18-6.20).  BSB and BSRS could have made greater efforts to
encourage potential sub-borrowers identified during project preparation and
appraisal to use Credit funds.
8.4       The relationships between IDA and GOB/BTMC/BSB/BSRS were cordial
during project preparation and for most of the implementation stage. This
relationship deteriorated towards the Credit Closing Date, when IDA indicated
to GOB/BTMC that it would not extend the Credit (para. 5.10). GOB/BTMC felt
that IDA was often inflexibLe in its position, and failed to recognize
operating realities during project implementation, and as a result,
implementation was impeded. BSB/BSRS felt that the Credit was untimely
terminated without proper consultation with them, at a time, when the
potential sub-borrowers were showing keen interest to avail of the Credit
fund.
8.5       The agreed IDA, BTMC, BSB and BSRS's project documents provided a
sound basis for project implementation. However, while the Project Agreement
(PA) and Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were adequate for implementation
of the project's hardware component, they should have contained, as dated
covenants, specific policy reform actions, although even if more appropriate
reforms had been incorporated in specific covenants, it is unclear whether
GOB/BTMC was sufficiently committed to reform to implement them consistently
and effectively.
IX.  CONSULTANCY SERVICES
9.1       The implementation of the consultancy services component was also
unsatisfactory: (i) the completion of the Handloom Sector and Market Demand
Studies was delayed by a year because of inability to undertake field survey
due to severe floods in the country. These studies were undertaken by a local
economic research institution which was selected on the basis of ICB. While
the consultants followed closely the studies' TORs, the recommendations and



- 12 -
action programs were weak in certain areas (para. 6.18); and (ii) although
forty-eight months of consultancy services were provided under the Credit
(para. 5.11), no efforts were made from MOT and BTMC to employ the
consultants. However, UNDP grant funds were used to employ a consultant for
24 months to improve the operational efficiency of private mills' dyeing and
finishing units. The failure to employ consultants prevented at least two
private mills from carrying out procurement in time to apply for Credit funds,
as these mills did not have in-house capability to prepare and evaluate bids.
Moreover, the capability of BTMC's Training Center at Savar did not fully
develop (para. 6.18).
X. LESSONS FROM THE PROJECT
10.1      A number of important lessons were learned from implementation of
the first project and reflected in its PCR. These lessons apply equally to
tha first and second project and are therefore reiterated in this PCR.
10.2      Improving public mills' performance.  Both projects aimed at
improving BTMC's performance. The failure to achieve this objective clearly
indicates that for public mills the technical upgrading of capacity and
financial restructuring are unlikely to yield benefits unless the following
improvements can be ensured: (a) less political and bureaucratic interventions
in the enterprises' operational matters such as procurement, output pricing,
staffing and compensation; (b) preventing politicization of labor unions and
use of enterprises as a vehicle for patronage; (c) provision of full
operational autonomy to managers, concomitantly with establishment of
effective management accountability systems and a rewards/penalties based
compensation package for managers and labor; and (d) strengthening management
and selecting qualified persons for management positions.
10.3      Both the first and second projects were initiated when IDA had more
faith in the possibility of reforming public enterprise to improve their
efficiency. Experiences such as those under these two projects have
undermined this faith. Unless there is a strong rationale for maintaining
public participation in specific activities, the main objective of IDA's
involvement should be to encourage privatization. Thus before embarking on a
public enterprise restructuring project the Government's commitment and
willingness to implement privatization and measures of the type noted. If
there are any doubts about a government's long-term commitment to take the
necessary actions, the project should include significant up-front actions
(i.e. prior to Board presentation) rather than studies and agreements on
future changes. Thus, public enterprise reform projects should typically
require a combination of privatization, policy/institutional measures as well
as investments. The alternative of supporting reform through adjustment or
hybrid operations rather than an investment project should be carefully
considered.
10.4      Project Design.  The implementation capacity of the private sector
was untested, while for the public sector it was poor. This project's scope
was too ambitious and unrealistic as was that of the first project, given the
limited implementation capacity of BTMC and other Government agencies involved
in the textile sector. Importantly, BTMC's managerial capabilities were weak,
and it operated in a very constrained environment. In retrospect, in a
situation involving a public sector with a poor past record, resources and
supervision efforts should have been concentrated on selected mills to which



- 13 -
good managers were posted. in this way 'model' public sector mills might have
been established, and this strategy could have been extended to the other
public mills. At the same time, more specific dated covenants should have
been established, to improve the autonomy/accountability framework of the
public mills. This would have created a more competitive operating
environmient for both the private and public mills,
10.5      Another design weakness was the failure to provide for or request a
formal mid-term review to enable a reformulation of the original project
concept to reflect major physical changes or to include the BMR of machines
which became obsolete during the proposed five year implementation period.
10.6      Considering the past pcor performance of BTMC mills at the time of
appraisal, the spindle productivity and capacity utilization targets (based on
norms in Ildia, Hong kong and Thailand) were optimistic. Moreover, it was
optimistically assumed that BTMC would achieve financial profitability from
FY81 onward, when in fact in the previous 10 years BTMC as a whole only made
profits in two odd years when the ratio of raw material costs to sales was
abnormally low.



- 14 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. ANALYSIS OF KEY ISSUES
1.        The Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project Phase-II originally
comprised BMR of 7 mills which were scheduled for financing under Credits
1477-BD and SF-22-BD. These Credits were signed on July 25, 1984 with the
following conditions for effectiveness to be fulfilled by GOB/BTMC:
(a)    appointment of Industrial Economist;
(b)    appointment of BTMC consultants;
(c)    arrangements for an UNDP productivity Team to assist the private
mills;
(d)    approval of Project Proforma; and
(e)    signing of Administrative Agreements between GOB and GOB/BSRS and
subsidiary loan agreements between GOB and BTMC.
The credit was declared effective June 5, 1985 (i.e. after 14 months) on
fuifillment of the above conditions.
2.        An allocation of SDR 15.042 million was made for 7 mills (namely
R.R, Carillon, Olympia. Magna. Caldera, Eagle Star and Pahartali T.M.) of BTMC
but subsequently two mills, namely Eagle Star and Pahartali, were
denationalized and another mill--Caldera Textile Mills--was removed from the
IDA credit and its BME. was financed under a Dutch Grant. which left a balance
of four mills under this credit.
3.        On completing the necessary formalities for International
Competitive Bidding for the procurement of machinery, including preparation of
tender specifications and obtaining approval by BTMC, GOB and IDA; BTMC
floated international tenders on June 5, 1985 and December 18, 1985 which were
then opened on March 18, 1986. Technical evaluation of the bid documents took
five months (July 1986 to December 1986) and after obtaining BTMC and GOB
approval, these were submitted to the World Bank over the period September
1985 to December 1986. Because of a delay by GOB in fulfilling the six
conditions imposed by IDA for extension of the Credit closing date (Cr. 1205-
BD) by one year to December 31, 1986, the Bank returned the bidding documents
on January 28, 1987 and cancelled the un-utilized Credit amount of SDR
19.158 million effective 1 January, 1987 (total credit amount
SDR 26.10 million) even though the evaluated bid documents for the machinery
for the remaining mills under the project were with the Bank pending approval.
As a result, completion of the balance of BMR works for three mills (Ahmed
Bawany, Dhaka Cotton and eenat Textile Mills) and the entire BMR works for
the mills under TIRP-Phase I became uncertain. Under these conditions, IDA,
on request of GOB, agreed in principle in November 1987 to finance the balance
of work required for these BMR mills out of the unutilized private sector
allocation of Credits 1477-BD and SF-22-BD. As a result both projects
(balance of work under TIRP-Phase 1 and entire work under TIRP-Phase II) were
scheduled for funding under Crs. 1477-BD and SF-22-BD. Due to the inclusion
of the balance of unfinished BKiR work under TIRP-Phase I, the volume of
physical works increased considerably which resulted in an increased
requirement for funds which exceeded the original allocation of SDR 15.042
million for public sector mills under these credits. At the request of GOB,
IDA, in principle, agreed to divert an additional SDR 15.0 million from the



- 15 -
unutilized funds for the private sector to finance the balance of work under
TIRP-Phase II which included BMR of the 15 mills originally included in
TIRP-Phase I subject to fulfillment of five preconditions by these mills.
4.        The total allocation for BMR of 19 BMR mills (15 mills under TIRP-
Phase I and 4 mills under TIRP-Phase II) was SDR 30.042 million (15.042 +
15.00). It should be pointed out that IDA imposed no conditions for
utilization of funds for BMR works for 11 selected mills provided the
amendment letters to the Project Agreement and DCA were siRned by BTMC/GOB
respectively and the credit made effective. These amendment letter were
signed on 27th and 29th April, 1989 by GOB & BTMC respectively, and declared
effective.
5.        For the BMR of the remaining eight mills (19-11 unconditional) BTMC
submitted additional appraisal reports well ahead of time frame previously
approved by the IDA. Despite BTMC's arguments/requests in favor of
implementing the balance of work for eight sub-projects as earlier approved by
IDA, IDA missions visiting Dhaka during 1988-89 and 1989-90 were
uncompromising with respect to implementation of the BMR program approved
earlier by IDA as well as the new proposal by IDA for comprehensive BMR of 2-
3 mills. The missions, ignoring IDA's earlier decision and time constraints
for fresh appraisal and re-appraisals for comprehensive BMR proposal of three
sub-projects forced BTMC to undergo lengthy time consuming appraisal
exercises. The mission members gave BTMC the impression that formulation of
comprehi:' sive BMR although time consuming, would not be difficult to implement
because extension of the Credit closing date would not be a problem. With
this in mind, BTMC undertook fresh appraisal of the three sub-projects which
were revised per instructions by IDA's Resident Mission in Bangladesh and
submitted for approval within the scheduled time. IDA was then only willing
to finance comprehensive BMR of two or three mills on fulfillment of
additional conditions such as:
(a)    Privatization of at least 3-4 successful BTMC mills within 9-
12 months beginning October, 1989 and privatization of 3 sub-
projects within a short period upon completion of the BMR programme;
(b)    inclusion of 2-3 members of the private sector on each enterprise
board;
(c)    giving the Board of sub-project mills the same power available to
Board of Directors under the Company's Act; and
(d)    other conditions such as retaining existing top management for at
least three years, providing additional incentives, full autonomy in
pricing of raw materials, procurement etc.
6.        It is pointed out that GOB agreed on an action program to implement
a considerable portion of these conditions and this program was forwarded to
IDA on time. In response, IDA opined that GOB's program was unlikely to bring
about a fundamental change in the environment in which the public sector mills
operate and, based on this, IDA decided not to extend the Credit closing date.
This action jeopardized TIRP-Phase I and Phase II projects, thereby creating
uncertainty and leaving most of the BMR works incomplete and imbalanced.



- 16
B. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
7.        IDA's original conception was to rehabilitate the war ravaged
textile industry in Bangladesh and indicated an interest in financing a
rehabilitation program over a phased period   In order to ascertain priority
for sub-projects u..der the program, a mill by mill survey was undertaken by
BTMC with arsistance from a UNDP productivity team per IDA guidelines.  The
survey results indicated a need for immediate implementation of BMR for a
large number of existing antiquated units of BTMC. A BTMC/UNDP productivity
team established under guidelines provided by IDA supervision missions,
conducted a techno-economic appraisal of 50 old enterprises to determine
priority for rehabilitation.  After evaluating the appraisal reports for each
of the individual mills, IDA allocated SDR 26.10 million under Credit 1205-BD
to finance Phase I of the project which comprised BMR of 15 mills.  The second
project, Phase II, initially comprised seven mills but only four mills were
selected. The legal documents for .DA Credits 1477-BD and SF-22-BD were
signed on July 25, 1984 subject to fulfillment of certain conditions.  The
credit was declared effective June 6, 1985 after fulfillment of conditions,
which IDA could have waived for the sake of timely implementation of the
project. Again the conditions imposed for extension of the Credit closing
date for Credit 1205-BD were also made applicable for the Phase II project
(Credits 1477-BD and SF-22-BD). Thus, with the termination of Credit 1205-BD
on January 1, 1987, the execution of sub-projects under Phase II were
suspended from January 1, 1987 to October 1987 for reasons best known to IDA.
This caused serious problems for Phase II implementation delaying it by an
additional ten months.  Due to the cancellation of the un-utilized funds under
Credit 1205-BD, GOB requested that SDR 15.00 million be diverted from the
private sector unutilized allocation under Credits 1477-BD and SF-22-BD to
complete the balance of BMR for sub-projects under Phase I.  The decision
regarding reallocation of funds was time consuming and unnecessarily lengthy
due to the Bank's repeated requests to appraise and reappraise the sub-
projects at the final hour of execution, after BTMC had earlier prepared these
after discussion with UNDP experts and IDA missions, who had approved the
same. Moreover, imposition of additional conditions regarding diversion of
private sector funds for completing remaining BMR works unaer the Phase I
project did not reflect the assistance and logical approach of IDA in timely
completion of the project.  With only 15 months left for project completion
after signing the amended DCA, IDA un-compromisingly compelled BTMC to
undertake comprehensive BMR of two-three mills with so many conditions,
knowing full well that implementation of these new programs would not be
possible for BTMC to accomplish within the credit validity period.
8.        Once again, the unconditional allocation of SDR 3.892 million could
not be utilized as IDA came up with additional conditions requiring tenders to
be done under IDA's revised guidelines and bidding procedures, after BTMC had
already completed tendering and evaluation under IDA's previous
guidelines/procedures. Prior to signing the amended PA and DCA, BTMC floated
tenders on December 5, 1988 and February 28, 1989 for procurement of machinery
utilizing the unconditional allocation. After technical evaluation of the
bids and obtaining approval from GOB, BTMC submitted same to IDA on August 9,
1989. IDA, at such a critical point, refused to clear the bids on the grounds
that the tender should be floated again per revised IDA guidelines and
prescribed bidding documents. Accordingly, BTMC invited fresh bids on
November 16, 1989 and after technical and financial evaluation and obtaining
GOB's approval submitted it to the Bank cn March 5, 1990 for clearance. The
Bank in a letter dated May 8, 1990 indicated that extension of the Credit



- 1 7 -
beyond June 30. 1990 was not possible, leaving execution of BMR works for the
sub-projects under TIRP-Phase I and Phase II incomplete. This action created
alarm among BTMC's concerned sub-project mills that most of them were unable
to procure the required productive machinery, such as ring
frames/modernization of ring frames etc., thereby causing the additional
production envisaged in the appraisal report not being achieved after
considerable investment had already been made in the back process sections.
9.        The additional debt burden this decision created on half completed
BMR works will not improve the mills financial performance; rather this has
put the mills in a difficult position with respect to repayment of long term
debt obligations.
C. BANK OFFICIALS
10.       Quite a number of Bank officials, including mission members, were
involved with the implementation of the project. Most missions were composed
of officials with finance and economic backgrounds.  Of the supervision
missions connected with implementation of the project, only three included
members with a textile background. The BMR program of sub-projects under the
projects were designed by representatives from the BTMC/UNDP productivity team
and World Bank textile experts.  At the end of implementation, Resident
Mission members proposed a comprehensive BMR of 2-3 mills against the approved
BMR program for the remaining eight mills which were approved earlier by GOB
and IDA. The revised comprehensive BMR program proposals, imposed by IDA,
were contrary to Government policy and lead to a gross deviation from the
earlier decision of EC/NEC (the highest approving authority of the GOB). The
complex.ties that might arise in connection with approval of such a revised
BMR program by the EC/NEC, in such a short period of time, were explained to
mission members but, surprisingly, they did not seem to pay any attention to
the reasons put forward by BTMC officials. It has always been observed that
in cases of chaiiges in the implementation program and extension of credit
clos;ng dates or diversion of funds from one category of expenditure to
another, the Bank seemed to come up with a complete new set of conditions
thereby hindered progress and inhibiting timely implementation of the
projects.
D. EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE
11.       The Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project Phase II was taken up
for the implementation of BMR cf seven sub-projects for BTMC under Credits
1477-BD and SF-22-BD. Since the carried over BMR programs of Phase I were
mixed up with the fresh BMR program of Phase !I, BTMC, with the consent of the
Bank, followed the same approach of section-wide procurement of machinery
instead of a project-wide procurement approach. This procurement approach
ultimately led to the sub-projects being incomplete, although a considerable
amount of the Credit funds were utilized within the validity period of the
Credit. The denationalization process also posed problems in project
implementation at different stages. Moreover, since the procurement process
was very cumbersome and time consuming, including obtaining GOB and IDA
approval. BTMC could not handle the activities concerned with procurement
processing per the schedule which resulted in an unusual delay in machinery
procurement. To allow for timely implementation of such a project, it would
have been better had the concerned officials of the implementing agency, soon



- 18 -
after signing the Credit been given proper guidelines and training in the
practical problems and conditionalities.
E. ASSESSMENT OF EFFECTIVENESS OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
THE BANK AND THE BORROWER
12.       The relationship between Bank Officials/mission members and
officials of BTMC and GOB were cordial at the personal level. Bank officials,
as a donor, were initially found to be very cooperative in problem solving but
as the execution of the program continued, the Bank officials started to show
rigidity in their attitude to solving problems as well as fulfilling
conditions leading to serious confusion and impediments in project
implementation.
F. BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK - HEAD OFFICE DHAKA
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DEPARTMENT
13.       A Development Credit Agreement for Special Drawing Right (SDR)
21.600 million (Credit No. 1477-BD) and a Special Fund Credit Agreement
(Credit SF-22-BD) for SDR 20.700 million were executed between GOB and IDA on
July 25. 1984. Subsequently, an Administrative Agreement for this project was
signed between the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh and
Bangladesh Shilpa 3ank on 25th April, 1985. As per the Administrative
Agreement, IDA agreed to extend to the Government a Credit, in various
currencies, equivalent to SDR 21.600 million, known as IDA Development Credit
and SDR 20.700 million as Special Fund Credit totalling SDR 42.300 million
(approximately), out of which SDR 26.318 million was earmarked for financing
the BMR of private sector textile mills, on June 6, 1985. Of this amount,
Bangladesh Bank allocated a sum of SDR 13.159 million each to BSB and BSRS.
14.       Sixteen Textile mills from BSB's portfolio were identified for BMR
financing. Of these, two were finally financed and the remaining 14 cases
were either closed or the sponsors did not seek utilization of the credit
facilities for various reasons. Details on the 14 closed cases, giving
reasons for not utilizing the credit facilities, are furnished in
Attachment 1.
15.       The BMR proposals of M/S Eagle Star Textile Mills Ltd., Chittagong
and M/S Jalil Textile Mills Ltd., Chittagong were approved by the former
Investment Board on certain conditions. After fulfilling these conditions,
BSB sent appraisal reports on these projects to the World Bank for approval.
IDA conveyed its approval for withdrawal authorization as follows:-



- 19 -
Nome *nd Location   Date of      Amount of    Amount of loan
of the Projects     Approval  Loan Sanctioned   Approved         Stages of Implwmentation
1. M/S Eagle Star
Textile Mills  d.
Chittagong
1st Phase       11/09/86   Y. 344,318,838   SOR 1,878,000   The complete range of
A         (USS 2,290,130)  machinery imported under the
US2815,758.69                  Phase I BUR Scheme are
(Total                          now under commercial
USS 1,977,727                   operation and Phase II
eqvt. Tk 60.998                 BMR Scheme machinery has
million)                      already undergone
successful trial runs.
2nd Phase       18/0e/89   USS 1,086,743   SDR 878,000
(Eqvt.         (USS 1,086,743)
Tk. 34.880 mln)
2. M/S Jalil Textile          US32,696,981    SDR 2,800,000    All machinery except one
Mills Ltd.                 (Eqvt.        (USS 3,389,048)   simplex fly frame were
Chittagong      14/09/86   Tk. 84.071 min)                shipped within the
extended last date of
Total: USS5,881,461    US86,785,921  negotiation, i.e. 30/10/90.
(Eqvt.         (Eqvt.          Construction is progressing
Tk. 179.95 min)  Tk. 215.09 min)  satisfactorily. The unit
has now requested BSB to
arrange funding for import
of one simplex fly frome
immediately to enable the
unit to implement the
rehabilitation program
successfully.
16.        From funds of SDR 13.159 million only two projects ultimately used
this credit line, amoui,ting to SDR 4.453 million (MIS Eagle Star Textile Mills
Ltd. - SDR 2.596 million and M/S Jalil Textile Mills Ltd. - SDR 1.947 million)
leaving a balance of SDR 8.616 (13.159 - 4.543) million. Per procurement
procedures, the mills prepared bid documents and submitted same to BSB. BSB
sent these to the World Bank Resident Mission for clearance/approval before
publication in the newspaper inviting tenders. Likewise, price proposals were
also first examined by the mills and submitted to BSB; BSB sent those to the
World Bank Resident Mission for decision/approval before obtaining final
quotation and establishment of L/C. Because of the inability of sponsors to
open L/Cs in time and the delayed shipment of machinery, required a time
extension which IDA generously allowed. But even then, M/S Jalil Textile
Mills Ltd., Chittagong, could not utilize the funds for the last shipment of
one simplex machine amounting to IRS. 721,112.00, i.e. US$39,130.00. For
import of this machine, the sponsors requested BSB to arrange funds so the
rehabilitation might be implemented successfully. IDA may consider extending
the validity of the credit line for the said amount, allowing the above
mentioned machinery to be imported by M/S Jalil Textile Mills Ltd.
G. BANGLADESH SHILPA RIN SANGTMA - HEAD OFFICE DHAKA
FINANCIAL RESOURCES DEPARTMENT
17.        A Development Credit Agreement for Special Drawing Right (SDR)
21.600 million (Credit No. 1477-BD) and Special Fund Credit Agreement for SDR
20.700 million (Credit No SF-22-BD) were executed between GOB and IDA on



- 20 -
25.07.1984. Subsequently, an Administrative Agreement for Second Textile
Rehabilitation Project was signed between the Governmet.t of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha on 25th May, 1985.
It was mentioned in the Administrative 4tgreement that IDA agreed to extend to
GOB in various currencies the equivalent of twenty one million six hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,600,000) as IDA credit and twenty
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,700,000) as
Special Fund Credit totalling SDR 42.300 (approximately), of which
SDR 26.000 million (approximately) was earmarked for financing the BMR of the
private sector textile mills, effective June 6, 1985.
18.       Seven textile mills ii BSRS's portfolio were initially identified
for BMR financing, out of which one unit, Chittagong Textile Mills Limited,
Chittagong, was sanctioned a F.C. loan of USS3,000,000 million under Credit
No. 1477-BD on 05.03.86. The remaining six BMR cases were closed for various
reasons (see Attachment 2).
19.       The BMR proposal was approved by the Investment Board on
September 14, 1986 with certain conditions. After fulfilling these
conditions, BSRS sent appraisal reports to the World Bank for approval on
March 31, 1987. IDA in a telex dated the 22nd September 1987 conveyed its
approval for withdrawal of SDR 2.300 million (US$3,000,000 million) in respect
of Chittagong Textile Mills Limited, Chittagong. Subsequently, BSRS requested
approval by the Finance Division, Ministry of Finance, in a letter dated
September 29, 1987. The Finance Division, Ministry of Finance, gave its
approval for BMR financing in a letter dated June 1, 1988. It should be
mentioned here that the last date for disbursement under Credit 1477-BD was
June 30, 1989. The World Bank Resident Mission in Bangladesh communicated the
decision of the last date for disbursements under Credit 1477-BD to June 30,
1990.
Procedural Problems
20.       For financing projects under the IDA credit, project appraisal
reports (PAR) had to be prepared following IDA guidelines. In this context a
preferred presentation format was supplied by the IDA. Following this format,
the PAR was be prepared showing projections for 15 years from the starting
year of the project. Further, for calculating conversion cost and preparing
revenue statements the following had to be calculated:
(a)    Spinning conversion costs had to be allocated to each county in
proportion to the quantity of equivalent 32 Ne year produced;
(b)    weaving conversion costs had to be allocated to each construction in
propcrtion to the number of yards at equivalent 54 picks;
(c)    bleaching, dyeing & printing costs had to be allocated to each
construction in proportion to the number of actual yards processed;
and
(d)    division of fixed and variable costs had to be determined from
mills' records.
Following these guidelines, a detailed and elaborate PAR was prepared in a
totally different format than is normally followed by BSRS. Extra time was



- 21 -
required for BSRS people to become acquainted with IDA guidelines and
calculate the numerous figures necessitated by IDA's guidelines.
21.       In this case, Chittagong Textile Mills Limited, the only eligible
project awaiting IDA funds, could not complete selection of machinery within
the given time limit, i.e., by the 30th June, 1990. Even the same has not yet
been finished by the borrowers, thereby by the Sangstha. As IDA did not agree
to extend the utilization date of the credit line, these funds col'ld not be
utilized.
H. BANGLADESH INSTITUTE OF DEVELOPMENT STUDIES
22.       The two research contracts, secured by BIDS (under the Second
Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project, Credit No. 1477-BD) were bided for
globally. Award of the research contracts to BIDS was a unique example of
utilizing national expertise under technical assistance (TA).
23.       BIDS's in-nouse professionals and consultants labored for two years
to produce a comprehensive and substantive set of reports (each prefaced by an
executive summary) in eight volumes about supply, demand and institutional
aspects of the entire textile sector. For dissemination of the research
output a day-long policy seminar with participation by all concerned parties,
was organized following completion of the Droject. Successful completion of
this research assigrunent within the stipulated time and budgetary limits was
significant. The efficient support services provided by the World Bank, in
this regard, are gratefully acknowledged.
24.       The studies could have been further enhanced had there been a
greater degree of systematic interaction between the Textile Ministry and the
World Bank during the execution phase. Unfortunately, the Textile Ministry,
particularly as a major stakeholder in the studies, gave little input within a
pre-designed institutional format. As a result, the Textile Ministry could
not exploit the research findings to maximum benefit while drawing up the
Textile Policy of 1988.
25.       There was also little professional interaction between BIDS and the
World Bank. BIDS had hoped that as the institutional supervisor, the Bank
would invest in a detailed technical evaluation of BIDS products. The review
by IDA staff was basically confined to an expression of interest as an end-
user of the findings of the studies.
26.       The experience concretely suggests that:
(a)    Under IDA technical assistance, there is scope to successfully
utilize national expertise for high quality professional work;
(b)    there should be in-built mechanism for professional (not regulatory)
interaction between the major stakehol(iers of the project; and
(c)    IDA should equally invest in exploiting the project output as in the
project implementation.



- 22 -
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 1 of 2
DETAXILS OF THE 14 CLOSED CASES SHOWING THE REASONS FOR NOT
AVAILING OF THE CREDIT FACILITY
NAME OF LOCATION
OF THE PROJECTS                           REASONS FOR CLOSURE
M. H/S Al-Haj Textile Mills                  The appraisal report was sent to IDA
Limited, Padna.                          on 05/25/90.  IDA, in a letter dated
07/10/90 did not approve this
project for funding.
2.  MIS Bogra Cotton Spinning Mills          The company had a large liability
Ltd., Bogra.                            with Sonali Bank and could not
submit no objection certificate
(NOC) from said Bank. They also
failed to make required project
deposit with BSB and the case was,
therefore, closed.
3.  M/S Calico Cotton Mills Ltd.,            Sanction was withdrawn when sponsors
Padna.                                   did not complete documentation
formalities.
4.  M/S Mainamoti Textile Mills              Sanction was withdrawn when sponsors
Ltd., Chittagong.                        did not complete documentation
formalities.
5.  M/S Ibrahim Textile Mills Ltd.,          Sanction was withdrawn due to
Chittagong.                              sponsor failing to comply with terms
and conditions of the loan.
6.  M/S Mowla Textile Mills Ltd.,            The loan proposal was closed as the
Dhaka.                                   sponsors would not agree to the pre-
sanction terms and conditions of the
loan.
7.  M/S Raj Textile Mills Ltd.,              The case was closed due to non-
Jessore.                                 regularization of loan A/Cs of other
BSB financed projects.
8.  M/S Habibur Rahman Textile               The case was not considered for
Mills Ltd., Comilla.                     additional financing because of
sponsor's failure to arrive at an
amicable settlement regarding their
swelled-up dues.
9.  M/S Muslin Cotton Mills Ltd.,            The case was not considered for
Kaligonj.                                additional financing because of
sponsor's failure to arrive at an
amicable settlement regarding their
swelled-up dues.



- 23 -
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 2 of 2
NAME OF LOCATION
OF THE PROJECTS                           REASONS FOR CLOSURE
10. M/S Chand Textile (Spinning)            The sponsors were not interested in
Mills Ltd., Dhaka.                      availing themselves of the funds for
BMR of their existing unit.
11. M/S Gawsia Cotton Spinning Mills        The case was not considered for
Ltd., Dhaka.                            additional financing because of
sponsor's failure to arrive at an
amicable settlement regarding their
swelled-up dues.
12. M/S Jabe Textile Mills Ltd.,            The sponsors did not apply formally
Narshingdi.                             for loan co BSB.
13. M/S Halima Textile Mills Ltd.,          The sponsors did not apply formally
Comilla.                                for loan to BSB.
'4. M/S Goalundo Textile Mills Ltd.,        Sponscrs' procurement proposal
Rajbari.                                approved by BSB was sent to IDA for
approval. The amount of procurement
increased to eqvt. US$ 2.28 million
as against IDA approval of
US$ 1.30 million. Considering the
impact of increased cost on project
viability and limited time left
before the closing date of the
credit, IDA did not approve of the
procurement proposal.



BANGLADESH SHILPA RIN SANOSTHA
REASONS FOR CLOSURE OF SIX BMRE PROPOSALS UNDER IDA TEXTILE BMR CREDIT
Si.                               Existing Capacity        Proposed Expansion  Other Components    Current Status
NO.      Name of Mill             Looms      Spindle         Looms   Spindle      of the Project       of the Project               Remarks
1.  M/S Asiatic Cotton Mills    207 Nos   26,808 Nos.   160 Nos   Nil   Small finishing unit  In view of apparent    The equity deposit
Limited, Panchisish,                                                      like calendaring,      excess capacity in        was refunded and
Chittagong                                                               folding A inspect-    the country for             the project
ing.                   finishing of cloth,    proposal was
BSRS Board at its        treated as closed
meeting held on          with effect from
10/27/88 advised to    02/11/87.
process the OMR
proposal without
finishing unit. The
company did not agree
to the proposal and
requested to refund the
part equity deposit
kept with BSRS.
2.  u/S Ashraf Textiles           Nil        37,440 Nos.    Nil        3380            --             The company did not    The proposal was
Mills Ltd., Tongi, Dhaka                                                                          come forward for         closed in October
execution of docu-       1985.
ments.
3.  M/S Afser Cotton Mills        Nil        12,480 Nos.    Nil       12480            --             The company could not  The proposal was
come forward for         closed in March
settlement of their    1988.
post loan liabilities
with the BSRS.
4.  M/S Qussee Cotton Mills       Nil        12,628 Nos.    Nil       9072 Nos         --             The company had to       The proposal was
settle their past        closed in March
loan liabiliti-s with  1988.
BSRS. The company
could not fulfill this
requiremsent.
6.  M/S Serajgong Cotton          Nil        12,400 Nos.    Nil        9800           --              There were disputes    The proposal was
Spinning Mills Ltd.                                                                              among the Directors    closed in August
Serajgong, Padna                                                                                 of the company.  BSRS  1988.
could process the
case only on settlement
of the dispute which
was not done in due time.
8.  M/S Cotton Spinning Co.   204 Nos        20,000 Nos.    Nil       4800 Nos         --                     --                Because of
negative net
worth, BSRS could
not process the
case and treated
it as closed.



- 25 -
PART III:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
No.          Loa,s/Cr.dit                      Purpose                          Year of       Status
Title                                                             Approval
1206-BD      T*xt i ls    Industry             To  rehabilitate  toxtile        1981          Completed
Rehabilitation Project.           capacity of STLC in order
to improve quantity and
quality of output and
improve    institutional
dolivories.
Follow on Project:             None. Because of the GOB'c reluctance to undertake major reforms of
the public sector to mprove environment as to operate public mills
coiaercially, no project is conceptualized  in the next five years
credit pipeline.



- 26 -
TABLE 2: LIST OF PROJECT MILLS
BMR Hills                                               Status of BMR
A.    Public Sector Mills
1.    Original Credit 1477-BD/SF-022-BD
1.    Karilin Silk                                   Partially completed
2.    Monno Textile                                           w
3.    Olympia Textile                                         a
4.    R.R. Textile                                            a
2.    Credit 1205-BD
1.    Ahmed Bawani Textile                           Partially completed
2.    Bangladesh Textile                                  Completed
3.    Chittaranjan Cotton                                     a
4.    Dhaka Cotton                                   Partially completed
5.    Luxmi Narayan Cotton                                Completed
6.    Zeenat Textile                                 Partially completed
Substitute Mills
1.    Amin Textile                                   Partially completed
2.    Bangal Textile                                          i
3.    Chisty Textile                                          a
4.    Dost Textile                                            a
5.    Kokil Textile                                           a
6.    Meghna Textile                                          a
7.    Satrang Textile                                         a
8.    Sharmin Textile                                         a
9.    Tangail Cotton                                      Completed
B.    Private Sector Mills
1.    Eagle Star Textile                           Under implementation 11
(Phase I and II)
2.    Jalil Textile                                           a
1/ Phase I is completed.



_ 27 -
TAM  8:  P0JWT COSTS AMO fNANCI0
A. PwROJr COS
Local      Foreign               Local       foroign
Item             Coots  Eachangn Costs   Total    Cos"  Exchnnge Cost.   Total
BIM  - Private Hil II       7.7        28.7        31.4       2.7         5.6         8.5
am - Public Mills           4.7        17.6        22.3       6.1        16.3        22.4
T'ichnicml Assistaence
ConfuItaniep                0.1         1.4          1.8       -          0.1         0.1
Handloan Study              0.1         0.2          0.3       -          0.2         0.2
Maret Study                 0.1         0 3          0.4       -          0.4         0.4
Total                      12.S        48.2         61.0      8.8        22.6        31.6
1. Sinc  008 provided the sntirs equito contribution. it is pemsu_o that the incremental
working capital for all WflC sills hs been fully provided for.
2. Dooe not include interest during construction (MDA), which was not included in
appraisal estimate. STIC stimatem interest of about IJSU.6 million.
1. PROJWr FD4ICDVS
Actual
Planned                                           as S of
Source          (Croed; A4reeian)                    Actual             Eaeoti_t
Local   Foreign   Total      LosoI   Foreign   Total
MDAjSF  1/             2.9    42.1    45.0          1.1      22.2    2S.3        81.6
LOW                     -       1.0      1.0          -       0.       0.6       60.0
0CoS1CIiI; IIs         9.e      6.1     15.0         7.7       -       7.7       51.8
Totel          12.6    48.2      61.0        6.S      22.6     31.6       51.6
I/ UF: Special Fund



- 28 -
TABLE 4: SUBLOAND RELENDING TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The Credit was relent to BTMC and the participating private Mills
pursuant to Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, inter
alia, on the following terms and conditions:
1.        Interest rates:             14.5Z per annum (for BTMC and the
participating Mills located in developed
areas (as defined by the Borrower)) and
13.3Z per annum (for the participating
Mills located in other areas), all subject
to adjustment, as needed, such adjustment
to yield positive rates in real terms.
2.        Spread to private           2.5Z per annum charge as an administration
sector implem'enting        fee out of interest realizable from each
agencies, BSB and BSRS:   subloan.
3.        Repayment period:           not exceeding 15 years, including a grace
period not exceeding 4 years.
4.        Collateral:                 to be given by the participating Private
Mills.
5.        Foreign Exchange Risk:    to be borne by the Borrower upon payment
of an additional fee of 2.52 per annum on
the principal amounts relent and
outstanding from time to time.



- 29 -
TABLE 5: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date                      Date
Item                          Planned                   Actual
Identification
Preparation                                                   December, 1980
Appraisal Mission                                             September. 1983
Loan/Credit Negotiations                                      April 6, 1984
Board Approval                                                May 22, 1984
Loan/Credit Signature                                         August 25, 1984
Loan/Credit Effectiveness         July 6, 1984                June 6, 1985 1
Loan/Credit Closing               June 30, 1989               June 30, 1990
Loan/Credit Completion            October 31, 1989            June 30, 1990
1/   Loan effectiveness was delayed because GOB did not secure timely
approval of Project Proformas from the Planning Commission and executed
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) with BTMC and Administrative Agreement
with BSR and BSRS.



- 30 -
TABLE  6
Credit Dlsburommnt
Cumlativo Estimated and Actual Disbure.eet.
rus U Million)
Aegroiall I Stimnte                  Actual
Bank Fiscal Yea  quarterly iuim;at-e          X         Qu rO wly   Cumulatlve  Actual X of
and Quarter             Dlabuesnto         Eatimated          Deburieto           Estimated
Sept 1984         0.06         0.06        0.18
Dec  1984         0.06         0.12        0.26
Mar  1986         0.26         0.87        0.82
June 1986         0.26         0.62        1.38
Sept 1986         1.68         2.20        4.89
Doc  1986         2.92         6.12        11.38
Mar 1988          6.28        11.40        25.33
June 1988         7.11        18.51        41.13
Sept 1988         7.45        25.96        67.69
Dec  1988         8.11       32.07         71.27
Mar  1987         8.19       36.26         78.36
June 1987         2.386      37.62         83.60
Sept 1987         1.09       38.71         88.02        0.66        0.65               1.42
Dec  1987         1.09        39.60        88.44        0.63         1.06              2.71
War 1986          1.76       41.68         92.36        1.22        2.30               6.58
June 1986         1.76       43.82         96.27        0.69        2.99               6.90
Sept 1988         0.84       44.18         98.18        6.80        8.29              18.77
Dec  1980         0.84       46.00        100.00        3.38        11.67             26.93
Mar  1989          -         46.00        100.00        8.82        14.99             33.31
June 1989          -         46.00        100.00        1.60        16.49             36.76
Sept ls98          -         46.00        100.00        0.05        16.54             38.04
Dec  1989          -         46.00        100.00        0.68        17.12             38.87
Mar  1990          -         46.00        100.00        0.37        17.49             38.67
June 1990          -         45.00        100.00        3.19        21.68             48.13
Sept 1990          -         46.00       100.00         1.77         28.48            62.10
1



- 31 -
TABLE 7: IDA -vs- GOB's REFORM PACKAGE
Si.                IDA's Proposed Reform             GOB's Reform Program
No.                       Elements
1.           Full or partial (49Z)                  Partial (49Z)
privatization of 3-4 BTMC's           privatization of 1 or 2
successful mills, including 3         mills and further
sub-projects for wh4ch IDA            commitment to partially
funds would be used to                privatize 3 sub-
undertake comprehensive BMR.          projects.
2.           Each Enterprise Board of BTMC          Willingness to include
mills should include 2-3              private sector member in
private sector members.               3 sub-project mills;
numbers to be included
is not mentioned.
3.           Transfer of the sub-project            Not agreed.
mills under Companies Act of
1913, and provide Enterprise
Board the power available
under the Act.
4.           Tmprovements in the operating          Willingness to delegate
environment, preferably for           greater authority on
all mills but least for the            (a) procurement and
mills to be privatized and the         (b) pricing and sale of
future sub-project mills,             yarn to the Enterprise
which include: (i) retained           Board of 3 sub-projects
existing General Managers for         mills.  Further, GOB
at least three years; (ii) an         would take measures to
additional incentive scheme            (a) ensure continuity of
for meeting targeted profit;          services of senior level
(iii) full autonomy in                Officers for at least
pricing; and (iv) full                three years; and (b)
autonomy in raw material              expand incentive scheme.
procurement.



TABLE 8: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicator                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual(or PCR Estimates)          Z of Achievement
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__-----------------------------
a.  Rehabilitation of 15 private              a.  2 private mill's                      13Z
mills.                                        rehaibliation is under
implementation.
Indicator 1
b.  Rehabilitation of 7 public                b.  18 public mills are                2.6 times
mills.                                        rehabilitated (4
completely and 14
partially).
a.  Modernization of 331,360                  a.  A total of 85,056
spindles.                                     spindles is expected to
be modernized (76,464
spindles in public and                   26Z
2592 spindles in private
mills have already been
modernized).
Indicator 2
b.  Installation of 159,640 new               b.  A total of 16,504
spindles.                                     new spindles is expected
to be installed in                       1OZ
private sector (5,320
new spindles have
already been installed).
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------__-----------------------------
Indicator 3        Modernization of 1,376 looms.                  a.  No looms were
modernized.
b. A total of 115 new
looms is expected to be
installed in private
mills. (60 looms have
already been installed).
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------__-----------------------------



- 33 -
TA9LE 9
ndicatara of Project Achi.wvmnt
(Estimated and Actual for Project Mills)
BEFiRE           ESTIKATD            AFrER                 INtCREASE (ECREASE)
8MR             TARCEr              Om              ------------------------
(FY82-PY87)       AFTER OE          (FYi9-FY90)        TARCET             ACTUAL
(1)               (2)               (3)              (4) 1/            (S) 3/
PUHLIC MILLS
SPI1.INIC
CAPACITY UTILIZATION (t)            80.00 (a)         89.00                 83.00             10.50              3.80
PROOUCTION (MILLION LOS)            38.00 (a)         49.20 (a)             40.70             29.30              7.10
SPINXE PRoIICTIVIm                  2.39 (a)          3.09                   2.40             29.30              0.40
(OZ/SHIFT/SPINDlE)
wASTAGE (S)                         9.00 (a)                                 8.40              -              (6.7)
WEAVING
CAPACITy UTILIZATION (5)            72.00 (a)         84.00                 79.00             16.70              9.70
PROOUCTION (MILLION YAF35)          34.30 (a)         41.9 (s)              39.80             22.20              16.00
LOOM PROOUCTIVrTY                   20.76 (a)         25.33                 22.23             22.01              7.10
(YARDS/SNIFT/LO0M)
WASTAGE (1)                         4.20 (a)                                 3.10              -              (26.2)
PRIVATE MILLS
SP>iINC
CAPACITY LUrILUZATION (11)          81.00 (a)            90.00              92.00             10.50              13.60
PROGUCTION (MILLION LOS)            2.90 (a)              3.80               3.50             29.30             20.70
SPINLE PRODUCTIVM                   2.68 (a)              3.47               2.85             29.30              6.30
(OZ/SHiIFT/SPrNXlE)
WASTAGE (S)                         8.20 (a)                                 7.50                             (8.50)
Note: (a): actual
(e): *aprajiel *atumt;
1/ (Col.2 - Col.1) davided by Col.1
2/ (Col.3 - Col.1) devided by Col.1



- 34 -
TA8LE 10
Operational Performance of Public end Privat. Project Mills
(Compsr son *=*ng Coeprehensivs, Non-comprehensie r   N'i l l-)
(All in S)
A. SPINNIC
MILLS VITH COMPLETED OM
----------------------------------M--------  HILLS  WITH
COMPRB'BGIVE   NON-CW.P9e6IVE   TOTAL   IMCOWLEraD   TOTAL
8FE                             -----        BMR        -----
(1 MILL)          (3 MILLS)      (4 MILLS)  (14 MILLS) (18 MILLS)
CAPACrTY UTILIZATION (S)
Incremental Change:
- 8TlC Project Mill  1/                      -3.2                 1.9        0.5          4.7        4.2
- STMC Project Vs Non-Project Mit             -9.1                -4.0       -5.4         -1.2       -1.6
- P,'tK Projest Vs Privs te i I l 3/        -16.52              -11.46    -12.53         -8.59      -9.02
PROOUCTION (MILLION LBS)
Incremental Change:
- STMC Project Mille 1/                        5.0                 5.6        5.5          7.5        7.1
- STMC Project Vs Non-Project Mil             15.0                15.6       15.4         17.4       17.1
- SUC Project V- Private MIte 3           -15.05              -14.45    -14.62        -12.62    -12.97
PRODCTIVmTY (0Z/SHIFrt/SPINLE)
Inereental Change:
- WffC Project Mills 1/                        4 2                -0.9        0.8          0.8        0.4
- SYMC Project Ve Non-Proj ect Hi            16.7                13.6       15.3         15.3       14,9
- 8OlC Project Vs Private Mill1- 3           -2.11               -7.21       -5.5          5.5      -5.92
WASTAGE (C)
Incremental Change:
- 8trC Project Mills I/                       -1.3                 0.1       -0.1         -8.1       -7.0
- SYTC Project Vs Non-Project Mil              4.4                 5.9        5.6         -2.3       -1.3
- STYC Project VY  Private Mills              7.33                8.78       8.52         0.56       1.65
1/   Incremental change is the increaee (or decrease), in the performance meaure  (e.g Spinning Capacity
Utilization) between the Post-8OM  (FY8Q-90) and Pro-OM  (FY82.07) period,. A N egtive change
indicates that compared to all SI  C project mile, the sil'() compared had relative decrease in either
capecity utilization or production or productivity or wastage.
2/ Incremental Chan3s, as defined abovr, in the SNC project mills compared to incremental change in
non -project mills durino the similar period.  A negative change indicates that flC project mills
had rolative decrease in the particular performance indicator compared to non-project mill-.
3/ Incremeted change, s defined above, in tho 8TC project mill  compred to
incremental change in private mills during the similar priod. A negative change
indicateo that SfrC project mill, had relative decreame in particular performance indicator
compared to the private Project *ill-.



- 35 -
TA8LE 10
Operstional  Prformnnce of Puclic and Private Project Mill1
(Cosesrison amng Comprehenisiv. N_-ceeorsheneiv. am 14i l l-)
(All in S)
9. WEAVING
__________                                        1MILLS WITH COMPLE1W GM
--------------------------------  MILLS  WITh
COMPRUGIVE   NON-COMRE6IVE   TOTAL   IMCWLETED    TOTAL
8tR               BM            -----          t          ---
(1 MILL)          (3 MILLS)      (4 MILLS)  (14 MILLS) (18 MILLS)
CAPAcm  UITILIZATION (S)
Increowntal Chenge:
- Project Hills I/                            -2.3                 4.3        2.1         15.6      10.2
- Project Ve Non-Project Mille 2/           -11.3                 -5.2       -7.5          6.1       0.7
PRIXXCTION (MILLION YA1DS)
Incrments I Chance:
- Project Mills 1/                             2.3                10.4        7.4           21         16
- Project Vs Non-Project Mille 2/           -11.6                 -3.6       -6.6          7.1       2.1
PMOOUCTIVIM (YDS/SMIFT/LDO4)
Incrsa.ntel Change:
- Project Mi lla 1/                            3.5                 9.6        9.6            7       7.1
- Project Vs Non-Project Mille 2/           -19.1                  -13      -15.3        -15.6     -15.6
WASTAOE (S)
Increment l Change:
- Project Mil 1e  /                         -31.6                -26.3      -22.9        -25.9     -24.3
- Project Vs Non-Project Mille 2/             -0.9                 54           3          4.7       4.3



- 36 -
TABLE 11
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROJECT MILLS
--------------------------------------------------------
A. NO OF MILLS HAVING OPERATING PROFIT
FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90
Public Mills
No of Mills                  18    18    18    18    18    18    18    18    18
No. of Profitable Mills       1     9    16    13      1     5      2     8     6
No. of Loss Making Mills    17      9     2      5    17    13    16    10    12
Private Mills
o.___2___2                                                   222
No. of Mills                  2     2     2      2     2     2      2     2     2
No. of Profitable Mills             1     2      2     2     2      1 1         2
No. of Loss Makin.g Mills     2     1                               1



-37 -
TABLE 11
0: Inter-Hill Co_arison among Project Mille and
Between Project and Non-Project end Private Mille
BEFORE SW  (FY82-87)                          AFTER bSW  (FY89-FY90)
Not                                          Not
Coat of            Operating                Cost of             Operating
Sales   Salve to  Profit   Profit            Sales  Sales to  Profit   Profit    i of
No. of  Aeet to   Sales  To Sales    (TK             to Assete  Sales  To Sale*    (Tk    Change
Type of rills          Mille    Ratio    Ratio    Ratio  million)            Ratio    Ratio    Ratio  Million) After 8HR
AbL PROJECT MILLS             1B       0.99      0.95     neg.    -138.61           O.6     0.92    nmg.    -38.43         72
PROJECT MILLS WMTh
COPLET9D am                 4          1      0.94     neg.       -14.7          0.9      0.92      nag.    -29.66   -102
a. Non-Comprehensive         3       0.93     0.96      neg.      j17.j9         08.4      0.92      n.e       25.64    -49
b. Coserehena,ve             1        1.2       0 9     0.03        2.48          1.12     0.91      neg.      -4.02   -262
INCOpLETE PROJEIT MILLS    14          0.90     0.95      n.eb      -121.9         0.85      0.92      neg.      -8.77      93
NON-OM MILLS  2/               3       0.88      0.92     neg.        -6.33         1.32     0.93      neg.      -9.08    -70
PRIVATE MILLS 3/                1      0.92      0.81     0.16        15.98         0.98     0.71      0.06      11.11    -30
1/   A marginal imorovement in the rat.o of *sles resulted largely due to a eiQnficiant reduction in raw cotton pricee
in FY89 an4 FY90.  This ham reduced lo ese of the oroject mills by 72%.
2/   Non EH  mi I ll-   These are mi lls for which no 8N  was undertaken since their nationalization in 1972.
3/   Private  i l l: Finenciel date presented here i  for one project si l, in which Phase I of SW was completed in
early 1988; financial inforeation for this mill is available for FY86 and FY89.  For the other Sill. implementation
of PP is expected to be co,aleted in Jwne 1991; financial information for FY89 is partially available, whilt for
the provisional accouht ia yet to be completed.



- 38 -
TA8LE 11
Financial   rforserne of Project Killed
C. Conversion Costs (as S of Seles)
19 Mille
Pro GM             After SW
FY92-8U            FY89-90
(Actual)           (Actul)
Public Mills                                 -
Labour
Other
28                 18
Total                                             -              -
41                 48
Privte mill
Labor                                           12                 15
Other                                           13                  9
Total                                           25                 24
0. Raw sateriel (R/1) Costs (as 7 of Sales)
Public Mills
FY82     FY83      FY84     FY85      F FY88   FY87      FYo8     FY89      FY90  Average
R/N Coat
as lof soles        72       58        Si       63        54       38        45       41        47        3
Private 4ill 1I/
R/M Cost
as S eSof sle       77       67        59       70        50       55       S        47        51       59
1/ Production cost date is analyzed for one will only, for which
the first. phase am one i9laentedl.



-39 -
TABLE 12
Financial Performance of all Public and Private Mills
A. No of Mills Showing Profit/Loss
FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90
Public Mills
No. of Mills                     40    30    33    36    37    38    37    39    39
No. of Profitable Mills           2    14    25    17       3    10      6    17    10
No. of Loss Making Mills         28    16      8    19    34    28    31    22    29
Private Mills 1/
1lo. of Mills                     -     -      -    21    21    21    21    18    18
No. of Profitable Mills           -     -      -    11      6     8      5     4      5
No. of Loss Making Mills          -     -      -    10    15    13    16    14    13
B.  No of Mills Meeting Financial Ratio Covenants  2/
Public Mills
____________
Debt/Equity Ratio                21    19    19    20    19    21    21    10    11
Current Ratio                     3     5      2     2      4     6      5     8      4
No. of Mills with negative
Equity Ratio                    7     6      4     4      8    10    15    14    20
Private Project Mills
_____________________
Debt/Equity Ratio                 2     2      2     2      2     2      2     2     2
Current Ratio                     -     1      1     1      2     1      -     2      2
No. of Mills with negative
Equity Rate                              -      -     -      -     -         -     -
____________
1/   Information on private mills are obtained from Bangladesh Textile Mills
Association (BJMA).  Information obtained is not complete for all private
mills, therefore, the number of profitable mills given here is based on
reporting mills.



- 40 -
TABLE 13: FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING
AAA. Cash Infusion and Conversion of ADP Loan to Equity for BTMC Mills
(FY 82-89)
(Tk. Mlillion)
Annual            Actual Contribution                         X of
Year                   Contribution  Cash Infusion  Conversion             Total    Estimated
=                 =======        =====_      =   =    =  =   = -,= =  =  =  =  = -     == ======  = =
FY82                         250.0            135.0               -           135.0       54
FY83                         250.0            149.0               -           1.49.0      60
FY84                         240.0            200.0             513.0         713.0      297
FY85                         240.0            150.0               -           150,0       63
FY86                         200.0            259.0             200.0         459.0      230
---  ---  ---  --- ---  ---  ---  ---  ---  ----  ---  ---  ---  ---  ---  ---  -  _ -_- _ -_
Sub-Total  (FY82-86)    1,180.0               893.0             713.0      1,606.0       136
--    - -  - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  -  -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - - -  - _-_-          _
FY87                           -              164.0              -            164.0        -
FY88                           -               92.0                            92.0
FY89                           -               92.0              -             92.0        -
FY90                                            134.0                                 132.0    -
--   - -  - -  - - -  - -  - --  - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  --  - -  - - -  - -  -       ___
Sub-Total  (FY87-90)           -              482.0             713           482.0        -
--  -- ---  --  ---  -- ---  --  ---  -- ---  --  ---  --  ---  -- ---  --  ---  --_  -- --
TOTAL   (FY82-90)         1,180.0          1,375.0              713          2088.0      177
--   -- -  --  - --  - --  - --  - --  - --  - --  -  -- -  --  - --  - --  - -_  - --  -   _



- 41 -
TABLE 14: FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN OF PRIVATE MILL 1/
Project       Annual Benefit
Cost            Stream                    FRR(Z)
(Tk. Million)    (Tk. Million)       Appraisal  Actual
(1)              (2)                (3)       (4)
Eagle Star Textile             83.38               12.53            29.0        18
1/ Revised ERR has not been calculated because these are not likely to be too
different from the revised IRR.
Underlying Assumptions:
1.   Project life is considered for a period of 15 years.
2.   All project costs are assumed to be incurred in one year, prior to the
year when project benefit started to flow.
3.   Project benefits are calculated on the basis of incremental production
before BMR (FY82-87) and after BMR (FY88-90).
4.   Net profit margin (i.e. net benefit) has been estimated at 20Z of sales.
Tihis is based on average net profit margin for last two years (FY88-90).
5.   Price premium of yarns is assumed to be an average of 5Z of the total
gross sales.
6.   Annual benefit steam (Col. 2) comprises two benefit streams:
(i) increment productinn (Item 3) x net profit margin (Item 4) x FY90
unit sales price; and (ii) FY90 gross sales x price premium (Item 5).
7.   No salvage value of the project is considered.



- 42 -
TABLE 15
Cou..e.t.v. 00orstiorfi Perforeance of
Public and Peivate Sector 1Hill- (FY1.-O0)
Public Mill           Private Mill*
SPINN4I
Capacity utilizatiwi (1)                                         76                       83
Production (Mill lb*)                                            so                   47.97
Producti'nn/Spindlo/Yoor (lb-)                                147.3                   117.3
Production/Work.r/Y.ar (lb.)                                   2360                    2338
Soindle Productruly (oz/sh ift/wPindle)                        2.62                    2.09
WEAVING
Capacity utilisation (S)                                         75                       62
Production (Mill. m*tor)                                      43.48                   23.87
Production/Laoo/Year (a/year)                                 16027                   12349
Loco productrul (m/loou/ohift)                                20.03                   13.72



- 43 -
TABLE 16:   TA STUDIES
TA Studies
Volum             stu "                            Purpose               Status            Impact of
oNo,                                                                                       the Study
Bangladesh Handloom Soctor Study
1.     Bangladesh  landloe.              Examines structural (loom       ComplOtAX  n      Partly implemented.
Induotry: Annlysis of its        and product use, labor         February 1988    Some of tho
Structural Adjustment,           use pattern, etc) and                             recommondation of
Rolativo Efficioncy and          financiol (rate of                                this study In the
Strategic Options for            roturne) foatureo and                             Textilo Policy, 1988
Future Developoent               Institutional deliveries
of the handloom sector.
II.     Bangladesh Handloom              Anolyeis of nominal and         February 1988    Not Implemented
Industry: Analysis of            *ffective rates of
Finance, Assistance Policy       protection and credit
and Financial                    relations.
Instrumentalities for the
Development of Handloom in
Bangladesh.
III.    Bangladesh Handloom              Providoe technological          February 1988    Not implomented
Industry: Towards Achieving      instrumentalitios to
a More Productive                revive the sector,
Technologiceal basis.            focussing on skill
development, product
standardization and
production foasibility.
IV.     Market Structure of Imports      Provideo Character of           February 1908    Not implemented
and output, Marketing            markets, markoting
Potential and                    ralitios and potential
Instrumntalities.                Including export.
V.      An Investment Program for        Present six interventions       October 1988      Party Implemented
Bangladesh Handloom              on investment proj3ets
Industry.                        involving institutional
reorganization, loom
modern Izaton,
Improvement of product
design, entreprenourial
skills, marketing and
institutional supports.
Consumer Demand and Market Survey.
I.      Domestic Doemnd for Textile      Estimates level and             October 1988      Not implemented
Products in Bangladesh - an      composition, analyses
Exercise Into its Evolving       determinants and provide,
Structure.                       projection of textile
demands upto years 2000.
II.    Bangladesh's Textile              Examines performance of         October, 1988    Not implemented
Economy and World Market a       garmnts Industry and
mid Evolving Trade               external environment
Regulation,                      facing export expansion
of garments, fabrics and
yarn.
III.   Understanding Prices and          Formulates a model of           October, 1988    Not impleonted
Reforming Pricing Policies       textile sector in
for Textiles in Bangladesh.      Bangladesh; deals with
Issues of price formation
and competitive structure
of the fabric market; and
puts forward a pricing
policy for the textile
sector.



- 44 -
TABLE 17:   USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff Week)
Stage of
Project Cycle               Planned            Final
Through Appraisal                              81.8
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                 16.1
Supervi sion                                   83.6
TOTAL                                     181.5
-----------------   --------------   _-- --_  _ -----------



_ 45 -
TABLE 17: MISSION DATA
Stage of       Month/   Number of SW in   Specialiaation   Performance  Types of
Project Cycle  Year     Persons   Field   Repreoentod         Rating        Prob I sm
Preparation    01/83        4         2    Economist
Financial Analyst
Textile Engineer
Pro-appraisal  06/83        3         3    Financial Analysts
Textile Engineer
Appraisal      09/83        4         3    Economist
Financial Analysts
Toxtile Engineer
Post-Appraisal 02/84        4         2    Economist                        - Cost estimate of private mills
Financial Analyst               - Revaluation of assets of
Toxtile Enrineer                  private mills
- request for TA fund for
Handloom sector study.
Follow-up      08/84        4         3    Financial Ana ysto               - Appointment of Industrial
Textile Engineer                  Economist.
Economist                       - approval of project proforms
- Signing of SLA betwen OB
and BSB/BSRS.
Supervision    10/84        3         3    Financial Analysts      NA       - approval of PP
- Signing of SLA
- Funding arrangement with UNOP
for (a) Handloom, (b) market
study and (c) productivity
tem.
Supervision    03/85        2         3    FInsncial Analysts        NA     - Signing of SLA
- UNDP funding agreement
- signing of administrative
agrement.
08/86        1         1    Financial Analysts       2      - Slow impleiontation of recomm-
ondation of Environment
Pollution Control Department
- Slow start of Handloom sector
study.
- slow properation of tender
documents.
03/88        2         2    Financial Analysts       4      - Project Implementation
is slow
- Slow in granting autonomy
authority to STMC enterprises
- rosponse of private sector
to undertake 8MR Is poor.
0/ST        2         2    Financial Analysts       4      - BTUC Is slow in impleomnting
- autonqy/incentive package
- Credit utilization by the
private sector is slow.
- GOB slow in settlement of
liabilities of liquidated
mills.



- 46 -
0418        3          1    Financial Analysts       4       - b oo in impls_mntation of
Textile  Specialist               tho policy component.
- slov credit utilization
- Poor response from tho private
soctor
- Handloom and Market studios
are behind schedule.
10/88       2         1    Financial Analyst        4       - delay in signing amendment
Textile Specialist                letter enabling transfer of
fund and extension of credit
- slow project implementation
- poor financial performance.
12/89       2         1    Textile Specialist               - slow procurement
Flnancia  Analyst               - 4'3'a reluctance to agree
on a roform package
enabling privatization of
som -TMC mil ls a and
providing enterpriseos
autonomy.
Final           07/90       2         2    Textile Specialist       4       - slow procure- nt
Supervision                                 Financial Analyst               - poor utilization of
credit by public and private
sectors.



- 47 -
TABLE 18: STATUS OF COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS
Covenant                                            Statue
1. ection 3.01 DCA (): The Borrower declares
its commi  nt to the obj ctive of the Project
as set forth in Schedul- 2 to this Agreemnt
and, to this end will:
Part A:      Balance Modernize and Replacemnt          Part A
facilitiSt at (I) about 7        Public milln, and     N_u-br  of  mills  for  which  BMR  will  be
(ii)  about  16  Private  mills  through  (a)          undertaken  was  amended  on  April 27,  1989
carrying out of renovation and extension works          replacing the numbers 175 and ,165 by '22  and
and (b) provision of equipment, spare part,            *6 respectivoly for public and private sector.
raw materials and othar facilities.                    Utilization of Credit, particularly by private
sector;  is disappointing.   Only  two mills
availed the Credit.
Part B:      Technical Assistance and Studies          Part a
Provision of consult nto services to assist in:
(i) carrying out Part A (ii) of the Project:           (i) Implemented.
(ii)  improving production management system           (ii) Implemnted.
within tho Private mills
(iii) carrying out a handloom sector study:            (iii)  Study  carried  out  by  BIDS;  report
completed.    Implementation    of    the
recommendations provided in the study report
has not been undertaken.
(iv) conducting a market and                           (iv)  Study  carried  out  by  BIDS;  report
demand survey: and                                     completed.    Implementation    of    the
recommondations made in the study report has
not been undertaken.
(v) carrying out inservice training at the             (v) Training of STMC mid-level technicians in
Savor Training Institute                               batches had been contuning at tho Institute.
2. Section 4.01 DCA (c):  The Borrower shall:          Separate audit reports for each of the  19
(i) -haehe Maccounts for each fiscal year              project mills were submitted in april 1990.
audited,   in  accordance  with  appropriate           Audited  report  for  FY89  and  provisional
auditing principles consistently applied, by           accounts for FY90 for entire BTMC are rec,ived
independent   auditors   acceptable   to   the         in October, 1990.
Association; (;i) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but In any case not later
than six months after the end of each year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
such auditors, of such scope and In such dot il
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested.
3. Section 4.02. (a): By September 30, 1984, or        Report submitted to BTMC but implemntation of
such lter date as the Association may agree,           findings are considerably behind schedule.
furnish or cause to be furnished to tho
Association for ito comente the findings and
recommendations baosd on the rosults of the
review   carried   out   by   the   Borrower's
Environmental Pollution Control Dopartment and



