Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                  i.
Report No. P-3801-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 21.6 MILLION
AND
A PROPOSED SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 20.7 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 1, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation
to a basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as interven-
tion currency. On February 23, 1984, the official exchange rate was set at
Tk 25.17 buying and Tk 25.23 selling per US dollar. Unless noted otherwise,
the rates shown below have been used throughout this report:
US$1             -  Tk 24.75
Tk 1             -  US$0.04
Tk 1 million    -  US$40,404
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB     -    Asian Development Bank
ADP     -    Annual Development Program
BHB     -    Bangladesh Handloom Board
BMR     -    Balancing, Modernization and Replacement
BSB     -    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSRS    -    Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
BTMA    -    Bangladesh Textile Mills Association
BTMC    -    Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
EFAS    -    Exchange Rate Fluctuation Burden Absorption Scheme
ERR     -    Economic Rate of Return
FY      -    Fiscal Year
GDP     -    Gross Domestic Product
GOB     -    Government of Bangladesh
IEC     -    Import Entitlement Certificates
MOIC    -    Ministry of Industry and Commerce
SFYP    -    Second Five Year Plan
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program
UNIDO   -    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
WES     -    Wage Earners Scheme
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
GOB     July 1 - June 30
BTMC    July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND TEXTILE INDUSTRIY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiary:       About 15 private sector textile mills and ab-;ut 7 public
sector textile milLs under the direction and control of the
Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC)
Amount:            SDR 21.6 million (US$23.0 million equivalent, IDA Credit
and SDR 20.7 million (US$22.0 million equiva!ent) Special.
Fund Credit
Terms:             Standard
Relending          US$27.0 million equivalent of the proceeds of the proposed
Terms:           Credit would lbe onLent to about 15 participating private
sector mills, at an interest rate of 14.5% p.a. (13.5% p.a.
for mills located in non-metropolitan area) with the
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) and the Bangladesh Shilpa Rin
Sangstha (BSRS) acting as the administrative agents of the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB). US$16.7 million equivalent
of the proceeds would be onlent to BTMC at an interest rate
of 14.5% p.a. which would in turn relend this amount at
the same rate to about 7 public sector mills designated
for rehabilitation. The subloans to private and public
sector mills alike would be repaid to GOB over periods not
exceeding 15 years, including a grace period of up to 4
years. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOB
against a fee of 2.5% p.a. which would be paid by the
participating mills. BSB/BSRS would be paid an administra-
tive fee of 2.5% p.a. by GOB, in the form of deductions
from interest payments received on the loans to the private
sector mills. The remaining portion of the Credit (US$1.3
million) would be retained by GOB for technical assistance
to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MOIC).
Project            The project is a continuation of an earlier credit
Description:      (Cr. 1205-BD) and seeks to increase the efficiency and
capacity utilization of existing textile mills in both the
public and private sectors, through balancing, modern-
ization and replacement (BMR) of existing facilities.  The
project would provide for market and feasibility studies
necessary to support moves toward adoption of new produc1:
lines, and to assist in the elaboration of GOB's strategy
for the further development of the textile sector. The
project would also provide training in order to relieve the
shortage of adequately trained techno-managerial manpower.
The project would face no unusual technical risks.
Perceived weaknesses in the plan preparation and appraisal
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
capacity of BSB and BSRS have been addressed. Most of the
BMR plans have already been prepared with assistance from a
UNDP/UNIDO team, and BTMC textile engineers. Based on its
previous experience in subproject appraisals of this type,
IDA has prepared detailed guidelines for the BSB/BSRS
appraisal teams, and each subproject would be reviewed by
IDA prior to final approval.
Estimated
Project                                               (US$ million)-----
Costs:                                           Local   Foreign   Total
BMR - Private Mills               7.7      28.7     36.4
BMR - Public Mills                4.7      17.6     22.3
Market Study                      0.2       0.3      0.5
Training                          0.1       0.4      0.5
Handloom Sector Study             0.1       0.2      0.3
Productivity Team                 -         1.0      1.0
Total                          12.8     48.2      61.0
of which Duties and Taxes       6.5      -         6.5
FinancinR
Plan:            Source:                         Local   Foreign   Total
IDA a/                            2.9     42.1      45.0
UNDP                              -         1.0      1.0
Mills                             9.9       5.1     15.0
Total                          12.8     48.2      61.0
Estimated
Disbursements: a!                      FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Annual                 0.6   17.9   19.1    5.7    1.7
Cumulative             0.6   18.5   37.6   43.3   45.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       24% on average (based on six appraised sub-projects)
Staff Appraisal   Bangladesh - Second Textile Industry Rehabilitation
Report:          Project, April 25, 1984
MLap:              IBRD 17804
/a Including a Special Fund allocation of US$22.0 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit of SDR 21.6 million (the equivalent of US$23.0 million)
and a proposed Special Fund credit of SDR 20.7 million (the equivalent of
US$22.0 million) to the People's Republic of Bangladesh, on standard IDA
terms to help finance a Second Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project.
US$27.0 million equivalent of the proceeds of the proposed credits would be
onlent to about 15 participating private sector mills, at an interest rate of
14.5% p.a. (13.5% p.a. for mills located in non-metropolitan area) with the
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) and the Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BSRS)
acting as the administrative agents of the Government of Bangladesh (GOB).
US$16.7 million equivalent of the proceeds would be onlent to the Bangladesh
Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC) at an interest rate of 14.5% p.a. which
would in turn relend this amount to about 7 participating public sector mills
at the same rate. The subloans to private and public sector mills would be
repaid to GOB over periods not exceeding 15 years, including a grace period
of up to 4 years. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOB against a
fee of 2.5% p.a. which would be paid by the participating mills. BSB/B!,RS
would be paid an administrative fee of 2.5% p.a. by GOB, in the form of
deductions from interest payments received on the loans to the private 1sector
mills. The remaining portion of the Credit (US$1.3 million) would be
retained by GOB for technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce (MOIC). The UNDP would provide a grant of US$1.0 million equivalent
to finance part of the technical assistance component of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Economic Trends and
Development Administration," (Report No. 4822-BD, dated February 27, 1984)
has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with very high population density and widespread
poverty (annual income per head averages about US$140 at present). The
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the BWDB Small Schemes Project (Report
No. P-3770-BD) dated April 12, 1984.



economy, dominated by agriculture, remains acutely vulnerable to disruption
by both natural and erternal factors. Considerable progress has been made in
increasing the availa-ility of irrigation and other inputs, but foodgrain
production remains heavily dependent on weather conditions and falls short of
total needs. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability complicate fiscal
management due to the need to manage public foodgrain stocks and often impose
an additional strain on the balance of payments.
4.      The economy is also characterized by very low savings, reflecting the
low level of incomes, and by a very large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings accoi.at for only a small fraction of investment (which has
averaged around 16% of GDP in recent years). Export earnings cover less than
30% of the import bill, and over 60% of merchandise exports are accounted for
by raw jute and jute goods. The resource gap of around 15% of GDP is
financed bv workers' .emittances, which have risen rapidly to over 5% of GDP
in recent years, and by foreign assistance of around 10% of GDP per year.
The capacity for imports can be sharply affected by a combination of factors
which are beyond the control of the Government and whose disruptive effect on
the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of the Government's revenue
base on import duties and sales taxes (together accounting for 60% of tax
revenues).
5.      In spite of these problems, tlhe late 1970s were a period of political
stability and economic consolidation and provided an opportunity to plan for
longer-term development. GDP growth of close to 6% p.a. from FY75 to FY80
was accompanied by rising public investment, financed by a substantial real
increase in aid disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and exter-
nal events during FY81 and FY82 disrupted the momentum of development. The
corrective actions taken in FY83 have, however, be,en reasonably successful in
stabilizing the short-term external and budgetary situation and, despite the
severe limits on available resources, there are prospects for renewed modest
economic growth.
Recent Economic Developments
6.      From FY80 to FY82, a sharp decline in export prices of raw jute and
jute products and of major non-traditional exports., combined with rising
import prices (especially for petroleum) to cause a decline of over 30% in
Bangladesh's terms of trade. At the same time, external aid inflows, which
had risen steadily until FY80, declined in FY81; they recovered in FY82, but
only to 4% above FY79 flows in real terms. Prolonged drought adversely
affected the FY82 and FY83 crops. The shortfall in FY82 foodgrain production
(0.4 million tons or 3% below FY81 levels) led to high food prices and a
substantial run-down of public sector foodgrain stocks to well below the
level considered sufficient for food security. Substantial commercial
foodgrain imports were required, imposing further strain on the balance of
payments, while reduced agricultural production and incomes depressed demand
and activity in other sectors.



-3-
7.      During FY81, the Government attempted to cope with the intensifying
external resource constraint by resorting to short-term commercial
borrowings, short-term deposits from and currency swaps with other centra'L
banks, some run-down of reserves, and assistance from the IMYD under an
Extended Financing Facility (EFF) arrangement concluded in December 1980.
However, the EFF arrangement was suspended in July 1981, as the Government
incurred a large bank-financed budget deficit and credit ceilings agreed 'With
the IMF could not be met. In FY82 the Government sought to contain import
growth through a variety of measures, including a substantial depreciation of
the Taka by 22% against the US dollar. Nevertheless, despite an increase in
workers' remittances, from $210 million in FY80 to over $400 million in FY82,
and further short-term borrowing, foreign exchange reserves Cleclined to about
US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks' imports) by tie end of FY82.
8.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate also P'd a major
adverse impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82. Goveament receipts
of local counterpart funds were reduced as a result of declining commodity
aid flows, as were its receipts from import duties and sales taxes. These
problems were exacerbated by inadequate financial planning and by poor finan-
cial performance of public enterprises, due to low levels of efficiency and
delays in increasing sales prices. A budget deficit of Tk 5 billion (2.5% of
GNP) emerged in FY81, even though the Annual Development Program (ADP) was
cut back by 12% in the second half of FY81. Despite a similar cutback in the
FY82 ADP, recourse to substantial bank financing was avoided only because of
a run-down of public food stocks following poor harvests. Nevertheless, a
sharp rise in foodgrain prices in mid-FY82, combined with the inflationary
pressures caused by exchange rate depreciation and a rapid expansion of
domestic liquidity in late FY81, resulted in a 15% rise in the consumer
prices during FY82.
9.      The Government introduced a wide range of austerity measures with its
FY83 budget (in July 1982), designed to adjust the economy to the serious
resource constraints. Development expenditure plans for FY83 were reduced by
nearly 20%, in line with expected resource availabilities, and the increase
in recurrent expenditures was limited to 14%, only slightly above the
forecast inflation level. The Government also introduced new tax measure!s
designed to yield about 0.5% of GDP in FY83. In addition, a number of sub-
stantial subsidy and pricing adjustments were made to reduce consumption,
protect investments and to improve the financial performance of public sector
enterprises and utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing and subsidy
reduction measures amounted to an impressive 2.3% of GDP. Measures were also
taken to improve balance of payments management, including a further 11%
depreciation of the exchange rate during FY83, higher import duty rates,



-4-
financing the import of more commodities through the Wage Earners' Scheme,l/
abolition of selected export duties and improvements in export financing.
IMF assistance to Bangladesh was resumed under a Stand-by Arrangement in
March 1983 which covered the period until August 1983.
10.     While these measures were effective in helping to restore short-term
economic stability, their effect, combined with depressed private sector
demand following poor harvests during 1982, resulted in low GDP growth (2.4%)
in FY83, following a 1.5% decline in FY82. The budgetary situation in FY83
was satisfactory, due to resource mobilization efforts, the depreciation of
the Taka which largely offset the negative budgetary impact of reduced import
volumes, further foodgrain sales, and increased commodity aid disbursements.
The balance of payments was helped by a recovery in aid levels, better terms
of trade resulting from lower petroleum and food import prices, depressed
import volumes, and a further growth of remittances to around US$600 million.
Foreign exchange reserves increased to US$340 million, representing about six
weeks' import equivalent, by the end of FY83. Following good winter crops,
foodgrain production for FY83 reached a record 15.1 million tons and infla-
tionary pressures eased. While the short-term outlook has improved, the
resource constraints remain severe, calling for a continuation of cautious
macro-economic policies and consistent efforts to strengthen the productive
sectors, and further resource mobilization.
11.     The FY84 budget reflects the need to consolidate the gains made last
year and to set the stage for a broadened domestic revenue mobilization
effort in the future. The total tax effort is expected to increase from
about 8.3% of GDP in FY83 to 9.0% in FY84.  Domestic taxes, which accounted
for 3.6% of GDP in FY83, will generate only 3.4% of GDP in FY84 (mainly due
to the rapid growth in the lightly taxed agricultural sector in FY84), but
new tax measures have been introduced whose full revenue impact will be felt
only in FY85 and thereafter. Recurrent expenditures will again be tightly
controlled, and the current budget surplus should increase substantially.
The ADP is budgeted at over Tk 34.8 billion (57O higher in real terms than
the actual FY83 ADP). Resources not generated by external aid inflows will
finance 19.2% of the ADP: this represents only 2.2% of GDP and highlights
the urgency of mobilizing more domestic resources for development financing.
A Core Program of 435 projects has been specified, accounting for 73% of the
ADP and providing ample room for adjusting expenditures to actual resource
availabilities.
1/ Under the Wage Earners' Scheme (WES), foreign exchange earnings
remitted by Bangladeshi workers abroad are sold in auction to importers
requiring foreign exchange.



-5-
Development Planning and Policy Issues
12.     The Second Five-Year PLan for FY81-85 accords highest priority to
to (i) reducing population growth from the present rate 2.6% p.a.,
(ii) achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency, (iii) eliminating mass illiteracy,
and (iv) accelerating domestic energy development. IDA has assisted the
Government in preparing the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP)
which aims at increasing foodgrain production to 20 million tons. Foodgrain
self-sufficiency could be achieved by the end of the decade with appropriate
producer incentives, resources to provide needed inputs to farmers, and all
expanded role for the private sector in the provision and servicing of modern
agricultural implements and inputs. Given Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate
(74%), the Plan's emrhasis on primary education is well founded, but the goal
of achieving universal primary education by 1985 is unattainable in view of
resource and manager: l constraints. Prospects for achieving the objectives
of educational expansion and improved foodgrain availability would be
improved by success in reducing the population growth rate; this will require
more determined efforts than have been made thus far, especially with regard
to birth control efforts which have suffered from poor implementation and
have had only limited success. The Government has recently taken steps tD
coordinate its birth control activities and to strengthen training programs
for field staff. A medium-term implementation plan for the population sector
is currently being prepared with Bank assistance.
13.     There is an urgent need to develop the country's energy resources.
particularly natural gas, since imported petroleum at present pre-empts about
three quarters of merchandise export earnings. Ongoing and planned invest-
ments in the energy sector are designed to increase the production, distribu-
tion and utilization of natural gas as a substitute for imported fuel,
including studies aimed at determining the potential for future investments
in gas-based export industries. The recently approved Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project will assist the Government to appraise more fully the
country's gas reserves, determine the optimal pace of exploitation, and help
renew the interest of foreign oil companies to resume the search for oil.
Since the required investments are likely to be capital-intensive and lumpy,
they would need to be properly planned under a phased priority program. The
Government is now endeavoring (with ADB assistance) to formulate an
appropriate energy sector investment program. The implementation of
appropriate energy conservation measures and the setting of energy prices at
economically efficient levels will also be critical.
14.     There is also an urgent need to address directly the growing problems
of rural poverty and unemployment.  Fifty percent of the rural population is
functionally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated sig--
nificantly since the 1970s with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force
finding gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not
suffice to resolve the unemployment: and income problems, in view of the large
projected growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneous:Ly,
therefore, to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry



-6-
and non-foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the :industrial sector -- espe-
cially small-scale and cottage industries -- so that incomes generated in one
sub-sector will generate effective demand for the output of others.
15.     Studies of the industrial sector have highlighted the distorting
effects of existing trade and industrial policies on resource allocation in
the sector. An ongoing program of studies is expected to lead to a medium-
term program of actions to be implemented -- including modifications in the
existing tariff structure, domestic indirect taxation, investment incentives,
export policies, and the mechanisms for industrial promotion and planning.
The Government's New Industrial Policy, announced in 1982, provides for a
greater role of the private sector in economic development.  Many of the key
elements of this policy are already being implemented, including the divest-
ment of major segments of the jute and textile industries to the private
sector.
16.     The Government has revised the Second Five-Year Plan in the light of
the sharp deterioration of the external environment, and its recent Annual
Development Programs (ADPs) have reflected more realistic assessments of
likely resource availability. A "core program" of projects amounting to
around 75% of the ADP has been identified to ensure that high-priority
activities are not disrupted by possible further adjustments to changing
circumstances. This approach has already helped project implementation
during FY83, but it should be recognized that the investment program is
extremely small in relation to the total needs cf the economy. As external
assistance will continue to be constrained, there is an urgent need for a
sustained and intensive domestic resource mobilization effort, consistent
with the initiative taken in the FY83 budget to raise tax revenues, reduce
subsidies and improve the financial performance of public enterprises. In
the medium term, the tax base will have to be broadened to reduce its present
dependence on import duties, thereby improving the elasticity of the tax
system. In addition, private savings should be stimulated through a con-
tinuation of appropriate interest rate policies and improvements in the
banking and credit system.
17.     Realization of the Government's objectives will also require improve-
ments in development administration. There is a critical need to strengthen
the capacity for policy formulation and project implementation, streamline
administrative procedures, and improve decision making processes.
Recognizing that local government bodies can play an effective role in the
development effort, the Government has decided to decentralize a number of
planning and administrative functions to the up-graded Thana (Sub-District)
level. Accordingly, sub-district administrations are being reorganized and
strengthened to enable them to take on most development activities at the
local level. The implementation and impact of this policy will need to be
closely monitored.



-7-
External Debt
18.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium- and long-term (M&LT) debts has not
been a major problem in the past, but will become a heavier burden in the
next few years as debts incurred in the first years after independence are
increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments on external
public M&LT debt are expected to rise from 6.8% of export earnings (goods and
services, including workers' remittances) in FY82 to 11.8% in FY84 and 13.7%
in FY86. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debt servicing obligations
will remain modest over this period, rising slowly from 9.7% of the total in
FY83 to 10.9% in FY86. The Bank Group's share of total debt outstanding and
undisbursed is projected to increase from 30.4% in FY82 to 36.3% in FY86.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
19.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$146.2 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan (US$54.9 million) and credit
(US$31.04 million) to cover liabilities arising from projects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence were approved in 1974. As of
September 30, 1983, 72 new credits have been approved, totaling US$2,400.64
million; of these, US$862.03 million have been for import credits (eleven
imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of
September 30, 1983. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of the IFC,
and two investments (for a shipbuilding company and an investment promol:ion
company) have been approved.
20.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculcture
(22 of the projects approved as of September 30, 1983, and two fertilizer
import credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the
Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer
transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage
facilities. In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being
placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which
facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks constraining
the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is
assisting in rural electrification and elimination of shortages of generation
capacity and distribution facilities which have been a major impediment to
utilization of existing industrial capacity. Assistance for developing
telecommunications is designed to improve the efficiency of a wide-range of
economic and social activities.



-8-
21.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eleven imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project, a
textile industry rehabilitation project, several DFC and small-scale industry
projects and two IFC investments.
22.     The enormity of Bangladesh's populatioln problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also cruc:ial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
23.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA
and GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision
in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assis-
tance both under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to
improve planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
24.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a portion of local currency expenditures.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Structure of the Sector
25.     Although accounting for only 9% of GDP at present, the industrial
sector is an important element in the Bangladesh economy. It produces basic
consumer goods, supplies agriculture with key inputs, produces a substantial
part of the country's exports and is a major employer. The sector con-
tributes about 70% of export earnings and employs about five million people,
or 13% of the work force. Large and medium-scale units account for about 70%
of the sector's contribution to GDP, about 50% cf the total manufacturing
value added and employ about 350,000 people. The balance of the industrial
sector's contribution to GDP, to manufacturing value added and to employment
is generated by small-scale and cottage industries.



-9-.
26.     As a result of nationalization of many of the country's industries
following independence and until early 1983, when significant moves toward
denationalization were made, most of the large and medium-scale enterprises
were in the public sector, consisting of about 300 units organized under the
administrative control of 7 public corporations (jute, textile, chemicals,
steel and engineering, food, cement and forestry). These accounted for about
85% of the capital assets of the industrial sector, and about a quarter of
the industrial labor force.
27.     The industrial sector includes the country's largest export-oriented
industry (jute) and import substitution industries (textiles, chemicals, pulp
and paper). The jute manufacturing and cotton textile industries constitute
close to half of the industrial capacity in Bangladesh and have essential
links to the agricultural, rural and cottage industry sectors of the economy.
The jute industry contributes about 30% of the value added in the manufactur-
ing sector and about 50% of total exports, and employs 200,000 workers. The
cotton textile industry is the second largest industry in Bangladesh and
plays an important role in terms of employment and manufacturing value added
and it meets a substantial part of the country's yarn and cloth requirements.
28.     Since FY75 industrial production has improved, although slowly, as a
result of improved availability of raw materials, intermediate goods and,
spare parts, and a higher domestic demand for manufacturing products.
Private sector manufacturing outputs have grown at a rate of about 8% per
annum. However, output of public enterprises have grown at a much slower
rate of 3.5% per annum. Many industrial enterprises suffer from low capacity
utilization due to: (i) irregular and insufficient raw materials supply;
(ii) equipment breakdown and poor maintenance; (iii) shortage of trained
manpower; (iv) frequent power outages; and (v) lack of spare parts becatLse of
foreign exchange shortage.
29.     The profitability of public sector enterprises has been poor, espe-
cially in textile, jute manuEacturing, steel and chemical industries.
Aggregate losses by the public sector manufacturing enterprises in FY82
exceeded Tk 1.5 billion, conatituting a major drain on the Government's
budget. The main causes of poor profitability have been a lack of dynamism
and commercial enterprise, and the pursuit of pricing policies by Goverlnment
aimed at keeping consumer prices at levels thought to be socially desirable,
irrespective of the need to meet operating costs from revenue.
Government's Industrial Strategy
30.     In 1982 the new Government recognized the need for reform in its
industrial sector policy and in particular the urgency of the problem beset-
ting state-owned enterprises: this led to the announcement of the New
Industrial Policy on July 1, 1982. The main objective of this policy is to
give the private sector a greater and increasing role in the country's
industrial development, As a first step, the Government decided to return
state-owned jute and textile mills, owned by private Bangladeshis before the



-10-
1972 nationalization, to the previous owners and to limit the role of the
public sector to basic, heavy and strategic irndustries. At the same time,
the new policy sought to assist in improving the financial viability of
private sector industries by allowing the financial institutions to undertake
rescheduling of debts and more recently by introducing a scheme for absorp-
tion of the burden of foreign exchange fluctuations by the Bangladesh Bank.
In order to expand industrial production, the policy placed particular
emphasis on increasing utilization of existing capacity through implementa-
tion of measures aimed at balancing, modernization and replacement (BMR) of
existing productive assets.
31.     GOB has moved quickly with its program of denationalization.  Over
the period from December 1982 to March 1983, 28 jute mills and 22 textile
mills were returned to their former Bangladeshi owners.
32.     In addition to the denationalization initiative, and the clear inten-
tion of GOB to place greater reliance on private sector efforts, it has taken
first steps toward restructuring of public sector corporations in an attempt
to improve their efficiency. The basic premise of the proposed
restructuring, announced on July 24, 1983, is that the public sector corpora-
tions would perform best if allowed to function as commercial enterprises
with a minimum of civil service interference in the day-to-day management of
these enterprises.  There is therefore a strong awareness within the present
Government that a certain degree of operationaL autonomy is essential in such
functions as procurement, production, staffing, hiring and firing, pricing
policy, marketing and distribution, if efficiency of the remaining public
sector manufacturing enterprises is to be secured.
33.     GOB has also recognized the importance of rationalizing the incentive
structure. The industrial incentive system, including tariff policy, should
be at the center of the process of creating an environment in which greater
private participation in industry and more export production is encouraged.
At the same time, some degree of initial protection, promotion and incentive
for new industry may be needed. GOB, therefore, has begun, with IDA
assistance, an extensive program to review and reform trade and industrial
policy (TIP). The TIP Reform Program has as its objective not only the
rationalization of the incentive structure, but also that of the system of
administrative control and licensing procedures affecting investment and
trade. As a key industrial subsector, the textile industry is receiving
priority attention under the TIP program.



-11-
PART IV - THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY
Background
34.     The textile industry in Bangladesh accounts for about 30% of manufac-
turing value added, employs about one million people and provides about 85%
of the country's total consumption of cloth and finished fabric. The textile
sector is the country's third largest user of foreign exchange importing
almost all its raw materials, equipment and machinery and most of its spare
parts requirements. Prior to independence, the textile industry in
Bangladesh was based on relatively cheap cotton brought from West Pakistan.
In addition, the local industry reLied to a large extent on West Pakistani
entrepreneurship and management. With these important inputs, the indust:ry
experienced steady growth and by 1971 installed spinning capacity had grown
to about 858,000 spindles and yarn production reached about 105 million
pounds.
35.     Following the war of independence in 1971, the growth and perforrnance
of the industry faltered. Raw material procurement now required scarce
foreign exchange. Technical supervision and maintenance became a problem in
part because the departure of the West Pakistanis left a gap in the
experienced techno-managerial manpower and in part for lack of spare parl:s.
Consequently, facilities deteriorated and production declined. Despite
efforts to increase production, yarn output in FY82 stood at 95 million
pounds, which is below pre-independence levels, while population had groiwn by
about 20 million people during the last decade.
Structure of the Textile Industry
36.     The textile industry has been dominated by the large public sector
mills which were nationalized in 1972. These mills accounted for all the
country's spinning capacity, about 10% of the weaving capacity and about 60%
of the finishing capacity. As of FY82 the public sector mills consisted of
60 operating mills, employing 70,000 workers (or 4% of the industrial work
force) and producing about 70% of the country's yarn requirements and about
11% of total cloth requirements. The public sector mills are under the
administrative control of the Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC)
which in turn is responsible to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The
performance of the public sector mills has been poor. As a result of erratic
supply of raw materials, frequent machinery breakdowns, power failures, and
high worker absenteeism, capacity utilization has been low (76% of spinning
capacity and 69% of mill weaving capacity in FY82). Furthermore, through the
public ownership of the mill sector, successive regimes have sought to
provide cloth at low prices. Ex-mill prices of cloth and yarn produced by
the public sector mills have been set by the Government, and did not reflect
rising costs. As a result, the finances of the public sector mills have been
seriously eroded and in FY82 BTMC incurred a loss of Tk 650 million.



-12-
37.     Traditionally, the private sector textile industry has consisted of
the handloom sector, which consists essentially of cottage and small units.
Recent years have seen rapid growth in the powerloom sector, and in garment
manufacturing. Of these subsectoDrs, the handloom sector is the largest. As
of March 1979, there were about 437,000 handlooms, although about 177,000
were idle for lack of working capital, spare parts or yarn. The sector
provides direct employment to about 0.9 million people. The cloth production
of the handloom sector is estimated at 537 million yards, roughly seven times
that of the mill sector. The powerloom sector comprises some 2,800 installed
looms as of FY82 with an estimated output of 42 million yards, producing
fabrics largely for urban consumers out of imported polyester and synthetic
blended yarns.
Supply and Demand for Textiles
38.     Availability of cloth in Bangladesh over the past few years has
averaged about 7 yards per capita. If undeclared (or smuggled) imports are
included, per capita consumption of cloth is about 9 yards per annum. This
is very low considering that 1972 cloth consumption per capita for South Asia
was estimated at 20 yards per annum. The current projection is that per
capita cloth consumption will be about 10.3 yards in 1990. On this basis,
there is a significant domestic supply gap in FY83, which will widen with
growth in population and in income per capita. In FY83, overall demand for
yarn is estimated at 136 million pounds as compared with actual domestic
production of 95 million pounds, implying a supply gap of 41 million pounds
(or 43% of domestic yarn production). The supply gap was met through
declared imports (21 million pounds of yarn and 33 million yards of cloth in
FY83) as well as undeclared imports. In the absence of increase in output,
the domestic supply gap by 1990 would reach 126 million pounds. Balancing,
modernization and replacement (BMR) of existing facilities, part of which
would be supported by the proposed project, would increase domestic yarn
output by about 27 million pounds. In addition there are six mills currently
under construction comprising 87,500 ring spindles, which would provide
approximately 14 million pounds of new capacity. Even with the additional
capacity, supply is expected to fall behind demand for the foreseeable
future. Since future expansion of the industry would aim in part at sub-
stituting imports now targeted at non-traditional urban markets, also at
exploiting potential export markets, it is essential to undertake a detailed
market study which would form the basis for such expansion. Provision has
been made under the proposed Credit for such a study.
Government's Strategy
39.     With its comparative advantage in cotton textiles, its long history
in the industry, and a nucleus of trained staff, GOB's principal objective
for the textile industry is to expand output to keep pace with domestic
demand, and ultimately to win international markets, while making the
efficiency gains that are essential to this endeavor.  GOB's immediate
strategy in pursuing this basic objective is to correct the weaknesses of the



-13-
mill sector, the performance of which faltered noticeably in the post-
independence period, both in terms of output and efficiency, and which slf-
fered losses over the period FY76-FY82. Policy weaknesses have already been
forcefully tackled. Under its New Industrial Policy, 22 mills have been
returned to the private sector, while the BTMC has been granted some
flexibility in setting prices for its mills. This is a significant departure
from previous policy under which yarn prices ex-mill were controlled by the
Government in an effort to provide cheap yarn to the weavers, and cheap cloth
to the consumer, with disastrous consequences for mill profitability, and
dubious benefit to the ultimate consumer. This policy reversal, together
with the removal of a sales tax on imported cotton led to a profitable year
in FY83, and has strengthened the determination of the Government to allow
prices to be set in accordance with free-market principles, and to prevent a
continual drain on the public treasury. During negotiations GOB confirmed
its policy of allowing mills to set prices in accordance with the free market
pricing system and gave an assurance that BTMC would be given a full
authority to set prices for its mills by September 30, 1984 (Section 4.03,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
40.     Although the present Government is committed to exploiting market
forces in its approach to industrial development, it is expected that the
public sector will maintain a presence in the textile sector, particularly in
spinning, where it is felt that the relatively large scale of investment
justifies continued public sector presence to ensure desirable investments
are undertaken. However, during negotiations GOB confirmed that it intended
to maintain and effectively implement its policy of causing public sector
mills to function in all essential respects as commercial enterprises and of
giving no special advantage to such mills, which would impair the ability of
the private sector mills to compete on a fair and equitable basis.
Weaknesses in plant and process management have been addressed by a
UNDP/UNIDO team attached to BTMC which has set up the Savar Training
Institute for in-service training in these areas. Under the proposed credit,
this institute will be strengthened with provision made for the establishment
of training courses in the areas of management accounting and management
practices specific to the textile industry. To address the BTMC's weaknesses
in production planning and financial management, a consultancy package was
adopted under ongoing Credit 1205-BD but has not yet been implemented.
Despite denationalization of 22 of BTMC's mills, BTMC still feels a need for
these services and agreed to appoint consultants as a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed credit (Section 6.01(g), draft Development Credit
Agreement). Deficiencies in plant facilities are being addressed by a
program of balancing, modernization and replacement (BMR) of older plant
facilities.  BMR is regarded by GOB as the means of first resort in securing
extra output and efficiency and quality gains.
41.     Beyond the immediate strategy of correcting the weaknesses of the
existing mill sector, the major directions for longer-term strategy include
the following: (i) expansion of spinning and weaving activity into non-
traditional product lines to exploit emerging opportunities for import-



-14-
substitution in urban markets and potential export markets; (ii) exploitation
of surplus labor advantage, as wiell as centuries-old tradition in handloom
weaving by adopting policies and programs to strengthen the handloom sector
in those product areas where it can enjoy a competitive advantage vis-a-vis
powerloom and mill weaving; (iii) reduction of import dependency in raw
materials; and (iv) strengthening of manpower training facilities to meet the
expansion needs of the industry. To support moves in these strategic
directions, detailed analytic input is required. The proposed Credit would
fund a consumer demand and market study which would form the basis for expan-
sion of the industry into non-traditional product lines. It would also make
provision for a handloom sector study which would have the principal objec-
tive of formulating a support program and insititutional arrangements to
enable this sector to play a maximum role in those product areas where it can
remain competitive.
IDA's Support to the Textile Industry
42.     IDA has assisted the Bangladesh textile industry in a number of ways.
Under the import program credits substantial foreign exchange resources have
been provided to the industry for the procurement of raw cotton and spare
parts. This assistance has enabled the industry to arrest declining produc-
tion through improvements of its capacity utilization and by implementing
needed programs of equipment maintenance and repairs.  Additionally, detailed
action programs have been developed to improve the public sector mills under
the control of BTMC. The private sector has also benefited from IDA financ-
ing through the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) for specialized textile mills,
hosiery units and garment production. In order to tackle the problems of the
public sector textile mills more directly, IDA approved in February 1982 a
US$30 million Credit for a Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project (Credit
1205-BD) which is providing assistance in rehabilitation of 15 public sector
mills under BTMC. An important objective of this project was to support
implementation of sectoral policy adjustments by the Government
(paragraph 39). Also this ongoing project is providing technical assistance
to BTMC to strengthen and upgrade its production planning and financial
management. Bid evaluations and some contract awards have been completed for
the first batch of six mills. Tender documents are being finalized for the
second batch of nine mills. It is too early to assess the impact of this
project. However, the efficacy of BMR in producing the desired results of
output, quality, and efficiency improvements is not in question. The
proposed project would address primarily the urgent BMR requirements of the
recently denationalized private sector mills.



-15-
PART V - THE PROJECT
Background
43.     In 1975 IDA carried out a survey of the Bangladesh textile industry.
The recommendations of this survey formed the basis for action programs
undertaken as part of Imports Program Credits IV-VIII, encompassing inter
alia pricing policy, capital restructuring, and mill rehabilitation. The
review of mill rehabilitation requirements led in 1979 to a project proposal
by GOB and the Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC) for the
rehabilitation of 50 of BTMC's operational mills. IDA agreed to finance this
project, but in a phased manner, given limited implementation capacity. The
first phase, which was intended to cover the rehabilitation requirements of
about 15 selected mills, formed the basis of the Textile Industry
Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 1205-BD). The remaining mills were to be
taken up in subsequent phases.
44.     Shortly after Credit 1205-BD became effective, GOB denationalized 22
of BTMC's mills. Nine of the 15 mills included in Credit No. 1205-BD were
among those transferred to the private sector. Since the new owners needed
time to take effective control of their mills and to address immediate
liquidity problems following the transfer, GOB proposed to drop the nine
transferred mills from Credit 1205--BD, and permitted BTMC to propose sub-
stitute public sector mills in their place. These were accepted for inclu-
sion under the credit on the basis of a mill-by-mill review by IDA. At the
same time, the proposed follow-up project was prepared with the assistance of
a UNDP/UNIDO team principally to support the rehabilitation needs of the
denationalized private sector mills, while providing further support to
address any additional BMR requirements of the BTMC mills that cannot be
accommodated under the ongoing credit. The proposed project was appraised by
an IDA mission that visited Bangladesh in September 1983. A Staff Appraisal
Report (Report No. 4867-BD, dated April 25, 1984) is being distributed
separately. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1984. The
Government of Bangladesh was represented by a delegation led by
Mr. Mahe Alam, Joint Secretary, Industries Division, Ministry of Industry and
Commerce. A timetable of key events relating to the project and special
conditions of the credits are listed in Annex III.
Project Obiectives
45.     The proposed project would further the aims of making the Bangladlesh
textile mill sector more competitive, and ultimately capable of exports in
selected product areas, through improvements in labor and machine
productivity, product quality, manpower skills, management systems, and in
the policy environment. These goals require action at three different levels
addressed in the proposed project. First, the continuation of mill
rehabilitation, manpower training, and management systems upgrading would
secure the immediate objective of correcting the weakness of poor technical
efficiency in the mill sector. Second, the proposed project would attempt to



-16-
further the gains already made in securing policy improvements, aimed at
achieving an incentive structure which rewards efficient performance. Third,
the proposed project would providie the market intelligence and sector
knowledge -- as well as strengthen the related institutional mechanisms --
required for GOB to elaborate its longer-term strategy for the textile sector
(paragraph 41) which would be responsive to changing market conditions and
emerging opportunities in both domestic and foreign markets.
Project Description
46.     The proposed project, which would be implemented over a period of
four years (from FY85 to FY88), would include the following components:
(a) Private Sector Mills - Equipment, machinery, spare parts and
materials would be provided for balancing, modernization and
replacement of existing production facilities of about 15 dena-'
tionalized private sector mills;
(b)  Public Sector Mills - Equipment, machinery, spare parts and
materials would be provided to BTMC for balancing, modernization
and replacement of existing production facilities of about 7
public sector mills; and
(c) Technical Assistance and Studies - A total of about 188 man-
months of technical assistance and consulting services would
be provided to assist in: (i) technical and management training
of local personnel employed by the textile mills both in the
public and private sector; (ii) providing in-plant productivity
and management counseling to the private sector mills;
(iii) undertaking a study on consumer demand and marketing of
textile products, including feasibility of developing export-
oriented textile industries; and (iv) undertaking a handloom
sector study which would suggest an intervention program and
institutional arrangements to strengthen this sector.
Project Cost
47.     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$61.0 million of
which US$6.5 million is in duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$48.2 million equivalent and local currency component at
US$12.8 million equivalent, representing 79% and 21%, respectively, of the
total project cost. The project cost includes about US$8.6 million for
incremental working capital requirements consistent with efficient operation.
A breakdown of project costs by major componenit is shown in the Credit and
Project Summary Sheet at the beginning of this report.
48.     BMR costs for the private sector mills have been estimated based on
mill-by-mill requirements surveys conducted by the UNDP team, their BTMC
counterparts, and mill management.  These estimates are still provisional,



-17-
and are to be vetted by the BSB/BSRS appraisal teams, and reviewed by IIiA in
the course of sub-project appraisal. For the six public sector mills for
which appraisals have been completed, physical contingencies have been
estimated at the rate of 2.5% of the base cost. The base-line estimate is in
FY83 costs. Price contingencies have been computed on the basis of projected
domestic inflation rates of 10% p.a. and international inflation rates cf
9.5%, 9.5% and 8.0% in FY84, FY85 and FY86, respectively.
Financing Plan
49.     The proposed project would be financed by an IDA credit of US$23.0
million equivalent, a Special Fund credit of US$22.0 million equivalent, and
a technical assistance grant of US$1.0 million from UNDP. Total external
funding would thus amount to 84% of project cost net of taxes and duties.
The balance of the project cost amounting to US$15 million would be provided
by the participating mills in the form of equity. In accordance with GOB's
policy, the participating mills would be required to provide from their own
resources at least 30% of mill BMR cost (20% of mill BMR cost for mills
located in non-metropolitan area). Equity contributions by the mills would
be financed to the extent possible out of cash generation of the mills,
otherwise out of equity infusions from the owners.
Financing Mechanisms
50.     The IDA credit would be onlent by GOB to participating private sector
mills and BTMC. In the case of the private sector mills, Bangladesh Sh:ilpa
Bank (BSB) and Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BSRS) would act as agents of
GOB in administering the loans under Administrative Agreements to be entered
into between GOB and BSB/BSRS. In the case of the public sector mills, the
proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent to BTMC under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to be entered into between GOB and BTMC. The BTMC would make
subloans to participating public sector mills. The signing of the
Administrative Agreements and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to
IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section
6.01(c) and (e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.     The onlending terms for the IDA credit would be 14.5% p.a. (13.5%
p.a. for mills located in non-metropolitan area) repayable over up to 15
years inclusive of up to four years' grace. The interest rate would be
subject to adjustment during the period of commitment to remain positive in
real terms. Inflation in Bangladesh is estimated at 12% for FY83, and
projected to remain at about 10% over the next two to three years. The
foreign exchange risk on the IDA credit would be borne by GOB against a fee
of 2.5% which would be charged to the ultimate borrowers in addition to the
interest charge. BSB and BSRS would receive an administration fee of 2.5%
p.a. which would be withheld from interest payments received from the sub-
borrowers before being passed on to GOB.



-18-
52.     The technical assistance aspects of the project financed under the
credit (viz. market and consumer demand study, handloom sector study and
training) would be administered directly by GCB through the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce (MOIC) and the proceeds of the IDA credit pertaining to
these components (US$1.3 million) would be retained by GOB.
Proiect Implementation
53.     Private Sector Component.  The prime responsibility for the implemen-
tation of BMR in the private sector mills would fall on mill management.
With technical assistance from a UNDP/UNIDO Productivity Team which has been
providing assistance to the Bangladesh textile industry, BMR plans for 21
individual private mills have already been prepared, out of which 15 mills
would be selected for financing under the proposed project.  The Bangladesh
Shilpa Bank (BSB) and the Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BSRS) will appraise
the financial and economic viability of the BMR plans; IDA, in turn, will
review the technical, financial, and economic analysis in each BSB/BSRS
appraisal report, prior to final approval (Section 3.03, draft Development
Credit Agreement). It is anticipated that a number of mills will utilize
consultants, which would be financed from the subloans, to assist in finaliz-
ing equipment requirements, identifying potential suppliers, securing and
evaluating bids received, and assisting in the erection of BMR equipment.
BSB/BSRS will monitor the procurement process (paragraphs 59-6,1) according to
agreed procedures.
54.     BSB and BSRS are the two main development finance institutions in
Bangladesh. These institutions presently suffer from major difficulties in
managing their ongoing portfolio and substantial improvements would be needed
before they can act as direct lending intermediaries. The present difficul-
ties of BSB and BSRS arose partly from a very difficult macro-economic
environment over the last few years which had a severe impact on many bor-
rowers of BSB/BSRS, particularly ithose affected by the devaluation of Taka;
however, the problem also stemmed from the managerial weaknesses and staffing
constraints of these banks which resulted in poor project appraisal and
collection performance. Institutional and portfolio reviews of BSB and BSRS
are currently underway at the initiative of IDA, ADB and KfW, which are
expected to lead to specific remedial measures to improve the institutional
capability of these banks with particular emphiasis on their project
appraisal, portfolio management and collection performance. However, despite
the present shortcomings, BSB and BSRS are the only financial institutions in
Bangladesh which have substantial experience in project lending and in this
respect they are better equipped than other financial institutions. To
offset the weakness in the project preparation and appraisal capacity of BSB
and BSRS, most of the BMR plans of the private sector mills to be included in
the project have already been prepared with substantial technical assistance
from the UNDP/UNIDO team. In addition, in the course of carrying out
detailed subproject appraisals of the public sector mills, IDA has developed
detailed procedures and methodological guidelines which have been passed on
to the BSB and BSRS appraisal teams. Further, all subproject proposals



-19-
appraised by BSB/BSRS would be reviewed by IDA prior to final approval. Only
those mills which meet agreed criteria (paragraph 65) would be accepted f.or
financing. Moreover, mill owners would be required to demonstrate their
long-term commitment to the project by meeting a significant proportion of
project costs from their own resources (paragraph 49).
55.     Public Sector Mills.  For the public sector mills, BTMC would enl:er
into a subloan agreement with participating public sector mills. Before such
subloan agreements are executed, IDA would review and approve subprojects
(Section 3.03, draft Development Credit Agreement). BTMC under the ongoing
Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1205-BD) created a Project
Implementation Cell (PIC) staffed by a project manager, civil engineer,
mechanical engineer, electrical engineer, procurement coordinator,
accountant, and textile technologists in spinning, weaving, and finishing.
Thus far, the PIC has functioned satisfactorily, although tbere is some need
for improvement in the handling of procurement. The PIC is supervised by a
Coordinating Committee consisting of the Directors of Planning and
Development, Production, Finance and Purchasing. The PIC coordinates the
project teams which have been formed in each mill. These project teams
consist of the Chief Executive of the mill, the Technical Manager, and the
Chiefs of Accounting, Procurement, Stores, Production, and Maintenance.
Installation and erection of machinery and equipment will be carried out by
the mills' own fitters, augmented as necessary by teams of specialized fit-
ters drawn from other public mills. Fitters will be supervised by technical
personnel sent by the equipment suppliers, monitored by the mills' projeect
teams.
56.     Technical Assistance and Study.  The proposed project would provide
48 man-months of technical assistance (two advisors for a period of two
years) to strengthen training of personnel in the areas of management
accounting and production management applications specific to the texti:Le
industry. The Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MOIC) would be responsible
for implementing this component of the technical assistance through the Savar
Training Institute. The MOIC would also have the responsibility for maniaging
the textile market and consumer demand study in collaboration with other
public sector agencies including the Planning Commission which is involved in
the formulation of industrial sector strategy and policy, the BTMC and the
Bangladesh Handloom Board (BHB). The study requiring 24 man-months of tech-
nical assistance would be executed over a period of about 12 months beginning
July 1984.  The handloom sector study which will help formulate a program for
revitalizing the handloom industry would be managed by BHB with about 20
man-months of consultancy services provided under the project. The consult-
ants to carry out the market and demand study and the handloom sector study
as well as experts to assist. in training would be appointed by December 31,
1984 (Section 3.10, draft Development Credit Agreement). These studies are
expected to provide detailed analytic inputs to GOB's longer-term development
strategy for the textile sector (paragraph 41). In view of the importance of
elaborating a long-term strategy for the development of the textile industry,
it was agreed with GOB at negotiations that they would prepare a long-term



-20-
textile industry strategy paper, taking into account the recommendations of
the textile market and consumer demand study and the handloom study, for
review with IDA by December 31, 1985 (Section 4.05, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
57.     In order to facilitate the implementation of the private sector
component of the proposed project and to improve production management sys-
tems of the private sector mills, in-plant productivity assistance would be
needed. The Government is currently seeking technical assistance of about 96
man-months from UNDP/UNIDO to provide this assistance. In view of its impor-
tance in correcting the managerial weaknesses of the private mill sector,
the conclusion of an appropriate arrangement with UNDP or other sources for
the provision of adequate funds for this assistance would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Sections 3.09 and 6.01, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
58.     To strengthen policy and strategy formulation in the textile sector,
it was agreed under Credit 1205-BD that a Planning Cell would be created in
the then Ministry of Textiles to advise GOB on textile sector strategy and
policy. Although the Ministry of Tesxtiles has since been merged with the
MOIC, which has a Planning Cell, there is a continuing need to give special
attention to the issues of the textile sector. The GOB has agreed to hire an
Industrial Economist, under terms of reference which have been agreed, to
strengthen the analysis of textile sector issues. Action on this matter has
been delayed following procedural delays associated with the absorption of
the Ministry of Textiles into MOIC, but will be taken prior to effectiveness
of the proposed credit (Section 6.01(f), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
59.     Private Sector Component.  Contracts for goods costing less than
US$500,000 would be procured in accordance with BISB's and BSRS's standard
procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. For contracts costing US$500,000
or more, BSB/BSRS would invite on the sponsor's behalf international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Civil works contracts
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to IDA.
60.     Public Sector Component.  For the public sector mills, most
equipment, machinery and spares would be procured through ICB following IDA
guidelines.  Exceptions to ICB would be allowed in case of awards under
US$100,000, and for proprietary items.  In the former case, procurement would
be on the basis of limited international tendering (LIT) procedures.
Proprietary items would be procured through negotiated contracts or limited
international tendering (LIT). Awards of less than US$50,000 may be procured
through local shopping on the basis of at least three price quotations, and
subject to an aggregate limit of US$500,000. BTMC would be allowed to
procure certain spare parts from its own workshops, subject to an aggregate
limit of US$250,000, and subject to procedures designed to ensure that this



-21-
would be cost effective. Civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to IDA. Individual contract awards of US$500,000 or more would be subject to
pre-award review by IDA. A total of about 30% of the public sector component
would be subject to post-award review.
61.     Special Fund.  The use of the Special Fund credit to finance B1MR
plans under the proposed project would be determined by BSB/BSRS and BTMC
on a case-by-case basis depending on the nature of goods required and the
possible sources of supply.  Goods to be financed from the proceeds of thle
Special Fund credit would be procured in accordance with the procedures set
out in paragraphs 59 and 60 above except that such procurement would be
limited ex ante to those countries which are eligible in accordance with the
Resolution of the Executive Directors of IDA establishing the Special Fund
(Resolution No. IDA 82-6 of October 26, 1982).
Procurement Procedures (US$ million)
Procurement Method
Proiect Element                  ICB     LIT      LCB     Other        Total Cost
Equipment, Machinery            23.69   11.37               5.30          40.36
and Spares                  (19.13)  (9.11)              (4.24)        (32.48)
Civil Works                                       3.15                     3.15
(2.52)                   (2.52)
Raw Material                             8.57                              8.57
(8.57)                            (8.57)
Consultancy, Studies and                                    2.43           2.43
Technical Assistance                                     (1.43)         (1.43)
TOTAL                  23.69   19.94    3.15        7.73          54.51
(19.13) (17.68)  (2.52)    (5.67)         (45.00)
Note; Figures are net of duties and taxes. Figures in parentheses are the
amounts to be financed by IDA.
Disbursement
62.     The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:  (i) for
equipment, machinery and spares, 100% of foreign expenditures for direct
imports, 100% of ex-factory cost and 70% of local expenditures for items
procured locally; (ii) for civil works, 90% of cost; and (iii) for



-22-
consultants, 100% of cost. The proposed Special Fund credit would be dis-
bursed as follows: (i) for equipment, machinery and spares, 100% of foreign
expenditures for direct imports, 100% of ex-factory cost and 70% of local
expenditures for items procured locally; and (ii) for raw materials, 100% of
foreign expenditures.
Financial Condition of Mills
63.     Prior to the transfer of the mills to the private sector, 18 of the
22 mills subsequently transferred to the private sector had aggregate accumu-
lated losses of Tk 599.0 million, which substantially exceeded the original
equity contributions of Tk 77.0 million. Operating deficits of these mills
were financed by government equity infusions and by BTMC borrowing from
commercial banks. This gave rise to a problem of inadequate debt-equity
structure on book value basis, and an excess of current liabilities in rela-
tion to current assets. It nevertheless appeared to be in the interest of
the new owners to resume ownership and control of these mills, as in most
cases the market value of fixed assets exceeded *by far the book value, to the
extent that only one of the 22 transferred mills continued to show a negative
equity position after the asset revaluation exercise commissioned by GOB
prior to the transfer. IDA has carried out its own asset revaluation exer-
cise which in most cases is in agreement with the GOB exercise.
64.     Further improvement to the financial concLition of the transferred
mills has been secured by the agreement in principle of the commercial banks
to reschedule current liabilities owed to them by the mills to the extent
required to enable the mills to service current debt out of current earnings.
These reschedulings would be effected prior to suibloan approvals by BSB/BSRS
and IDA in individual cases. Finally, with respect to Government equity
contributions to the mills during BTMC tenure, against which shares were not
issued, the mill owners would take necessary steps to float share subscrip-
tion in the capital market for the purpose of raising money to redeem out-
standing Government contribution. In the event that encouraging response is
not found from the entrepreneurs, Government has agreed to reschedule these
contributions and to subordinate these claims to claims held by other
creditors and hold no collateral security in respect of these outstanding
claims. Under the new ownership, therefore, Government contributions may be
treated as quasi-equity for the purpose of assessing the strength of the
balance sheet. On this basis, 19 of 22 mills show a debt-equity ratio better
than 70:30 (sixteen without treatment of Government contributions as quasi-
equity). With the financial restructuring that has been indicated, it is
expected that most of the mills will meet the financial conditions precedent
to subloan approval.



-23-
Acceptance Criteria
65.     Acceptance criteria for BMR plans of the participating mills will be
as follows: (i) incremental financial rate of return will need to exceed
15%; (ii) incremental economic rate of return should exceed 15%;
(iii) debt-service coverage will need to be greater than 1.2; (iv) current
ratio should be at least 1.5:1; and (v) debt-equity ratios would not exceed
70:30 (80:20 for mills located in non-metropolitan area) after the BMR
investment. To ensure adequate stake and commitment on the part of the
owners, a minimum of 30% (20% for mills located in non-metropolitan area) of
subproject costs would be financed by the mills from their own resources
(Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
66.     IDA involvement in the financing of textile sector rehabilitatiorL
under the proposed project would continue previous efforts aimed at improve-
ment in operational efficiency of the existing textile mills which were
initiated under Imports Program Credits and the first Textile Rehabilitation
Project. Continuing IDA support for institutional and managerial improve-
ments in both the public and the private sector is essential to the
strengthening of one of the most important industrial subsectors of the
Bangladesh economy. This subsector has serious weaknesses in operationa:L
performance and has in the past contributed to a drain on Government resour-
ces and a deterioration of the portfolio of financial institutions. Beyond
the immediate objective of correcting the deficiencies of this sector, this
project would afford the Bank an opportunity to assist the Government in
elaborating the details of a longer-term strategy which GOB would like to
adopt for this sector, which holds the promise of enhancing the long-term
viability and efficiency of the industry and gaining access to export
markets.
67.     The direct benefits of the mill rehabilitation component of the
proposed project would include increased yarn output of about 15 million
pounds representing 18% of current production. In addition, cloth production
would be increased by about 9 million yards.
68.     In analyzing investment proposals, four principal indicators are
used: internal financial rate of return; economic rate of return; profit
before tax and interest as a percentage of total assets employed, in the
first year in which the full impact of BMR is to be felt; and debt-service
coverage ratio in the year in which the repayment burden is highest. For the
six BTMC mills for which detailed BMR plans have been prepared and appraised,
the aggregate internal financial rate of return is 29%. The economic rate of
return averaged 24%, with returns from individual BMR investments rangin.g
from 11% to 51%. It is expected that BMR investments in the private sector
mills, when appraised, will yield comparable rates of return. The results
indicate that BMR is an attractive option in increasing productivity and
output, since incremental inrestment results in more than proportional expan-



-24-
sion of output, utilizing existing capacity which was relatively idle due to
imbalances in equipment. There are individual cases of old mills, poorly
located facilities, or operations with poor capital structures, for which BMR
is not a viable proposition. Mills which are not expected to meet the mini-
mum rate of return requirements (paragraph 65) will not be inc'Luded for
financing under the proposed project.
Project Risks
69.     Technical risks are considered manageable.  In the case of the
private sector mills, plan preparation and procurement would be reinforced by
the use of outside experts. Difficulties could arise in the erection and
installation of equipment, due to the potential need to use outside fitters
and mechanics. However, this risk will be minimized since the equipment
suppliers would send technicians to direct local fitters and mechanics.
Provision also has been made for consultants to advise the mill owners at the
trial run stage, before equipment is accepted as meeting agreed performance
criteria. For the public sector mills, the Project Implementation Cell would
continue to oversee technical implementation.
70.     To compensate for managerial weaknesses, and related performance
risks, in-plant productivity counseling would be provided to individual
private mills through UNDP/UNIDO. The lack of adequately trained techno-
managerial manpower, in the numbers required, is perhaps the greatest single
weakness of the Bangladesh textile industry. Therefore, efforts underway to
upgrade skills will be maintained and accelerated through the proposed train-
ing component of the project. Also, the project design takes into account
the presently limited appraisal and implementation capacity of BSB and BSRS
and measures will be introduced to strengthen these institutions as discussed
in paragraph 54 above.
71.     The success of the project will to some degree depend upon a consis-
tently applied policy by the Government to improve public enterprise
efficiency and introduce free market pricing. Actions taken to date --
denationalizing 22 public sector mills, introducing commercial profitability
and efficiency criteria in the remaining public mills, and adopting a policy
of free market pricing -- would indicate that GOB recognizes that the best
way to ensure good quality cloth at reasonable prices is to take actions to
improve efficiency and increase reliance on marlket forces.



-25-
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement
between the People's Republic of Bangladesh and the Association acting as the
Administrator of the Special Fund, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the BTMC and the Recommendation of the Committee provided, for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
73.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credits
include: (i) appointment of management and financial consultants by BTMC
(paragraph 40); (ii' the execution of Administrative Agreements satisfacl:ory
to IDA between the borrower and BSB/BSRS (paragraph 50); (iii) the execution
of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA between the borrower and
BTMC (paragraph 50); (iv) conclusion of funding arrangements for technical
assistance personnel to provide in-plant productivity and managerial counsel-
ing for the private sector mills (paragraph 57); (v) appointment of an
Industrial Economist for the Planning Cell of the Ministry of Industry anld
Commerce (paragraph 58); and (vi) approval of Project Proforma 1/ by the
Borrower.
74.     I am satisfied that the proposed credits would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted
on October 26, 1982, of the Executive Directors of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
75.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credits.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
May 1, 1984
Washington, DC
1/ An internal GOB document, the approval of which is a prerequisite for
the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-26-                                                      ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E 3A
BANGLADESH                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT               LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960/-b-     1970/   ESTIMATE-b          ASIA 5 PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Rll)
TOTAL                                  144.0        144.0        144.0
AGRICULTURAL                            95.2         97.0         97.5
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       40.0         60.0         140.0               276.7                       1028.6
ENIERY CONSUHPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)            ..         28.0         49.0                398.4                       792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YgAR (THOUSANDS)   53491.0         68117.0      90660.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)            5.1          7.6         11.6                 21.5                         32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 156.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   430.2
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K11.                         371.5        473.0        614.7                161.7                       260.7
PER SQ. KM2. AGRI. LANG              561.9        702.5        908.3                363.1                      1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YES                             44.3         46.3         42.E                 36.6                        39.4
15-64 YES                             52.5         51.1         54.6                 59.2                        57.2
65 AND ABOVE                           3.2          2.7          2.6                  4.2                         3.3
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                  1.9          2.4          2.6                  1.9                         2.3
URBAN                                  3.6          6.3          6.5                  4.0                         3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            53.5         49.2         47.0                 29.3                         31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            28.1         22.7         17.5                 10.9                          9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.6          3.4          3.1                  2.0                          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)               ..        373.0       1607.0
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..           ..         12.0                 48.1                        46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          106.0        101.0         93.0                111.4                       125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          87.0         85.0         84.0                 98.1                       114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              44.0         43.0         42.0                 56.7                        57.9
OF WHICC  ANIMAL AND PULSE            9.0          9.0          7.0/c               13.9                        14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             24.9         23.0         19.7                 12.2                          7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)           37.3         41.6         47.8                 59.6                         60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          159.0        150.3        134.7                 96.6                        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (XPOP)
TOTAL                                   *-         45.0         53.0/d               32.9                        37.1
DRRBAN                                  *          13.0         15.07W               70.8                        54.8
RURAL                                   ..         47.0         55.07W               22.2                        26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..          6.0          5.0/e               18.1                        41.4
URBAN                                   ..           ..         4o.0/e               72.7                        47.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                  4.7                        33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..        8430.0    10940.0                3506.0                      7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                   ..       76810.0    24450.0                4797.9                      2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                   *-        7020.0/f   4500.0/c              1100.6                      1047.2
URBAN                                   ..         820.07?    630.07W               298.4                       651.1
RURAL                                   ..            ..    23360.07o              5941.6                      2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..            ..          ..                   ..                         27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..           5.9/g         5.8
URBAN                                   **           6.17j        6.1
RURAL                                                5.9/_S        5.8
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..            .
RURAL                                   ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..          3.5
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_   _     _ _ _   _  _   _ _   _     _      _   _ _   _ . _-   _     _   _ _-_- - _- - _- _ _- _ _-_- - _- - _- _ _- _ _- _- - _- - _- _ _- _ _- _ - -_ - -_ -_ - _ -



-27-                                               ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A B L E 3A
BANGLADESH               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
MOST                       (MOST RE':ENT ESTIMATE) /b
196           lb  RECENT/b             LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOMPE
16          1 9 71970   ESTIMATE.-      ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     47.0         52.0         62.0                96.1                       101.2
MALE                     66.0         68.0         76.0               107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                   26.0         34.0         47.0                82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      8.0         19.0         15.0                30.2                        44.9
MALE                     14.0         29.0         24.0                37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                    1.0          8.0          6.0                22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)             1.0          0.8         14.3                 2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 ..        45.0         44.0                34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                              ..         26.0         21.0                18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                21.6         23.0/h       26.0/c              53.5                        72.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               ..         0.4          0.4                 1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/TilOUSAND POP             ..         6.0          8.0                96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..          ..          0.9                 9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER (' DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 ..           ..           4.7                16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..          ..            ..                 3.6                         3.4
LABOR FDOCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           19252,0      23611.0      32341.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     15.2         16.6         17.7                33.3                        33.t
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                870U         86.0         74.0                69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    3.0          3.0         11.0                15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0         34.7         35.7                42.5                        3S.6
MALE                                 58.7         55.9         57.0                54.4                        50.7
FEMALE                               11.4         11.9         13.0                29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3          1.4          1.3                 1.0                         1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             18.3/h         ..         14.6/i              16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            44.57W       44.11i       42.27J              43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.97W        8.77T        6.97'               6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             17.97W       19.67T       18.27@              17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET GILOUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        139.0/c             133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..        11.07W             111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
-j- ,..,.      Y;  CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                  ..                       178.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                  ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         86.0/c              43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                   .           ..         86 .0                           _ 51.7          41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noced. 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1972; /g 1973; /h 1963; /i 1967; /i 1974.
May 1983



-28-
ANNE I
Page 3 of5
roop-blh   henaus  of It   to    f *oooded.dfhttoo   and  nncyt  oath by d1if tinronorn    intrllon                                    Tn c.    he, data ay,  _oerto-s,  c.fnl t
dyrott` orders of  artdo ldtic,-  t-e.ia  And ahre                      c o-tab  cojot dilhooosbe-            e   cofr_o
..o...r.o  rop,oe  I tOo oh,'  -          an-ff groa  of the cohje-t co,R,r' Aod 111 a   -tooty &-os  coS   -nchtt hitgh., ao-tag    ra-   then. ohP o-t-y  roP at th
salient ooaoer r  m t_rlo  "ifig  ir-ce1 Ott O      oert  rop    .eertdeitn    ot    fit   n   tdi    at   sooe    ....os  oItroe                                   rnolae
oroop taodnca foe  hat lolnuo     titIt              I -oraeofcntr..  -nog the godi-ator   opmc0  the ...ottrofdm cdi  ntaias  tsittc   be
ORfO Itrontardnq,torit                                               ~ -oylattotditided by  -oshe  of prcoLiaio
TIa   -Trt   ofeearatoptio   an    rc   rd  tecdano.  11,                       b;Fta   oatfe   te     *dta   tbn   t  eecstybd
19th AoM  1962 dat.-fyito                                                                                           e   ocn   ecn-ihriatodeddh.nce   oyc en
ngpottoa  -fotnao   l  getttaai  reucd   nnnrohi  a  yranocty    cinan   fnae   eada e   ufnr  anaean   tme..  tanfra   rse..aa
for arapo,   b -atea - oktnd   ttt  grenorc   i  fiok                       16,nosn    nttiis
19th, tOll, sri 1001 dais                                                                                  bya   l        r   pholos-   r.rsb fabseot riPoosdttg  yeto yclortda
tNFtRtti  ClrhOtPl(.lt Pot CAPITA -.oatpaoioooyio   foc he                                                    oic t.n..atotyet- -rlf c-ffed  by n yhysitf:o  16.0 hyoedtrat
yyinrrenrgyloo', nd ltott  ,  ntr...o . coa    t  cod.b.dro-,_  tola                             titr    oc           inf,Ot)ntt    fe   o otrtnodfinAMi
I9ghI,9 tht, ord i9lh dntn.                                                                                olrboi  i   old    hcoioploor                            aitl.  -ed caL
Totlf,o,,      in   idNn    thotooal      dof Jolt i1  19th, 1970, ard 1901                              Adnisci... orhospital tel - Tota  racIe  of adicott  o   it.n
loon,                                                                     frog hottital c ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~dIn thr  by teonenf hn,dr
leau    opltonbercn   Otoa h                h-fto-ot urht  fn toa   pptsi
ailferot dohoitton  nt otar noat sa  ctfet toriarchiity  nIdataSINtGo
p-ytlainopoetosIIOoerl   oost    tagnptfhdlurarcr elate0  It~tig qas-tct
trrltol   ry2111 - atotpo0,,is.-n.  -rjeto  nchsdonma                                         n   ttr ott t- ntiIory   0  ogrcyo   d  tth   tiddi
asosogdeiio  o  oritlranor gg  o  oonete-6an  tnno  Otrioy -trtgcf  -                                     ltyrtt -b.    tetrot - 01 tolilgllno -t - ttl, y     t,an.ua
oo h.rci-n  o  tooito   er-d  itlti, d-ro -t far 1yoo"Io  pareoc                                   ofTIoft,aN     o    n   oa    ai  oarttlt
ttho-tt    ,,stt   -oolrt-ltco   on      ppitioter   nn   rct
inotehrInrft  neatt   toddt   to   o    iotr   g                                         tCh
trrortatttonalos.oonnttoh,~~`7Z'_ thnI   oiol01      tyftf ipetoMaftIoolytOra
leon utttnaypotooio   t   o9lo      It   a  oter otat  oat0                                              el..  toot i,-L-oaatie  tnoutI    iiil  r iae
toalsra   1bhP, 19 d1 nr)a  h.- daa                                                                 ototallIr, nI   ttr   tao    orgtneto,ee    t
nntlhnl111,9t, nod0 l-f Itt.                                                                pot-t_lyr-i  -  rtsr.ndNetoan-otm   caTtotriodi
f-tit ont .o.i. lt1t-n,1t-.nrto-l                                                                      ronyanaloI ito..    s
rorolarir Ornut  Octo Iootnert-no--h-o-nig gtot,  ostto  -rtnMotitotoraoly7ert                                                                      Alort    dLt  boet   odno   otln
i9gatrott  91Al   dllI,ad   OI i                                                                            serfg   of        1. trc    ditr"b nttraol1    at  o    oe
aroor trtI hor tror  nto.nndt - dotal lit hlttl   yer ttoonoot  -t ri
y.r...i       . oo   ll .  .0 t ., cn ....aa                                              CthfOIt
Cod   ett ot(o  tonol-  noldntr   t   tono    ra nta                                          anyro   ealotaotMdoylrot-atoo
torilt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -p -t.rae;nodi  tn-po   neoobodogt,,t,lll   0                             ttt            96c0nnfrc   po`   otrthoodo                     ...itir   ...ioe...
101,......ceeta   ttanattRodt  tarFtttrlcfttr-drai
,Ytmltao         tetr  trsltmoodloroiaocaanpttotcotyltthofrottyacoyn                                                                                              eorrtotnng
ol ttth-torrotdooton- anrit  nt tteri  t ontotalroniin tinoir          tooertynbst idtedI toetiof
troleit.                                                                                        to re1eoeta65rer9tltooAony  anio   -Ot-orobrloaofr
rantntrinnio-tnonitoraoooinatittonoi-  Prntraoetoot<d                        aeorniottlo  t.otnonrdopnittonyritonnot  retal ritootr
ofrhlOf.nt,,     ot  llt   rart-t,  otttrtnnntr-                   ttot.ir narrettf,ntn,attirtttoto   o        ntotst
I onorlrn  a~~~~~~ Ott to anon  00 dr-tat.                                trOsttstot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~trttttttnU,LffillTltnodtit.Wto.t11tyI.,  ; I
r;nt  tt   Tiit-Ittettotiordoo-nrnI  Io,oet  t yn2rrldt-r
loott   o   r.      d-lt o.        oto  tOo-l-ot-t.t ".tI- t.t...tt.   iO- ..n-t  t I.trio   ntn-ito
-nnt,tdn,tottttCthtoo                               rotta   tidotOrttr                                            at    rt9tr              tttfnt
not  o      tn Iaroo   roa  Inoo  ot  toona    ror    id   on                             tOOuotfhtoot   r    oloy,nttttottnne
onrtotontotarono.a..ln.    tor      -actaihto             tthaa3o.                                 tot.l
do:.                                                                                                lodot5 r97r-gctl
ttrapltttotofblolnlttntu  o  ,ooionotmlaootd  rntTnl~Wrfantthaordo)lroootoltifia   ponon -tnrotgnon
yttlyootOto   o   odonotonatt 0Innontt   ot   e                                                          ato  ttooroylltenat0trtyto,tntno,totr
dot.   otniis<n toyplot nanyotto inootot    trOOntiOt   is -Ot   totPrpla.h.tal.oo                                              fotio 
-Totoo   to   h0Ko rho. Ot  tyttatla   nolfod   od,TonOTato   i91  t  ran   91   s
tootintnI   odptomn,ahioo   ndtotto.rtlt(mroy Iearbtnhtunteett   nttllbrttr
tonbtrtnt  ato   rancooltp  Allaod  h  tytntglalrodo  onanria     nycoltif  lortott     tharroneIn  artn,  freot,-totngan
anlly  n   000   otIoll      btosot    tcooon,hlyaI                  Oi,totn   opnaooo   trca-lttonl190-rn  t   bd   aa
ate  od  ot   lot itt Io  a  tatlotOt   co  OlOctd  ltyanal   toeosr  looote ItornttI -tatr trteonootr    ono bnt  n,- on- tn- rio
or lootatod  lentIl   Ot-Il,   900  nt  OhIo Ino,                  and otytrinint.   sttt and fa oc ye rnttn0c  or bot  tehar froo1  lOot
Pottatt  oattt  t Eoototatoopa  lot     tnteonooooopototrntot  ot  bt  dta
oroyiro   oitrhyI        ttntira   ot.t   oioda   boo                                         stP   trinOt  Irrot-    oo ,01,an    ont-Itfrotoo
ttarootaltoI   otntno  ntInr n0napool   ont  tn                                                       tiiy   sh t-noooda   os ,ot,  n   es clht  ana
altooenloonrthrot.otrIra   ttti....tt.lnaooatoth -nnrttnotlroloooaonaoirnaigaep                                                                                                 ier
ynlaprooin of  yin  IIirao  tnal  honirt potoo.    het            lah.  ntl  ao  .91  Ita.TOre at Iotoor -                 t'tyao- ntyetonnto
cta.ttdonlnttra   Oocof  toaoolntl  nocintdodao                    lttntn~go-tcortnntat-ttn.olttt- rdIno-icorod
or otlool pontolo so no atorn0r tnt otto coo 10, 1tntaoad  1P roy to tho  ton ettiottos  tro  tron  onttrrot tnaroot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-29-                                                 ANNEX I
Pagie 4of 5
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  91.55 million (January 1982,
GNP Per Capita: USS140 (1982)
Amount
(million US$             Average Annual Increase (%)                Share of GDP at Market Prices Cl)
in current prices)             (in constant prices)                           (in current oric!s)
Indicator                      FY82            FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80   FY8O-82          FY60    FY70    FY75    IY80    FY82
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a           10,947               4.0      -0.6        5.5       3.5         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture la                     5,107               3.1      -1.3        3.3       2.4          59.9    56.9    62.5    53.4    46.7
Industry /a                        1,506              7.9       -3.2        6.4       3.8           7.7     9.6    11.3    L2.7    13.8
Services /a                        4,334              4.9        3.3        8.1       4.9          30.1    30.0    26.2    34.0    39.6
Consumption                         11,373               4.4      -0.7        6.0       3.5          92.4    92.8    99.2    98.0   103.9
Gross domestic investment            1,506              10.9     -10.9        2.0      -6.5           6.9    11.3      8.1    16.7    13.8
Exports of goods & nfs                 841               0.8     -11.7        3.4       9.3          10.0     8.3      3.0      7.8     7.7
Imports of goods & nfs               2,774               8.8     -12.0        6.1       1.4           9.3    12.5    10.3    Z2.5    25.3
Gross national savings                -11;              26.5     -17.7       22.1    -38.8            0.9     6.1      1.0     4.0    -1.0
Amount
(million US$                     Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)
in current prices)                           (in current Prices)
FY82                         FY73       FY75        YY80      FY82
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                    627.0                         100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0
Primary /b                           193.9                         40.4        31.5        29.6       30.9
Manufactures                         433.1                          59.6       68.5        70.4       69.1
Merchandise imports                  2,587.0                         100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0
Food                                 360.8                         44.1        42.2        30.2       13.9
Petroleum                            560.6                          3.2        11.1        16.2       21.7
Machinery & equipment                676.1                          13.8       11.5        23.0       26.1
Other                                989.5                         38.9        35.2        32.0       38.2
FY7A    FY75       FY76      FY77     FY78      FY79      FY80     FY81      FY82
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73-100)
GDP Deflator                                        140.6    240.7    183.1    177.2    203.6    216.8    252.7          267.3    295.9
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                7q9661   8.8759  14.8521  15.4667  15.1215  15.2228  15.4777   16.3447  20.0400
Export price index                                  104,,5    119.0    103.4    108.9    126.5    160.9    198.9         175.7    147.7
Import price index                                  144,,9    187.8    180.2    178.2    168.7    208.9    234.9         263.9    261.5
Terms of trade index                                 72,,1     63.4      57.4      61.1     75.0      77.0      84.7      66.6      56.5
As X of GDP
(at current prices)
FY75     FY77      FY80        FY82
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                              5.4       9.5       10.5       11.6
Current expenditure                                          4.5       7.8        7.7        8.4
Current surplus (+) or deficit C-)                          +0.9      +1.7     + 2.8       + 3.2
Capital expenditure                                          3.1       9.5      13.3        12.4
Foreign financing                                            2.4       6.0        8.2        8.0
FY60-70      FY70-75        FY75-80     FY80-82
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (4,2                                                       -0.6            6.5         3.3
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                                1.5          -3.0            4.0         0.9
n -ot available
n not appliqatble
/a At market prices.
/b Raw jute and tea.
ASADD
Augist 31, 1983



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                   Estim. Projected
FY75    FY76    FY77    FY70        FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83           FY84
Net exports of goods                                    -1,059     -903     -470    -859    -946  -1,650  -1,822  -1,960  -1,685    -1,790
Exports of goods                                         344      372      405      49C       610      722      711      627      655        750
Imports of goods                                     -1,403  -1,275    -875  -1,349  -11,556  -2,372  -2,533  -2,587  -2,340   -2,540
Net exports of services                                     21      - 7       -29      -32      -28         4       15      -70      -90      -102
Workers' remittances                                         35       29       60      112      143      210       379      412      600       650
Current account balance                                 -1.003     -882    -439    -778E   -831  -1.436  -1,428  -1,618  -1.175   -1,242
Direct private investment                                             ..       ..       ..       ..        ..       ..       ..        ..
MLT loans (net)                                            498       498      238      398      420      581       513      498      540       607
Grants & grant-like flows                                  382      245       265      392      553      592      584      697       720       735
Other capital flows (net)                                  274        87       17      -39      -16      145      307       295      -57      -100
Change in reserves (- = increase)                         -151       53      -81        25    -124       119       24       128      -28         -
International reserves (end of period)                     266      213       294      269      393      274      250       122      150       150
Reserves as months of imports of next year                2.4      2.6      2.4       1.9      1.8      1.2      1.1      0.5      0.7        0.6
Actual
FY75    FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                        382      245      265      393      553       592      584      697
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                       519      564      268      4351     477       631      562      539
Concessional                                        458      533       244      401      456      600      541       467
Bilateral                                         343      390      144      262       213      273      255
IDA                                               113      128       86        88E     153      152      170      158
Other multilateral                                  3       15       14        51       91      177       83
Non-concessional                                     60        31       24       35       20       30        21       72
Official export credits                            19             -        -             -        -        -         4
IBRD
Other multilateral                                 27       18         6        2        3       17        3        26
Private                                            15       13        18       32       17       13       19        42
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding & disbursed (end of period)  1,355   1,797   2,053   2,571   2,951   3,216   3,615   3,979
Official                                          1,233   1,689   1,940   2,436    2,808   3,067   3,491   3,835
IBRD                                               55       55       55        55       55       55       55        55
IDA                                               255      380      466       554      707      859   1,027   1,181
Other                                             923   1,254   1,419   1,822    2,047   2,154   2,379   2,599
Private                                             122       108      113      135i     142      149       124      144
Undisbursed Debt                                    1,019       948   1,016   1,335   1,659   1,718   2,103   2,666
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                             31       88       59       69        95       94       92       87
Interest                                             10        22       28       32       38       43       42        47
Payments as Z of export earnings                         7.3    20.3      12.7    12.1    13.1    10.6    10.0    10.3
Payments as Z of GNP                                     0.2      1.2      0.9      0.8       1.0      0.8      0.7      0.8
Average interest rate on new loans (2)
Official                                               2.0      1.6      1.5      1.3       1.3      1.2      1.6      1.8
Private                                                2.3      7.8      6.4      6.2      6.1       6.9     10.8      9.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                                             36.2    42.2    40.6    38.6    36.3    34.2            35.0    35.6
Private                                              15.3      11.3    11.0       9.5    14.8    19.3         7.6     11.5
bANK GROUP EXPOSURE (%)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                       4        3        2        i         1        1        1
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements             -        -        -                  -        -        -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                     -        1        5        4         4        3        4
IDA DOD/total DOD                                       18       21       22       21        24       26       28
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements             21       22       32       20       32        24       32
IDA debt service/total debt service                      3        2        5        5     4            6        7
IBRD/IDA Lending,
Dec. 1982 (mill. US$)
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
TERM STRUCTURE                                              at End of June 1982                                                       IBRD    IDA
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (2)                                                 Outstanding & Disbursed                  54.9  1,270.0
Maturities due within 5 years                                     16.9                   Undisbursed                                -   1,047.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                    41.6                   Outstanding, inml. Undisbursed           54.9  2,317.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within first year                                     1.7
not available
ASADD
August 31, 1983



-31-                               ANNEX II
Page! 1 of 4
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30. 198:3)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Y    Number      Year   Borrower                Purpose             Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 29 credits fully disbursed                       54.90   876.48
341       1972  Bangladesh  Tubewells (replaces Credit
No. 208-PAK of 1970)           -      14.00        0.54
487       1974  Bangladesh  Telecommunications II              -       20.00       2.16
527       1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                -       62.00        1.70
542       1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                 -       27.00      10.46
605       1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli. Irrigation              -       22.00       6.05
621       1976  Bangladesh  Agricultural & Rural Training  -           12.00        2.02
631       1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                  -       16.00        5.75
632       1976  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank             -       25.00       3.54
724       1977  Bangladesh  Shallow Tubewells                  -       16.00        1.84/c
725       1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigation                  -       21.00       10.88
735       1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II          -        5.00        1.01
765       1978  Bangladesh  Jute                               -       21.00      13.03
787       1978  Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II               -       25.00      13.74
825       1978  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II            -        7.00       3.00
828       1978  Bangladesh  Agr:icultural Research             -        6.00       0.91
864       1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control           -       19.00      11.84
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries              -        6.00       3.87
912       1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training                -       25.00      17.64
921       1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II  -          32.00       26.74
934       1979  Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -      28.00       21.44
941       1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Walter Supply &
Sewerage II                    -      22.00        4.83
955       1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                  -      25.00       20.09
964       1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                        -       10.00       7.88
990       1980  Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                     -      37.00       20.74
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c  Undisbursed balance cancelled in October (effective September 29).



-32-                               ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amount s
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                 Purpose            Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1001       1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II         -       20.00      17.85
1023       1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 -      29.00       23.07
1032       1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                 -      20.00       13.80
1042       1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation             -       11.00       7.55
1054       1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary
Education)                     -      40.00       33.09
1065/d     1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III           -       35.00      25.39
1091/d     1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development          -       85.00      16.47
1096/d     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport               -       25.00      13.28
1117/d     1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Ban'k II         -       50.00      27.64
1124/d     1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV            -       16.00      11.12
11401d     1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                     -       18.00      12.75
1147/d     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                -       40.00      27.24
1184/d     1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II    -           27.00      24.01
1194/d     1982  Bangladesh  Imports Program X                  -      100.00      10.62
1204/d     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea FertiLizer         -       15.00      13.53
12051d     1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry
Rehabilitation                 -      30.00       27.58
1215/d     1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II            -       27.00      23.23
1247/d     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                    -      60.00       57.07
12541d     1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power             -       92.00      87.40
1262/d     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification              -      40.00       38.04
1287/d     1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                  -      68.00       63.94
1300/d     1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI                 -     110.00       75.01
13011d     1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                 -       6.00        5.19
13181d     1983  Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training           -       7.80        7.72
1321/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III             -       35.00      34.35
1349/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                    -      12.00       11.73
/d  Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  Amounts of
principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect
on September 30, 1983, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits funded
out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange in effect on
the dates of disbursement.
/e Not yet effective.



33                                ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellaltions)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                 Purpose             Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1357/d Le  1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation        -       28.50       28.00
1384/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Rural Development II                -     100.00       98.08
1396/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II            -       8.10        8.03
1399/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                -        20.00      19.44
1402/d Le  1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                      -        23.00      22.64
Total                                                     54.90  2.577.88  1,096.54
of which repaid                                           -         1.63      -
Total now outstanding                                     54.90  2.576.25
Amount sold                                              0.00       0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                            54.90  2.576.25
Total undisbursed                                                            1:,096.54
Ld  Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  Amounts of
principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of-
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect
on September 30, 1983, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits funded
out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange in effect on
the dates of disbursement.
Le Not yet effective.



-34-                               ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1984) La
Fiscal                                                                Amounts in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                 Tvye of Business             Loan   Equity    Total
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                   1.20      0.36      1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of           Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.                Finance Company               -        1.05      1.05
Total gross commitments                                               1.20      1.41      2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales               -         -         -
Total now held by IFC                                                 1.20      1.41      2.61
Total undisbursed                                                     0.65       -        0.65
/a  The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1982    Bata Shoe Co.                    Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.               and Tannery                  2.70      0.50      3.20



ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
one year
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
UNIDO/UNDP, BTNC, and private mills
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA and date of first
mission to consider the project:
December 1982
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
September 1983
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:
April 6, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



-36-
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:    Speial Conditions:
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  BTMC to employ management and financial consultants
(paragraph 40);
(b) GOB and BSB/BSRS to conclude Administrative Agreements
satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 50);
(c) GOB and BTMC to' conclude a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
satisfactory to' IDA (paragraph 50);
(d)  GOB to conclude technical assistance arrangements
for a program of in-plant production and managerial
counseling for the private sector mills
(paragraph 57); and
(e) GOB to employ an Industrial Economist for the Planning
Cell of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce
(paragraph 58).
Other Conditions
(a) GOB to confirm and maintain its policy of free-market
pricing of textile products (paragraph 39);
(b) GOB to confirm and maintain its policy of causing public
sector mills to function as commercial enterprises
and of giving no special advantage to such mills
(paragraph 40);
(c)  GOB and BTMC to submit subloan proposals to IDA for
review prior to final approval (paragraphs 53 and 55);
(d)  GOB to appoint consultants to carry out the market
and demand study and the handloom sector study by
December 31, 1984 (paragraph 56);
(e)  GOB to appoint experts to assist in in-service training
of personnel employed in public and private textile
mills by December 31, 1984 (paragraph 56); and
(f) GOB to prepare aL long-term textile industry strategy
paper by December 31, 1985, for review with IDA
(paragraph 56).



-~~~~~~~~~~~~0 .,2s
' ,B2                              :-. 89        ... 906        |2BANGLADESH
,... >su  : '"SECOND TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
To
C                                     ( Iyte-  e \  ffjr  aShoft:  MP.ILLS REHABILITATION                   HANDOOA DENSITY
D    Spinning                                  J Below 1,0C0
-26 !   -;i-      $     ,   S-  =; -t >.tu  .j                               Spinning oand Weoving                       1,000   1,999                26-
[s  Spinning, Weaving and Fin,shlng               2,000   3,999
4,000   5,9 99
Rarigp                 --              t-.    *0 MIs Not Included in [tIe Prolect .        6000   9,999
hToKanhar   f    f          _A. 'i',=  '.' -\    -                          Roads                                 p.   10,000-Above
F. DKfihpuGm :- ] @  .  @.  ;S :Rolwaysd CTTO PRDUCIONAREAS
D-nternaionl Boundaaries                    Uplond Cotton
;      Comilo Cotton
21                                                                                                                                                    24- 4, $
b d  ad  at vttlo Ie_  \_  - .,,/
I N D I AKVU Xk 
2 R nTUj AKAL B                                 CVITTAGONG
cntpntaent   Tttderw7llnf  _ .                                                            (   - .. ~    s .':..- - -,t  ; 
-22                                                                          ean h o fr SOI. _.'., '_'                                                   ,_\. .    22 
Dhekc j
BA iG' AU%SH
on hl.pdMILESO                                      25           50           75 _                                          R M  A
21' f                                                                                                            21-  r
KILOMETERS 0 -             50 -0-
A.'                                                                                                                                                   nesero    raf   x.  , \i s.. ~              'e
55R! LANKA            j                                                       '-
> ;                                         lOATESn0 5                                 9f            
/                                                                                  |                     \\             (D fxi}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
,   k:;i 



I      I                                                                      I      I



