OFICIF       SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF-22 BD
'DOCUMENTS
Special Fund Credit Agreement
(Second Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the
International Development Association
Dated                             ,1984


﻿SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF-22 BD
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     QDEJu       e 9<         , 1984, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADE H ( ereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FUND established with funds contributed by certain mem-
bers of the International Development Association (hereinafter
called the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) by Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted on Octo-
ber 26, 1982, of the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) there has been
established by IDA a Special Fund constituted by the funds which
shall be contributed by certain members of IDA and administered
by IDA, acting as Administrator of such Special Fund, for the
purpose of, and in accordance with, the provisions of said Reso-
lution;
(B) the Borrower has requested of the Administrator assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Fund in the financing of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement (as herein defined), and the Administrator has deter-
mined that such assistance would be in accordance with the
provisions of the Resolution referred to above;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) IDA is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to twenty-one million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,600,000) (hereinafter called the
IDA Credit);
(D) the Project, to the extent that it relates to the
Public Mills (as defined in the Development Credit Agreement),
will be carried out or caused to be carried out by the Bangladesh
Textile Mills Corporation (hereinafter called BTMC) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to BTMC part of the proceeds of the
Special Fund Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(E) the Project, to the extent that it relates to the
Private Mills (as defined in the Development Credit Agreement),
will be carried out by the Borrower with the assistance of the


﻿-2-
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (hereinafter called BSB) and the Bangla-
eish Shilpa Rin Sangstha (hereinafter called BSRS) using part of
the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Special Fund Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated June 30, 1980, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association
acting as the Administrator of the Special Fund referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "Special Fund Credit Agreement", "Special Fund
Credit" and "Special Fund Credit Account", respectively;
(c) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the


﻿-3-
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Fund Resolution" means Resolution No. IDA 82-6
of the Executive Directors of IDA which, inter alia, establishes
the Special Fund;
(b) "Part I member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part I of Schedule A to those Articles;
(c) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA which
is not a Part I member of IDA;
(d) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Administrator, IDA and BTMC of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(e) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BTMC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement as incorporated
herein, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(f) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower aad IDA for the purpose
of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of IDA, dated June 30, 1980, as
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules to the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Special Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Special Fund Credit Agreement, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to twenty million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 20,700,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Special Fund Credit may
be withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of (A) any Part II member of IDA; or (B) any Part I
member of IDA which fulfills the conditions set forth in para-
graph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund Resolution on the date of
this Agreement, as determined by the Administrator.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Special Fund Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Special Fund Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit Account or
shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid:. (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the Special Fund Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15,
1994, and ending April 15, 2034, each installment to and includ-
ing the installment payable on April 15, 2004, to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America,
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
Articles III and IV of, and Schedules 2, 4 and 5 to, the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, as such Articles and Schedules may be
amended from time to time, are incorporated in, and made a part
of, this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they. were
fully set forth herein; provided, however, that for the purposes
of this Agreement: (i) the reference to the Credit in said Arti-
cles and said Schedule 4 shall be deemed to be a reference to
the Special Fund Credit; and (ii) the reference to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement in said Articles and said Schedules 4 and 5
shall be deemed to be a reference to this Agreement.
(b) As long as the Administrator has not given notice to
the contrary to the Borrower and so long as the Development
Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the termina-
tion of this Agreement: (i) the obligations of the Borrower to
consult with and to furnish or cause to be furnished, informa-
tion, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the
Administrator shall be satisfied to the extent performance in


﻿-6-
respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association; (ii)
the obligations of the Administrator to consult with and to fur-
nish information to the Borrower shall be satisfied to the extent
such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and (iii) all
actions taken (including the giving of approvals or the granting
of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit
Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the Special Fund Credit Agreement and
in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Admin-
istrator.
ARTICLE IV
Resedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) BTMC shall have failed to perform any of its covenants,
agreements or obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BTMC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Order (as defined in the Development Credit Agree-
ment) shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the
ability of BTMC to carry out the covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdic-
-ion shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disesta-
Thment of BTMC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant, loan or credit (in-
cluding the IDA Credit) made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor; or


﻿-7-
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrowver under this Agree-
ment.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gene-
ral Conditions, the fn_llowing additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreemnent shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Administrator to the Borrower and BTMC;
(b)  any event specified in paragraph (c) or paragraph (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (R) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and BTMC.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Administrator, namely:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BTMC, and is legally binding upon BTMC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and BTMC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and BTMC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date                L   // (   , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.03, 4.04, 4.05 and 4.06 of the Development Credit Agreement
(as incorporated in this Agreement) and the provisions of para-
graph (b) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Special Fund Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date eighteen (18) years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 5.05. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the Special Fund pursuant to paragraph 17 of the Special Fund
Resolution, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower,
designate another party which, on the date specified in such
notice, shall assume part or all of the rights and obligations of
the Administrator under this Agreement in accordance with the
Special Fund Resolution and such decision of the Executive
Directors, as specified in such notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the
External Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                          Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                            65886 SETU
Dhaka
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Fund
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                          Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have cauned this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established wi:th funds contributed by
certain members of the International
Development Association
ByS
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEELE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Fund Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Special Fund
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment,
machinery and
spare parts
(a) Part A (i)          4,706,000         100% of foreign
of the Project                       expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 70% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(b) Part A (ii)         7,997,000         100% of foreign
of the Project                       expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 70% of
local expenditures
for items procured
locally


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Special Fund
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(2) Raw materials                                100 of foreign
expenditures
(a) Part A (i)          2,821,000
of the
Project
(b) Part A (ii)         4,706,000
of the
Project
(3) Unallocated                470,000
TOTAL             20,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of, and for goods produced in or services supplied
from, any country other than the Borrower which is (A) a Part II
member of IDA or (B) a Part I member of IDA which fulfills the
conditions set forth in paragraph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund
Resolution on the date of the Special Fund Credit Agreement, as
determined by the Administrator; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Administrator that the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit shall not be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on or in respect of items in any Category
decreases or increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the


﻿- 13 -
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such Category as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Administrator.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Fund Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Fund Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Fund Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be fina.-ced out of the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit, and the Administrator may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Administrator under the Special Fund Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Special Fund
Credit as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement under Part A (ii)
of the Project
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and except as provided in Part C
hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (July 1980 edition)
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guiie--
lines. The above-mentioned eligibility restrictions shall be
stated in the tender documents for the procurement of such goods.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward
to the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request; the
Administrator will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account:
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
People's Republic of Bangladesh may be granted a margin of pre-
ference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured        in
People's Republic of Bangladesh if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Administrator that the manufac-
turing cost of such goods includes a value added
in People's Republic of Bangladesh equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 16 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the bid from group A in such fui7ther comparison is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment, machinery and spare parts, costing
less than the equivalent of $500,000 each, may be awarded in
accordance with BSB's and BSRS's standard procedures <-atisfactory
to the Administrator.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment, machinery and
spare parts each estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Administrator's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Administrator, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received and
such other information as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. The Administrator shall, if it determines that the


﻿- 17 -
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditionF of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Special Fund Credit Account in
respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Special Fund Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure), the Borrower shall furnish to the
Administrator, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Special Fund Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Administrator
shall reasonably request. The Administrator shall, if it deter-
mines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of -such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if
it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed Inis Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


