FILE Copy                                   Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1784-TR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 11, 1976
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EJIVALENTS
Currency Unit:         Trinidad and Tobago Dollar (TT$)
From December 1971
to July 3, 1972:     TT$1 = US$o.54 or
us$1   TT$1.84
Since July 1972, the TT$ has been floating with Pound Sterling.
The exchange rate used in this report is that which prevailed at end
1975, viz:
TT$1 = US$0.42 or
US$l = TT$2.37
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO FUR A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the foDllowing report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Trinidad and Tobago for the equivalent of $7.0 million to finance a highway
project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 4 years of grace,
with interest at 8.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECCRMY
Introduction
2.        The Bank's latest economic report entitled "Economic Position and Pros-
pects of Trinidad and Tobago" (435-TR) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on August 8, 1974. A country data summary is attached as Annex I.
Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
3.        Petroleum production and refining play a dominant role in the economy of
Trinidad and Tobago, and recent favorable developments in the petroleum sector have
changed the country's economic prospects dramatically. An important new oil field
off the east coast came into production at the beginning of 1972, and the output
of domestic crude oil from all sources has now reached 80 million barrels a year
as against 47 million barrels in 1971. In addition, substantial natural gas re-
sources have been found offshore and some production has already started. These
discoveries have coincided with a fourfold increase in world petroleum prices
since early 1973. As a result of all these factors the GDP of the petroleum sector
increased fourfold between 1972 and 1974 and now constitutes about 40% of total GDP.
4.        This turn of events must be viewed, however, against the background of an
extended period of financial constraint which depressed the economy of Trinidad and
Tobago throughout the late sixties and early seventies. Petroleum production de-
clined from 65 million barrels in 1967 to 47 million in 1971 because of the depletion
of reserves from traditional producing areas on land. This decline coincided with
weaknesses in agriculture and tourism, and was only partially offset by the conti-
nuing growth of manufacturing industry which was stimulated by the establishment
of the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA) in 1968. During the five-year
period following 1968 Trinidad and Tobago's GDP rose at an annual average rate of
only 1.8% in real terms. The balance of payments and the fiscal situation deterio-
rated progressively during this period and by 1973 the country appeared to be on
the brink of a financial crisis which was averted only by the rise in petroleum
prices.
5.        Although not itself a member of OPEC, Trinidad and Tobago nevertheless
benefitted from the rise in the world price of petroleum. The government changed
its system of petroleum company taxation in 1974 to ensure that the benefits of
higher prices accrued largely to the Treasury.  Total current revenues of the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



central government increased two and one-half fold in 1974 and foreign exchange
reserves rose to $390 million by the end of that year. Reserves continued to rise
during 1975 and by December of that year had reached $740 million-sufficient
to cover one year's merchandise imports.
6.        The spectacular rise in revenues from the petroleum sector has relieved
financial constraints to growth in Trinidad and Tobago, but there still remain
serious structural problems which impede the development effort. It is not sur-
prising, therefore, that real domestic product grew by only 4% during 1974 and did
no better in 1975 despite the availability of ample financial resources. Amongst
the fundamental structural problems that must be tackled if Trinidad and Tobago is
to harness effectively its new found riches to promote growth and development, the
following three issues are of particular importance.
a) Trinidad and Tobago manifests many of the negative symptoms of a
"dual economy" in which the advanced technology and high productivity of the petro-
leum sector contrasts sharply with the more modest achievements of the rest of the
economy. High earnings from petroleum threaten to increase the gap between the
petroleum sector and the rest of the economy even further, and the most challenging
development issue during the coming years will be to bridge this gap. In this res-
pect, attention must focus upon the distribution of petroleum revenues throughout
the economy, and upon the extent to which these revenues can be harnessed to promote
a more balanced sectoral growth.
b) The labor market in Trinidad and Tobago has been profoundly affected
by the special circumstances of the petroleum sector. The employees of this sector
are able to secure a high level of remuneration so that they constitute an elite
group within the national frame of reference. Their high wages and generoas fringe
benefits tend to be pacesetters for other sectors so that the level of money costs
in the economy as a whole is largely determined by the highly efficient petroleum
industry. The ability of other sectors to absorb high cost labor is strictly
limited and this has resulted in a persistently high level of unemployment, conser-
vatively estimated at 14% of the labor force. The amelioration of this problem must
figure prominently amongst the development goals of the government.
c) The extent to which petroleum revenues can be effectively deployed to
promote growth and development is limited by the absorptive capacity of the economy.
In this respect the administrative shortcomings of the public sector are particu-
larly important in view of the government's declared policy to extend the scope of
public ownership and control to all sectors of the economy. To some extent these
shortcomings reflect a scarcity of specialized administrative and management skills
which exists despite more general unemployment. There exists also an excessive
degree of centralization within the public service which produces bottlenecks in
the decision-making process.
7.        Yet another factor which complicates the situation of Trinidad and Tobago
is the inflationary pressure which has built up since 1972--a development which should
be viewed against the background of relatively stable prices which Trinidad and Tobago
has traditionally enjoyed. In 1972, retail prices rose by 9.3%A,in 1973 by 15%, and
in 1974 by a further 20%. Three factors can be identified as the principal cause of
this unprecedented rise in prices: first, the effects of accelerating world inflation



- 3 -
were particularly acute in the case of Trinidad and Tobago where merchandise imports
amount to almost 40% of GDP; second, agricultural production was hit by a severe
drought in 1972 and the supply of local foodstuffs was much less than normal; third,
mounting fiscal deficits in the earlier part of this period were resolved, in part,
by inflationary borrowing from the Central Bank. It is encouraging that more recent
figures indicate a moderation in the rate of inflation during 1975 to some 17%, and
the following considerations suggest that this trend is likely to continue. The im-
proved foreign exchange sitaation has enabled the government to institute a liberal
import policy and thereby ease the aggregate supply. Furthermore, because of the
strengthened fiscal situation, the government has had no need to continue inflatio-
nary borrowing. The resolution of the government to fight inflation, backed by
ample financial resources, gives reason to assume that, after 1975, inflation may
be reduced to no more than the general world level.
8.        Government reaction to the rapid increase in fiscal revenues and foreign
exchange receipts from petroleum has been cautious. Central government current
expenditures have been expanded relatively modestly in 1974 and 1975, in keeping
with the government's view that high oil prices may not be a permanent phenomenon.
At this stage at least, the government has avoided establishing high levels of
current expenditures which could not be sustained in the event that petroleum
prices were to roll back significantly. Instead, substantial sums have been cre-
dited to a number of "Special Funds" to finance future investments which the govern-
ment considers basic to its development strategy which emphasizes the use of local
petroleum and gas resources for the country's industrial development. Plans have
been announced to establish an aluminum smelter complex, a second ammonia plant and
a second cement plant. Discussions are also under way regarding the feasibility of
an iron and steel plant and additional petrochemical facilities.
9.        The government has also declared its intention to increase its support to
agriculture, and to this end1 an agricultural development fund has been established.
In this respect the emphasi, of government policy appears to be the diversification
of agriculture from traditional export crops into food production. It is important,
however, that due attention be given to the further improvement of traditional export
agriculture which still provides employment for the bulk of the rural labor force.
10.       The proposed developments in both industry and agriculture will place
heavy demands upon the existing infrastructure of Trinidad and Tobago. It is notable
that early in 1975 a government-sponsored conference on the best use of the coun-
try's petroleum resources gaive prominence to the timely and purposeful expansion
of infrastructure as a prerequisite for the development of both industry and agri-
culture. Many of the multinational corporations which are contemplating major
new industrial investments jointly with the government cite infrastructure as
being a potential constraint to the effective implementation of their plans.
With this in mind, the government is giving high priority to improving the provi-
sion of such basic services as water, power, telecommunications and transport.
The proposed project falls within that general policy framework.
11.       The increased revenues from petroleum presents the government with an
excellent opportunity to tackle these sectoral issues and a number of other basic
economic and social problems which beset Trinidad and Tbbago. With improved
administrative capabilities,, particularly in the field of project planning and
preparation, it should be pcossible to achieve a sustained GDP growth of 7 or 8%
in the long run.



-4 -
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
12.       Due to sluggish public sector investment during most of the 1960s, the
flow of external capital to Trinidad and Tobago's public sector has been relatively
modest, amounting to $110 million in 1965-72. As against this, the inflow of net
private investment capital in the same period totaled $420 million, most of it in
1970-72 when new petroleum production facilities were established. Official loan
commitments were accelerated over the period 1967-73, partly consisting of borrow-
ing from commercial banks to shore-up a steadily deteriorating fiscal situation.
13.       Trinidad and Tobago's public investment requirements in the medium term
are expected to be substantial considering the need for both economic diversifica-
tion and an acceleration of real growth. There are good prospects that these
requirements will be met largely from domestic resources as long as high petroleum
prices prevail. Since 1974, the government endeavored to build up its reserve
position from the low 1973 levels, as well as to liquidate its short-term debts
including sums borrowed on the Eurodollar market at high rates of interest, and to
respond favorably to requests for assistance from its Caribbean Community (CARICOM)
partners which faced serious difficulty in coping with high import bills. Finally,
the government lent funds to the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB),
to contribute to the lending resources of both institutions.
14.       Trinidad and Tobago has ample creditworthiness for borrowing on conven-
tional terms. The external public debt of the country is low by international
standards; at the end of 1972, it equaled 11% of GDP with a debt service ratio of
3% to exports of goods and services. The debt service ratio may rise to 10% by
1979 if the government presses forward with large capital-intensive projects. This
ratio is quite high when due consideration is given to the openness of the economy
and the importance of exports within GDP. Nevertheless, it is unlikely that debt
servicing will constitute a problem for Trinidad and Tobago. In the first place,
the country will continue to receive substantial interest and principal repayments
on the loans and investments it has already made and will continue to make with
a portion of its petroleum revenues. Second, most of the anticipated increase in
external borrowing will finance investments which are directly aimed at increasing
exports. The foreign exchange earnings of these investments should be ample to
cover the servicing of the external borrowing involved. The Bank's present share
in the total amount outstanding and disbursed is 24%, while its share in the debt
service is 28% (after the government's repayment in full of high interest Eurodollar
loans). These shares may decrease in the next few years as Trinidad and Tobago
begins to finance its ambitious development program from supplier's credits and
other sources.
15.       Trinidad and Tobago is now at a critical period in its development.
During this transition period, external development agencies may be particularly
helpful in assisting the government, specifically in the fields of policy planning
and institutional improvement. This has required new relationships to be worked
out between Trinidad and Tobago and international development agencies, including
the Bank Group.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
16.       Bank lending tc Trinidad and Tobago to date totals $95.7 million (net
of cancellations) including the first loan made for a power project in 1961 with
the guarantee of the United Kingdom. Of this, $13.8 million has been repaid.
Gross disbursements amount to $57.7 million and $38.0 million remains undisbursed.
In all, eleven projects have been assisted by the Bank, of which two each are for
agriculture, education, development banking and power, and one each for highways
family planning and telecommunications. Loans for power and telecommunications
development account for 43% while assistance for agriculture and education account
for 37% of total Bank lending to the country. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank loans to Trinidad and Tobago and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
17.       So far there have been no investments of the International Finance
Corporation (IFC) in Trinidad and Tobago but it has actively sought investments
in the country. Preliminary discussions have been held regarding IFC participa-
tion in a furfural plant as well as an iron reduction and steel-making project.
18.       Until the recent increase in world oil prices which has significantly
altered the country's resource outlook in the medium term, Bank lending to Trinidad
and Tobago had been designed mainly to contribute to the transfer of external re-
sources while at the same time improving its infrastructure and institutions and
increasing employment and output. Assuming that oil prices will not drop signifi-
cantly from their present levels and that the volume of Trinidad and Tobago's oil
exports will remain high, the country will have considerable resources at
its disposal to finance its development effort. The substantial change in the
country's resource outlook has enlarged its options in the choice of development
strategy. In these circumstances, external assistance has a role, not essentially
in terms of transferring resources, but in terms of identifying priority sectors
and providing technical assistance in policy planning and institutional development
to enhance the country's c-apacity quickly to prepare and execute projects.
19.       Within this framework, the Bank and the government durinig the last two
years have had several exchanges of views on the scope and composition of future
Bank lending to Trinidad and Tobago and of the contribution that the government
might be able to make to the Bank's resources. The government has not considered
its external prospects to be such as to permit it to undertake a full "offset" of
future Bank loans through the purchase of correspondingly long-term securities.
However, it has been makinlg purchases from the Bank's two-year Central Bank
issues as part of its program of diversifying its official foreign exchange hold-
ings, and is planning to continue such purchases in the future. In response to
this situation, the Bank informed the government last December that it would not
require a formal and full "offset" arrangement, but that it welcomed the govern-
ment's program of purchasing the Bank's two-year bonds and would be guided by
the amount of such purchases in deeiding on its future lending to Trinidad and
Tobago. The government invested $5 million in the two-year bond issue which was
made in September 1975, ancd has subscribed an additional $05 million to the
two-year bond issue offered in February 1976. Its total holdings of two-year
bonds are now $5.95 million.



-0-
20.       Present prospects are for a modest Bank lending program in Trinidad and
Tobago in the foreseeable future. Bank loans to Trinidad and Tobago would assist
in implementing carefully selected projects designed to improve the country's
institutions and help remove the technical, managerial and administrative bottle-
necks which, from now on, will be the major constraints to economic development.
In keeping with this approach, the Bank envisages assisting a rural development
project and an educntion pro ect over 'he next two to three years.
21.        In the agricultural sector, the Bank made a loan in 1973 for rehabilita-
ting the Caroni Sugar Company (Ln. 888-TR). With a view to assisting the small-
holder sector and strengthening government institutions servicing agriculture and
rural development, we plan to assist in the financing of a rural development/land
settlement project in Southern Caroni lands. The project would also promote
agricultural diversification and utilization of the unexploited physical and
economic potential of the countrv throuigh development of tree crops.
22.       In the social sector, the government is reviewing its education program
at this time with a view to developing institutions and plans which are responsive
to the changing needs of the econovW. The Bank has given some assistance to the
government in this review. ve plan to send a joint Bank/UNE3CO mission to
Trinidad and Tobago later this year to identify a project for Bank financing.
23.       The country's transportatiorn system has not kept pace with the requiremerlts
of a growing economy and this is reflected in high production and distribution costs
attributable, in part,to high transportation costs. The Bank made its first loan
to the highway sector in 1967 (Ln. h97-TR for $8.6 million) to assist in financing
construction and supervision of a new 17-mile four-lane expressway (now named the
Solomon Hochoy Highway) in the North-South Transport Corridor to improve the route
between Port-of-Spain and San Fernando, the second largest city. Because of the
poor performance of the original consultants and delays by the Ministry of Works
in prequalifying contractors and in awarding and signing contracts, completion of
the highway was delayed until March 1975. The proposed second highway project
would assist in upgrading highest priority sections of the Ehst-West Corridor,
where a large part of the country's population and commercial and industrial
activities are concentrated. The project would also provide for detailed engineer-
ing of other high priority road improvements (including a bus priority route) and
in developing the local contracting industry and in improving the operations of the
Highways Division with respect to both the national highways and the rural roads.
2h.       The implementation of the projeets diseussed above would be an integral
part of the government's overall development efforts as set out in its recent offi-
cial statements. They would also be in close harmony with the programs of activities
of the IDB and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) in Trinidad and
Tobago. (IDA and the United Kingdom's Overseas Development Ministry (CUM) are
providing experts and fellowships needed in conjunction with the Bank's second
education project (Ln. 862-TR).
PART III - THE HIGHWIAY SUBSECTCR
25.       Trinidad and Tobago is almost entirely dependent on road transportation
for internal movement of people and goods. The colutry is small in size (5128 km2)



- 7 -
and has a high population density (621 persons per km  of arable land). Many
residents live within a conmmuting distance to Port-of-Spain, which is also the
country's banking, manufacturing and commercial center as well as its general
cargo port. Indeed, about a quarter of the total population of about one million
lives in the area of greater Port-of-Spain and a further 150,000 live in adjacent
towns east and west of the capital.
26.       Trinidad and Tobago has a road network of about 4,400 miles of which
1,900 miles are national highways under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Works
(MOW) and the remainder are secondary roads under the Ministry of Local Govern-
ment and the-Ministry of Tobago Affairs. Because of the proximity of the country's
population centers to each other, average haulage and travel distances are short.
There are two major transport corridors (see map), the Bst-West Corridor and the
North-South Corridor. The Ncrth-South Corridor, for which a Bank loan was made in
1967 (ref. paragraph 22), joins the East-West Corridor six miles east of Port-of-
Spain and extends south to San Fernando and beyond to the developing petroleum
industry zcnes in the southwest of the island. Additionally, a cross-island
route from qan Fernando to the southeast of Trinidad is becoming increasingly
important due to petroleumi exploration and production off the east coast.
27.       The East-West Corridor traverses the most denaely populated part of the
country. To avoid congestion, there has been diffusion of activity in the corridor
for some years and the government is considering development of sites to relocate
some Ministries and industries from Port-of-Spain. There is considerable industrial
development at Arima, about 16 miles east of Port-of-Spain. The government has
also been considering a phased program which, inter alia, seeks to shift passenger
trirs from private automobiles to public transport (buses). It has approved the
utilization of the right-of-way of an abandoned railway between Port-of-Spain and
Arima for construction of a two-lane roadway (Bus Priority Route) to be used by mass
transi i vohiclas and energency vehicles.
28.       Vehicle density In the country is about 100 vehicles per 1,000 inhabit-
ants. Some 71% (79,000) of the vehicles are classified as private cars, but it is
a commnon practice in Triniclad and Tobago to share rides with other passengers. The
rate of growth of motor vehicles, which averaged 5.3% per annum during the past
decade, is decreasing and the public bus company, Public Transportation Service
Corporation (PTSC), is substantially increasing its fleet with a view to providing a
minimum essential bus service throughout the country by 1977. Road traffic data
are not collected systematically; the last countrywide survey was carried out in
1967 as part of the preparation for the National Transportation Plan. Traffic
counts in 1973 and 1974, specifically for the East-West Corridor study, indicated
an average daily traffic in the range of 22,000 to 27,000 vpd on the two-lane
Churchill-Roosevelt Highway up to the Southern Main Road and 37,000 vpd on the
four-lane Beetham Highway. The destern Main Road and the Eastern Main Road carry
up to about 50,000 and 40,000 vpd, respectively.  In the North-South Corridor and
on the Princess Margaret Highway and the Solomon Hochoy Highway, traffic ranges
between 13,000 and 18,000 vpd, and, on the cross-island road between San Fernando
and the east coast, from 3,000 to 8,600 vpd. Traffic congestion is now severe along
all the East-West Corridor roads and on the Princess Margaret Highway. Average
annual traffic growth on the above roads since 1966 has ranged from 5% to 10%.



- 8 -
29.       National highway expenditures, including construction, maintenance,
equipment, studies and engineering and administration, increased from a yearly
average of TT$10 million in 1964-1968 to TT$20 million in 1970-1974. The high-
way expenditure forecast (in 1975 prices) shows a moderate increase in 1976-1980
to a yearly average of about TT$28 million.
30.       Highway investment programs are prepared by the MOW but the Ministry
of Finance and Planning (MFP) exercises overall control of government investment.
The highway program for 1076-1980 includes investments in the Last-dest and
NVorth-South Transport Corridors as highest priority projects. However, MOW is
also aware of the need for road investments in other areas of the country,
especially the extension south of the Solomon Hochoy Highway and the cross-island
route to the southeast. The government intends to update the 1967 National
Transportation Plan and MOW will revise its investment program accordingly. The
planning capability of the Highways Division of MOW, although gradually improving,
is inadequate to carry out the program envisaged for the next decade, and technical
assistance to help in this area would be provided under the proposed Bank project.
31.       MOd, through its Highways Division is responsible for planning, construc-
tion and maintenance of national highways. The Highways Division is responsible
for all engineering aspects (survey, site and laboratory investigation, feasibility
studies, detailed design and construction supervision) of national highway projects,
and also provides technical assistance, where required, for road projects not under
the jurisdiction of MOW. Design standards for new highways generally conform with
modern principles and are appropriate. Studies and engineering of major projects
have been carried out by foreign consultants generally in joint venture with local
consultants, usually TRINTOPLAN, which is partly government-owned. The government
intends to give local consultants increasing participation in future engineering
projects, with expatriate input being limited to specific fields in which the
local capability or capacity is insufficient.
32.       All major road construction work is performed by contract; the Highways
Division force account work is limited to culverts, small bridges, some asphaltic surfac-
ings and minor improvements to road alignments. The major new construction in the
past ten years has been the 17-mile Solomon Hochoy Highway constructed under the
Bank's first highway loan (Loan 497-TR). The construction was undertaken by a
foreign cor.tractor, with one of the larger local firms as subcontractor.  Foreign
consultants supervised the construction. Local contractors were engaged in asphaltic
concrete overlay work and some minor roadworks and structures. As a whole the local
construction industry is small with limited experience.   Technical assistance to
improve it would be included in the proposed Bank project.
33.       Maintenance of the national roads is performed by the roads construction
branch of the Highways Division. Routine and periodic maintenance is carried out
from eight district offices.  Until 1974, road maintenance tended to be neglected
and, under increasing traffic and axle loads, pavements deteriorated. In 1974,
MOol embarked on a resurfacing program -- some 107 miles of roads were overlayed in
that year, 130 miles in 1975 and a similar mileage is expected to be treated in
1976. However, design of overlay does not appear to have received sufficient atten-
tion. The proposed Bank project would assist in improving this situation, as
referred to in paragraphs 39 and 41 below.



- 9 -
34.       The Highways Division has 18 posts for engineers.   The senior engineers
are fairly experienced and capable, and the organization has become more efficient
in the past few years. However, insufficient attention is being given to: (a) col-
lection, monitoring and analysis of road and traffic data; (b) coordination of,
and participation in, consultant's work; (c) contract administration, including
field supervision of contractors' work; (d) planning of investments; (e) design
and execution of upgrading and strengthening of existing roads; and (f) soils and
materials testing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       A report entitled "Trinidad and Tobago Appraisal of a Second Highway
Project" (No.909a-TR dated March 10, 1976) is being distributed separately. A
loan and project summary is attached as Annex III and maps of the project roads
are appended thereto.
36.       The project was appraised in April 1975 and negotiations for the loan
were held in Washington in January 1976. The negotiators from Trinidad and Tobago
were led by Mr. Frank Barsotti, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
37.       The proposed project is related to the feasibility studies carried out
in 1972/74 with assistance from CIDA to determine optimum solutions for improving
conditions in the country's transport corridors, in particular the heavily con-
gested East-West Corridor. The project consists of:
(a) civil works for upgrading of about 7.6 miles of main roads in the
East-West Corridor and provision of two grade-separated inter-
changes and the construction and improvement of about 2.6 miles of
local roads;
(b) strengthening and/or resurfacing of about 60 miles of paved rural
roads;
(c) consulting services for supervision of the civil works and for
detailed engineering of project-related road sections in the
East-West Corridor, the Bus. Priority Route (12 miles), the
Mucurapo Foreshore Highway west of Port-of-Spain (2 miles), and
the Princess Margaret Highway (8 miles); and
(d)  technical aissistance i) to the MDW for improving its capacity in
planning, design and execution of new roads and in rehabilitating
and strengthening existing roads; and, ii) to assist the Borrower
in strengthening the domestic construction industry to enable it
to assume a more effective role in the country's road construction
programs and develop its expertise and competitiveness.
38.       The upgrading work in the East-West Corridor includes widening of St.
Joseph Road, construction of interchanges and connections to improve access to
the Eastern Main Road, imnigovement of Beetham Highway and widening of the Churchill-
Roosevelt Highway. These :improvements are designed to remove the bottlenecks which
now impede the flow of traffic along one of the main arteries connecting Port-of-
Spain with the rest of the country.



- 10 _
39.       The 60 miles of paved rural roads to be strengthened under the project
would be selected from 200 miles of representative rural roads.   The work envis-
aged comprises improvement of drainage, correction of localized failures and,
generally, an asphaltic overlay or reseal. Minor alignment modifications would
also be made to improve road safety.
40.       Besides detailed engineering for the upgrading of the East-Wbst Corridor
described above, the project would provide for the detailed engineering of (a) the
Bus Priority Route from Port-of-Spain eastward to Arouca (12 miles) using the
right-of-way of the railway, which formerly ran between Port-of-Spain and Arima;
(b) the Mucurapo Foreshore Highway (2 miles) part of the East-West Corridor west
of Port-of-Spain; and (c) Princess Margaret Highway (8 miles). The Princess
Margaret Highway will eventually be widened from the present two lanes to a four-
lane highway, to connect the Solomon Hochoy Highway with the Churchill-Roosevelt
Highway. The feasibility study was carried out as part of the first Bank highway
project, and the construction envisaged would complete a four-lane highway (32
miles) between Port-of-Spain and San Fernando and the petroleum industry zones
in the south.
41.       The technical assistance to MOW would be designed to:   (a) overcome
deficiencies in highway planning; (b) establish and implement procedures for
collection and analysis of data relating to the road system and its traffic;
(c) survey, using modern techniques, about 200 miles of representative rural road
sections in need of improvement; (d) carry out axle load survey, pavement deflec-
tion measurements and pavement design of these 200 miles; and (e) develop from
these 200 miles a two-year program of road improvement and select about 60 miles
to be strengthened under the project, prepare bidding documents and supervise the
work. Technical assistance would also be provided under the project to assist
development of the domestic construction industry. An ongoing study of the con-
struction industry, directed by a committee responsible to the Prime Minister,
is due for completion in early 1977. Areas where technical assistance would be
beneficial would be identified by the study. Basically the technical assistance
would focus on (a) the industry itself and (b) government departments, notably
MOW , to identify how such departments may assist the industry significantly, e.g.
by improving the legal framework of government contracts and the procedure for
paying contractors, and by maintaining a steady and predictable workload on the
industry. The assistance could also examine the capital needs of the industry
and how they might be met. Terms of reference for this assistance would be
agreed with the government when the results of the ongoing study are available.
Project Execution
42.       Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOW; it would
extend over a period of about three years. While the construction of the main civil
works under the project would be carried out by contractors, supervision of these
works is expected to be carried out by-joint venture between foreign and local con-
sultants and with participation by MOW. This is expected to provide local consultants
and MOW on-the-job training for supervision of complex civil works. Detailed
engineering of the civil works was carried out by foreign consultants in joint
venture with the local consulting firm of TRINTOPLAN.



- 11 -
43.       The Bank's participation in the project, in the opinion of the government,
is making an indispensable contribution to the execution of the project. Already,
the Bank and the Borrower have closely cooperated in drawing up the consultant's
terms of reference and the wiork has been carried out satisfactorily and with con-
siderable guidance on the part of the Bank. The satisfactory and timely completion
of these detailed engineering works was a crucial factor for the implementation of
this project and retroactive financing of up to $300,000 out of the proposed loan is
recommended to meet a part of its costs. Detailed engineering of further high priority
sections would be carried out by joint venture between foreign and local consultants
or by local consultants with assistance in some specialized fields from foreign
consultants.
44.       Technical assistance programs for MOW (Highways Divisior.) and for develop-
ing the domestic construction industry would be provided either by consulting firms
or by individual consultants. In all, about 120 man-months of assistance are envis-
aged and the Bank will closely collaborate with the MOW in the supervision of required
services by the technical assistance team.
45.       Besides the need for high priority road works in the East-West Corridor
to reduce serious congestion, the government acknowledges the related need for expanded
public transport facilities and increased traffic control measures, especially in the
Port-of-Spain area. An agency to be responsible for formulation and implementation
of a continuing traffic management system with the objective of ensuring economic use
of existing transport resources and of facilitating the development of public transport
services will be set up by the government not later than June 30, 1976 and measures for
improved traffic management would be implemented by this agency according to a time-
table to be agreed with the Bank not later than January 31, 1977 (see Section 3.08
of the draft Loan Agreement). The government has also agreed to furnish the Bank by
the end of 1977 plans for construction and subsequent operation of the Bus Priority
Route (see Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing Arrangements
46.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $28.5 million equivalent, with
a foreign exchange component of $1h.1 million equivalent. Costs of civil works account
for $20.8 million while consulting services amount to $h.0 million and technical
assistance to $0.8 million. Consultantts services have been estimated at an average
cost of $50,000 per man-year.. Physical contingencies are valued at $1.0 million and
price contingencies at $1.9 million. Since the conditions of contract limit price
adjustment to selected materials and then only after the first year of the contract
period, the price contingency figure amounts to only 7% of total base costs. The pro-
posed Bank loan of $7.0 million would cover about 50% of the estimated foreign
exchange cost of the project. The remaining foreign exchange costs and all local
costs would be met by the government. Annex III contains a breakdown of the costs
and financing plan. Estimates for road upgrading in the EAst-dest Corridor have been
based on detailed engineering prepared by the consultants Lea/TRINTOPLAN and on the
results of the bidding of February 1976. EstiTmtes for strengthening of rural roads
included in the project assure that these works would be done by local contractors.
Supervision costs are predicated on a joint venture of foreign and local consultants
while costs of detailed engineering and technical assistance are based on the assump-
tion that such assistance would be provided by foreign consultants.



- 12 -
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       Contracts for the civil works in the Wast-West 'Corridor, representing
90% of all the civil works proposed under the project, would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding as set forth in the Bank's Guidelines.
For bidding purposes, the works were divided into three sections and bidders
were given the option to bid for any or all of the sections. The lowest evaluated
bid appears to have been by a foreign firm for all three sections, but it is
expected that local firms will participate as sub-contractors. Since the bids
for the small contracts for paved rural roads are unlikely to attract foreign
contractors, calls for bids for these works would be advertised locally.
Preliminary works and paving of specific portions, especially in Tobago, may be
carried out by force account in consultation with the Bank. The selection of
consultants for detailed engineering and technical assistance would be carried
out in consultation with the Bank.
48.       Disbursement of the loan would be on the following basis:   (i) for
civil works, 23% of total cost and (ii) for consulting and technical assistance
services, 40% of total cost.
Benefits and Justification
49.       The project content is varied, but its objectives are:   (a) to help
alleviate some of the pressing problems of severe traffic congestion along the
East-West Corridor which is the main artery between Port-of-Spain and the rest
of the country; (b) to help finance the longer-term solutions to the transportation
problem in the Corridor, notably through preparations for a Bus Priority Route
to help shift to mass transit from the private automobile; (c) to help strengthen
and maintain rural roads to optimum standards; and (d) to improve institutional
capabilities in the Highways Division and in the domestic construction industry.
On conservative assumptions, the economic rate of return for the construction
element as a whole would be 25%.
50.       The upgrading of the East-dest Corridor which accounts for 82% of
total project cost is expected to reduce vehicle operating costs in 1978 by
about 17% and cut travel time by 35% yielding an overall economic rate of return
of 25%. The construction phase of this 7.6 mile project road is expected to
provide employment for up to 1,000 skilled and semi-skilled workers. Improved
traffic conditions on the Beetham/Churchill-Roosevelt road system would attract
traffic from the parallel Eastern Main Road. A secondary benefit of this traffic
diversion would be an improvement in the bus and taxi operations on the Eastern
Main Road which now carries 95% of the transit buses and 60% of the taxis. At the
same time, the upgrading of the Beetham/Churchill-Roosevelt system may result in
an increase of private car commuting. It is common in Trinidad and Tobago that
private automobiles are used as collective cabs (see para. 28). Nevertheless,
measures to discourage the use of private automobiles in the Port-of-Spain area
are warranted. Consultants who carried out the study for improvements in the
East-West Corridor have concluded that measures for traffic regulation, parking,
etc. in the Central Business District of Port-of-Spain should be staged to the
development of the highway and bus transit system. Measures to discourage private
car commuting and to improve public transport services will have a significant
impact toward ensuring the most economic use of the transport resources in
Trinidad and Tobago (see para. 45).



- 13 -
51.       The rural roads are not designed for the traffic they now carry and
in some sections the pavements have failed. Strengthening of these roads,
which is estimated to cost about $35,000 per mile, would obviate the need for
complete reconstruction, which would cost about $100,000 per mile. It is
estimated that the economic return on this project component which accounts
for about 11% of total project cost would be about 25%.
52.       While no economic return has been calculated for the remaining
components of the project, namely detailed engineering of high priority sections
and technical assistancea to MGW and the domestic construction industry, their
impact on promoting the country's capabilities in the sector are quite signi-
ficant. These project components would assist the Highways Division in the
task of early completion of detailed engineering of other high priority improve-
ments so that the proposed project roads could be upgraded by 1981. Moreover,
the expected improvements in the Highways Division would permit early implement-
ation of the detailed engineering of the Bus Priority Route and thus help achieve
the government's objecti.ve of shifting progressively the mode of travel from
private automobiles to nsss transport. Technical assistance to the Highways
Division and for the strengthening of the domestic construction indLustry would
enable improved performance in management, administration, planning and supervis-
ion of civil works.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AID AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between Trinidad and Tobago and the Bank, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section h (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed
loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI- RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend tlat the E&ecutive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
March 11, 1976






ALEL
V~ge   f 4 1 
T1*1 36
TRINtWlDAD AlD TOOA- SOCIAL IlICATORS DATA SHEfT
LAND AREA ITHOU X21-
-- - -- - -------               TRINIDAO AND TOBAGO               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL        5.1                                    NOST RECENT
ARABLE        ..                     I960      1970   ESTIMATE         JAMAICA       CYPRUS       U. K.
GNP PER CAPITA IUS$)                   680.0     1060.0     1310.0             690.0     1010.0     2450.0
_- ----- ___________
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           0.8        1.0        1.1               1.9        0.6       55.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                     156.0      196.0      216.0             165.0       69.0      228.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LAND
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND       39.0       25.0       29.0              34.0       23.3       16.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER T1tOUSAND       8.0        7.0        7.0               8.0        7.8       11.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)       45.0       34.0       26.0              32.0       26.0       18.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIR rH IYRS)     63.0       67.0       70.0              68.0       71.0       71.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATI               ..        2.2        2.0               2.7        1.5        1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1:1
TOTAL                                2.8        2.1        1.7               1.6        1.1        0.6
URBAN                                 ..         ..         ..               6.2        1.9        0.5
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)         18.0       12.0         ..              37.0       39.0       78.0
AGF STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      42.4       41.2       40.3              45.9       31.8       23.6
15 TO 64 YFARS                      53.5       54.8       55.8              48.5       60.6       63.4
65 YEARS AND OVER                    4.1        4.0        3.9               5.6        7.6       13.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.9        0.8        0.8               1.1        0.7        0.6
ECONOMIC nEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4        1.3        1.3 L&            1.7        0.9/       0.8
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCFPTORS (CUMULATIVE, rHOU)          ..         ..       40.t              120.9
USERS (s OF MARRIED tOM,N)            ..         ..
EMPLnYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         280.0      350.0 /a   380.0             600.0      265.0    25600.0
LABOR FORCF IN AGRICULTURE (t)        20.0       22.0       15.0              33.0       36.0        3.0 /b
UNFMPLOYEn (X OF LABOR FOPCE)           ..       12.5       14.0              14.0        1.1        3.0 7__
INCOMEF nISTRIBUTION
S OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  52 OF POPULATION             ..         ..         ..                ..       12.I/b     13.7
HIGHEST 202 OF POPULATION             ..         ..         ..                ..       39.17w     40.3
LOWEST  20S OF POPULATION             ..         ..         ..                ..        7.9Z       6.6
LOWEST  40! OF POPULATIO0                        ..         ..                ..       19.6/b     18.5
OISTRIBUlTION nF LAND OWNERSHIP
S OWNED BY TOP 102 OF OWNEItS           ..         ..
I OWNED BY SMALLEST 10 OWNIIERS        ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
PnPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2600.0 /a  2320.0     2380.0            2630.0     1280.0      820.0
POPllLATION PER NURSING PERSON       750.007b   360.0/b    200.0            1720.0 &   610.0      310.0/e
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BFC          280.0a     230.0         ..             240.0      190.0      110.0 7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        98.0       97.0       98.0             103.0       99.0      125.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             64.0       64.0       64.0              56.0       78.0       90.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..       34.0         ..              29.0 b     33.0/c     57.0
DEATH RATE l/THOUI AGES 1-4             ..        1.8         ..                ..         ..        0.7
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     112.0 L    110.0 L       ..              86.0       83.0 j    110.0
SFCONDARY SCHOOL                    22.0 j     22.0         ..              43.0       58.0       72.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            15.0       15.0       15.0              12.0       12.0,L     13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(2 OF SECONDARY)                     1.0        5.o                          9.0       12.0d       5.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE 2I3               88.0        ..        90.0              86.0       85.0       97.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)             1.6  d      ..         ..                ..         ..        0.6b
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (21                     80.0 Zjg   68.0        *-              78.0 IC
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(t OF ALL DWELLINGS)                38.0 a     66.0         .
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (21                  30.0 L       ..
CONSUMPTION
RAnIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POI I       86.0      276.0         ..             376.0      264.0      623.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU PGPI         44.0       75.0       75.0              38.0       89.0      210.0
ELECTRICITY IRWH/YR PER CAP)         560.0     1173.0     125*.0             825.0      962.0     4473.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAPI              5.8        5.5        6.9               4.3        2.7       27.7
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between. 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Esotimate between 1971
end 1973.
**The United Kingdom bee bees aelected ae an objective country si.o- it ie a high inton      o.untry where the econmic and social welfare philosophy of the
goversm-nt is oimsilar to that of Trinidad aod Tobago, parricelarly with respect to the prominent poeitrio      of the public secto.-    Is addition, the long
historical association between the two countries has resulted in a similar struc ture of political and econmic institutions.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO      1960    /0  1962;     lb  Including midwives,    /c  Coversnment maintained and aided schools only;      /d  1957-58;   /e   Inside only.
1970    /a   15-64 years;    lb  Inoloding nidwives;    Ic  1964-66;    /d  Government maintained and aided schools only;      /e  1966;
IFf Inside only.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:      Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor forc..
JAMIAICA                 1970    /a  Personnel in gave rlnmet services only;     /b, 1964-66;    Ic  Inoide only.
CYPRUS                   1970    Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to totel labor force,       /b   1966, urban households,    /c  1964-66;
7- including Turkish schools.
UNITED KINGOMIN         1970     /   Ratio of .poplation under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;       lb   1966,   /c  Registered unemployed,     Id  Nouse-
holds;    Ie  Personnel in Rovernoect services only;      If  Covernome.t hospital establishments only.
R5. March 10, 1976
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL fINDICATODNS
land Ares (thou on2)                                                                    Poputlaton,per nmraine person - Population divided by number of practi-
Total -Tota     efc     racmrsn         lend ores end inland waters.                      cio   sal  so  f   1e gradute nurses, "-trained" or' "certified"- nurses,
Arabi- Moot recent es tiunie of lend area used temporarily or permanently                 sod auxiliary personnel With training or experience.
for cultivotios, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.               Population prho     itlbd- Population divided by number of hospital
beso aible in public and w ivste general end spectalized hospital
perP cpta (T5$      -GNP per capita estimsatee at market prics, n-lc-                   and rshsbilitation oenters: excludes nuring hones end cetblish-ents
ci2W2TFonversios method as World Sank Atlas (1979-74 basis),                     for custodial and preventive crer.
Per capIte suply ofrcelories (9 of reouiremencst       Computed from
Population and vital statistics                                                           energy   quvolenT of st food suplie          _Tnabei.   cutr    e
Popuatio  (md-yr  milion  - A  ofJuly first; if not available, average          capita per day; available supplie's conprise domestic productit,,
of two endi-year estimates,                                                             imports less exports, and changes in stock; net supplies exclude
animal feed, seeds, quamtities used in food processing and looses
POoclatlon lensity - pe   scurelo - Mid-year population par square kilo-                  in distribution; requirements were estimtated by PAO based on p1ysi-
neter (100 hecto ren) of total area..                                                   ological needa for noroI activity and health consdering environ-
Pouatiom density - per square hen of arable lend - Computed as ahove for                mental temperature, body weights, age and sun distributions of pcpu-
Porable land only.                                                                       lation, and allowing 10% for waste at household level.
Per caPit   supply of proteIn (grams per day) - Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                                          caianet supply ol foo       pr day; net supply of food is defined as
Crude birth rate per thousad - Annual live births per thousand of mid-                    shove; requirements for all countries established by USnS Economic
year population; ualyfive -year avera.ges ending in 1960, 197h and                      Research Serices ProvIde for a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total
1975 for develuping coustries.                                                          protein per day, and 70 grams of animal and pulse protein, of' which 10
Crude death rate per thousand - Annual deaths per thousamd of mid-year                    grams should be anvoal protein; these standards are lower than those
poulation; usualy five-year averages ending In 1960, 1970 and 1975                     of 75 grasm of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an aver-
for developing countries,                                                               age for the world, pruposed by PAO in the Third World Pond Survey.
nfat mrtaityrat    (/thou) - Annual deaths of Infants under one year                Per capita rprtein supyfom. anma sipulse - Protein supply of food
ef age per thuand ilve births,                                                        d-erie     rm   nml?edplesi            rm    per dLay.
Life exectancy at birth    ys) - Average number of years of life remain-                Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4k - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4s
igat birth; usuall   five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 years, to children in this age group; suggested as en indicator of mal-
fnr developing countries,                                                               nutrition.
Gross reproductlion rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will
bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiencess presenit age-              Education
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  AMuster'enrollmsent ratio -    rimar  scool-  - Enrollment of all ages as
1970 and 1975 for develuping countries,                                                 percentage ofpiaysho-age population; includes children aged
Population growh rate (9        otl-Compound annual growth rates of mid-                  6-11 years but adJusted for different lengths of primary education,
year poultonfr         95-0   Y16    U7, and 1960O to mast recent year.                 for countries with universal educanion, morollment. may exceed 100%
Popu'lation g~rowthfrate (91)f-Zuban -Computed like growth rate of total                   since some pupi-ls are below or above the official school age.
pouaion; dfer       dfntos of, urban areas may affect compara-                     Adwutedenriollment, ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secosd-
bility of data among countries.                                                         ar    dcton requires at least four Years of approved primary instruc-
Urban population (9 of total) - RLatio of urban to total population;                       tion; provides general, vocational or teacher training instruction for
different definitions or urban areas may affect comparability of data                   pupils of 17 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
among countries,                                                                        excluded.
Ag c  tutr      ~rernet) - Children (0-lb years), working age (15-is years),            Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
red tire       years and over) as percentages of mid-year population,                 schooling; at secondar-y level, vocational instruction may be partially
Ace dependency -ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                   or completely excluded.
thoosE if ages 15 through 64.                                                         Vocational enroilmont. (9 of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
Ec,onomic dependency ratio -Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over                  techncl      ndsra       r other prograsm  which operate independently
to the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.                                         or as departments of secondary inatitutions.
Famil plnn         a -  cetr   cn    tive. thou) - Cumulative number of                 Adult literacY rate     )- Literate adults (able to read and write) as
accptrso      birt  contrl    evie   under auspices of mational family           ~         n    a      e        oadult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
Ilamly plannin   -users (I of maried women) - Percentages of married                    Rousing
women ofchl-bearing ag       _15h   years) who use birth-control devices              Persons per room   aversge) - Average number of persons per room in occupied
to all married women is same age group.                                                 conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
structures and unoccupied parts.
Noployment                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Occupied dwelingsawithoutapiped water ()-Occupied conventional dwell-1
foc   thousand) - Economically active persons, including                  ings in urbac   n  rual aeas without inside or outside piped water
amdforces and unmployed but exc ludLing housewives, students, etc.;                  facilities as percentage of alI occupied dwellings.
definitions in various countries are not comparable.                                  Access to electricity (9 of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
Labor force in agriculture Y) - Agricultural labor force (in farming,                   _el1e_ctricity in livin   quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban
foresitry  hunting and fishng) apecngeftotal labor force.                               arcd rural areas.,
Une~lcyd (~of  aborfwc)    cUneploye  aeuually defined as persons              Rurald dwellings connected to electricity (9) - Computed Os above for rural
who are ble and willingtoakajb,utf a job on a given day,                                dwellnsonly.
remna  ed out of a Joh, an   sekng wrfoaspacified minimous
peri'od not exceeding one week; may cot he comparable between countries               Consumption
due to different definitions of unemployed and source of data, e.g.,                  Rai    eevr        fP.to    lp   - All types of receivers for radio broad-
emnployment office statistics, sample surveys, compulsory unemployment                  casts togeniarel    blc     er thousand of population; excludes un-
insurance,                                                                              licensed receivers in countries and in years when registration of
radio sets was in effect; data for reosnt years may not he nomparable
.Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash end                     since mast countries abolished licensing.
kind) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                   Passenger cars (oar thou pop) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars seat-
40% of population.                                                                      ing less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and
military vehicles.
Distribution of land ososeship - Percentages of land owned by wealth-                   Electricity (kwh/or per cap) - Annual consumption of industrial, commer-
iest 10% and poores   10   o  lend owners.                                              cial, public and private electricity in kilowatt hours par capita;
generally based on production data, without allowance for losses in
Health and Nutrition                                                                      grids but allowing for imports and exports of electricity.
ati        -rP?           Population divided by number of practicing                 Ne::p   Ikg/ .      er.capn) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograms
p sian  uliffted fro    eia school at university level,                          etmedfo           msic production plus net imports of newsprint.



DATA                                ~~~~~~~~~Page 3 of 4 Pages
Actua.l                mated    jected                      1965 -    1970 -   19 75 -   1  0    1   5    18
NATIONAL ACCOI3SM2                        iM~z                ~    1        2                          j9       17       18         Z       i~     18
Gross Domestic Product  ~ ~ 9i7~97.4     96057!61 Prl0       I ..A. cag Rates       Average Anual Growth Rates          Ae Percent of GDY
Gains from Terms of Trade (s)      -24.7    -15.1     225.1      20         293                         2.2     3.       7._12.             12.4    .82.
Gross Domestic in.om              1W.3       W.2    i1WT8        fllz      TM                           1.5     8.1       7.5     1(0.0   100.0    100.0
Import (incl. NFS)                 349.5    .307.5    346.9      381        643                       -1.0      5.2     11.0       38.3    33.3     39.1
Exports    "(import capacity)     -286.3   -.360.6   -588.1     -524       -683                        -3.6    12.8       5.4     -37.1   -45.8    -41.6
Resource Gap                        632     *531     -41. 2     -143                                     .                 .        1.1  --.T -fI    2.4
Consumption Expenditures           702.8    0.48.9    742.5      805       1233                        4.5      5.4      8.9       79.9     70.3    75.0
Investment       (cine. stocks)    194.8    )58.2     149.1      197        370                       -3.4      3.6     13.5       21.3    17.2     22.5
Domestic Savings                   131.6    ;'11.3    390.3       340       410                        -7.9    16.8       3.8      20.1     29.7    24.9
National Savings                    79.5     149.6    315.3       260       310                        -9.3    20.5       3.6      13.2     22.7    18.9
MERCHANDISE TRADE                           Annual Pata at Current Prices                                                          As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                    139      118       161         336       .                           3.6    29.4       .        33.1     30.7
lntermlediste gooda sc(m1fuels)   67       81       118         125       .                         -2.5     22.5       .        21.0     28.0
F'uels and related materials      24       13        13           6.                                                     .        4.1      2.7
of whichc   Petrolewm           22        Li       11           3       .                                                       3.6      2.4
Cons?ti,on noods                 182       183      238         283                                   7.4    18.3       ..           8    38.7
~~oaTM~WT~~s.ts (cif)  flY    3'P       Tz                    2300                        4.8     22.1    25.2       100.0   100.0    100.0
Exports
Primary products *l. fuels)       35       .18       53          70       110                        -2.0     7.0       9.5      11.4      7.3     4.9
Petroleumi, crude
refined                        148      2?5       663        730       1250                        2.3     45.1     11.4       60.3    76.0     55.5
Manuatured goods                  89        96      145         160       890                         6.0    23.1      41.0       28.3    16.7     39.6
Toa  ac.Exports (fob)     T7T      1         ~     ~     1                                     3.8    33.6      18.6              100.010. 100
Tourism, and iorder  Tranie      35         i        63          75       170                         9.2    13.8      17.8      11.3      7.8     7.6
Merchandise Trade Indices                     Iverage 1967 -69   100
Export Price Index               119      1Thi      387         450       735                         3.6    34.3      10.3
Import Price Index               135      14.2      195         241       403                         6.3    16.6      10.9
Terms of Trade Index              88       413      198         186       182. 
VAI.UE ADDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data a19769Pices and                                  Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Exhac      ae
Agriculture                       41        %4       35          28                                   3.0     -5.8      .         4.6      2.1
Industry and Mining              452      413       506         544       .                           1.7      4.6      .        55.3     58.0
Service                          366     __I      **2           372                                   2.3      4.0               4o ..Lil  ~198
Total                            859       815      908         944      1.350                        2.2      3.6      7.4     100.0    100.0   100.0
PUBLIC PINANCE 2/                                                                                                                    As Percent of GDP
(Centra Gove-rnment)
Current Receipts                 167       175      371         396       .                           5.4     22.3      .        23.4     41.9
.Thsete     aSvings               -5        IT'     169         186       .                          49.6     66.5      .         2.2    19 .7
Other Public Sector               i.        .         .          .         ..
Central Government Investment     51       38         3         8                                     5.6     12.0     6. .0               8.6
Us $ million
CURRENT EXPENDIIJR  DETAILS                                                                DETAIL ON                     At end 1972 Prices and Exehaoge Rates
As % Total Current Expend.)                                                               PUBLIC SECTOR                                    1 of Total
Education                          18.6      17.1     13.9       13.0                     INVESThET PROGRAM 2/                 1970 175     1970 /75
Other Social Services              21.6      21.7     16.1       14.0                     Social Sectors                         97            32.1
Agriculture                         6.1       3.8      4.5        4.0                     Agriculture                            41            13.7
Other Economic Services             5.2       Z.2      6.6       10.0                     Industry and Mining                    14             4.7
Administration and Defense         23.8      2T.5     28.7       30.0                     Power                                   1             6.4
(Itctr                            -2.       3ILd      302.       26.0                     Transport and cossnunications          11             3.7
Total Current Expenditures        100.0    1004.0    100.0     100.0                      Other                                 13745-
________________________________________________________________________ TotTotalpExpendtures3302                        100.
SELECTED INDICATORS                                          1965-     1970-    1975-
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)                       1970          1985190
Average ICOR                                                 -T        -T       --
Import Elasticity                                             0.8       1.1     1.4
MPLrginal Domestic Savings Rate                              11.2      57.0    18.3
Marginal National Savings Rate                               23.2      57.3    21.3
LABOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                 VaLlue Added Per Worke(96-9         Prices,& 95cc. Rates)
OUTPUIT PER WORKER                In thgousan-da     _Lof Total           1970 - 73         In U.S.Dollars      Percn     4o verage         90-7
1.970       1973    1970       1973     Growth Rate         1970       1973        1970      1973       Growth Pate
Agriculture                      86.8      61.2     25.5      22.3         -10.1             504       555           17        21          3.3
Industry                        51.9       48.5    20.8       19.9        - 1.6            8625     9959          243        369         4.9
Service                        18IL7      214.4     53.7      57.8           6.0            1631      1670          88         62         0.8
Total                          32(1.4      ETA T    W l       MT            77              far       T7M          T5,60      T5           3.1
not applicable          n il or negligible
not available        -  less than half the
smallest unit above
1/ Excludes petroleum under petroleum processing agreement.
2/ Deflated by retail price index.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
561*1103 0F P01113'S, My NAL ASSM33ANCE AND OE8
ensto    in        Uiflime or V.S. dollars at current price.)
Actual                         Est1mated                                    rie
1971        1972        1973         1974         1975          1976        1977         1           12ce        19   so
SUMMAY bALANCE OF PAID2WTS
Exports (itcl. NFS) 1V                    358         416         567        1095          1230          1400       1580          820         2250        2690
7u3portj (incl. NF3) 1/                   430         500         502         673           910          1130       1500         1830         2210        2590
loscurce Esiacce (I--) -7r                          -3-_ 4          r       -6r           -2-20           270         bO                                   100
Interest (net)                             -1          -2          -7         -10            -9        (            -
Direct Inv-et-ent Imcc.                  -60          -67         -80        -113          -140          -165       -18          -200         -220        -250
Workers' Remittance                         *                                   ii
Current Trancfre (et)                                                          11           -15           -20        -22          -25          -28         -
BET   ei 0on C etOu   onte               -138         V7          s3          7N            U              85       -102         -235         -15i2         20
PrIvate Direct 1-oe.trect (-ct)           103          86          66           40          130            90        120           170         190         200
Official Capital Oractl                     2           1            1           -           -             -          -             -           -           -
Public M&LT Louis
Dicbcrceucntc                            19          31          37          57            37            45        110           138         180         205
-Rerayment.                              -6           -5          -9         -31          -20            -15        -18          -22         -42          -65
Net  li.bur-e.".te                                                                                                                             131 Zt  2  30 116  U840
Other M&LT Loans 2
Ea.b-rsnoct-                                                                 -35           -5           -50         -30          -20         -20         -20
Net D       i           r     b     ur           e       e       =           e _   _   -5  10  15    20     .     2
NhDieiht:                             -           -                       :fl                        -45          9W20- 
Actoal
Capital Transautio   n.c.1.                46          15          -72         -15           42                                        1971      1972      19         1974
Chacnr  in Nit Rewervee (- iocresse)      -26          29            8        -304         -340         L'BRT MID DISC S3RV7CB
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed
GRANT AND IOAN OOMM7.lMBNTS
Sfftciai Gracts & Gract-like               -          1.2           -          -                          Inter_t on Public Debt        4.6       6.4       8.4       15.3
Repayenta on Public Debt       6.7      5.3       8.8        30.8
Public MNLT loan-                                                                                        Total Public Debt Service     11.2     11.7       17.2       46.0
rlOD                                    3.0        11.3        12.0         23.0                       Other Debt Service (net)            -              -          -
IDA                                      -           -           -           -                         Totel Debt Service (ret)      11.2     11.7       17.2       46.0
Other                                               1.3          1.0         5.9
Other = cltilater,l                      _                        -          -                       Burden on BEport DErcinog  (%)
Goc rooccie                             2.0          5.4         2.3         8.7
Suppl-c                                  -            -          3.0         -                          Pub7in Debt -ervi-o           3.1       2.8      3.0         4.2
Fi-anc,.  Icetmtctino-                 10.6        23.3         32.0        36.3                       Total Debt Service             ..
bonds   o      eillDirect Threat. Lno.                                                                                               19.8     18.9      17.1        14.1
Fpiblic Loanr n.e.i.
Total Public M14T Ioar                   15.6        41.3         50.3        73.9                      Average Toems 4f Public Debt
EXTERIIAL LB                                                                      t1974TtasActusl Debt Outeta g no 31 1   Cat.  A % Prior Year D2&D  6.0  8.1  9.2       12.0
WRIdCSA B-k1                                   w   -.eeO1Prc                                               Aeot. Ac % Prior Tear 20&0     8.8      6.0      9.6         25.0
World bank o
IDA                                                -                         -                           RD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other MultlJ.tnrul                                0.6                        0.4                             as % Public Debt O&D       29 8     31.5     26 9        24.8
G_overnmets                                      31.4                       18.3                         nas      Public Debt Service   15 7     28 4      22 2        9 3
Sappier-                                          7.0                        4.1
Financial Institutiops                           82.6                       40.2
Bonds                                             9.                         5.5
Publ-c Debts n.1.i
Total Publ-c MNLT Debt                          171.3                      100.0
-nt applicable                                                  e  staff eatiete
. ot a-ai lable                                                 - oil or negligible
cit available ecp.ratbly                                        --  lees than half the
but included in total                                              eamlleet unit shown
1/ EOclude. petrolec1 ceder petrnlo-n procces.ig agre.eant.
I/ G-ocnme-o lending abroad.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BAN4K GROUP OPERATIONS IN
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
,A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(as at January 31, 1976)
US$ millions
Loan      Year         Borrower               Purpose         Amount (less cancellations)
No.                   _                                     Bank          tlndisbursed
Four  loans fully disbursed (293, 486, 497 and 601)           37.0
564       1968     Trinidad and Tobago    Education           9.l              0.6
743       1971     Trinidad and Tobago    Family Planning     3.0               2.3
81 9      1 972    Trinidad and Tobago
Development Finance
Company (guaranteed
by Trinidad and Tobago)   DFC               2.0              0.1
862       1972     Trinidad and Tobago    Education           9.3              8.9
888       1973     Caroni Ltd. (guaran-
teed by Trinidad and
Tobago)               Agriculture        12.0              4.4
1015      1974     Trinidad and Tobago
Telephone Co. (guaran-
teed by Trinidad and
Tobago)               Telecommunications  18.0            17.3
1056      1974     Trinidad and Tobago
Development Finance
Company (guaranteed
by Trinidad and Tobago)   DFC               5.0              4.4
Tbtal                                95.7            38.0
Of which has been repaid            13.8
Total now outstanding                81.9
Amount sold                 17.0
Cf which has been repaid     7.7      9.3
Tbtal now held by Bank              72.6             _
Tbtal undisbursed                                    38.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
B. Projects in Execution-
Loan 564-TR - Education- US$9.4 million Loan of October 16, 1968; Effective
Date:  March 26, 1969;  Closing Date:  June 30, 1976
Loan 862-TR - Second Education; US$9.3 million Loan of October 25, 1972;
Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation of the first education project (Ln. 564-TR) is
about two years behind schedule mainly due to problems with one contractor. The
only remaining school under construction, in Tobago, is now expected to be com-
pleted by the end of April 1976. The furnishing and equipping of all project
institutions are now expected to be completed by April 30, 1976. The closing
date has been extended by one year, to June 30, 1976, to allow the completion of
equipping of this school and closing of accounts. Initial delays in implementa-
tion of the second education project (Ln. 862-TR) have been compensated by recent
progress and the project is now almost on schedule. However, recent price increases
are particularly affecting construction costs, which are likely to cause a subs-
tantial cost overrun in total project cost.
Loan 819-TR - Development Finance Company; US$2.0 million Loan of May 15, 1972;
Effective Date:  July 3, 1972; Closing Date:   March 31, 1976
Loan 1056-TR - Second Development Finance Company Project;  US$5.0 million Loan of
December 5, 1974; Effective Date: February 7,1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Tfhe first loan is fully committed and almost completely disbursed. Due
to a delay in one of the subprojects, however, the closing date has been postponed
to March 31, 1976 to allow disbursement of approximately $58,000. The loan was
utilized for a total of 17 subprojects, two of them for tourism accounting for
less than 3% of the loan, and the rest for industry. To date, $2.0 million of
the second loan has been committed for a total of 10 subprojects. While all of
the subprojects approved so far have been for industry, one for $200,000 still
awaiting approval is for tourism. The loan is expected to be fully committed by
June 1977. The quality of TTDFC's portfolio appears to have improved with the
percentage of portfolio in arrears apparently down to about 25%, compared to over
40% as of year-end 1974.
Loan 888-Ta - Caroni Sugar; US$12.0 million Loan of April 18, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Progress on the mechanization of the company's field operations and
rehabilitation of the company's plant is proceeding as envisaged, but delays were
initially experienced in contracting the consultants required to carry out:   (a)
a hydrological/irrigation survey of North Caroni, (b) a study of all aspects of
Caroni operations, including field and factory operations, cost control and
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems which are encoun-
tered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense,
and with the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
management procedures, and (c) a study of the possibilities and implications of
subdividing the hilly company-owned lands in the South for occupation by small-
scale cane farmers. The company has suffered badly from a series of mishaps,
including exceptionally heavy rains in 1972, the worst drought in 50 years in
1973, and acute labor troubles in 1974. Whereas normal production is around
200,000 tons of sugar a year, the 1973 and 197)4 crops were in the order of 165,000
tons and further fell to 145,000 tons in 1975. The financial impact, however, has
been completely offset by the much higher sugar prices.
Loan 1015-TR - Telecommunications; US$18.0 million Loan of June 2)4, 1974;
Effedtive Date: Aug.ust 22, 197)4; Closing Date: December 31. 1977
Contracts for goods valued at about US$3.03 million (out of a total of
US$16.2 million to be contracted under the project) have been signed. Evaluation
of bids for goods estimated to cost about US$12.7 million is in progress. The
Borrower and the Bank have not yet reached agreement on the award of a contract
for certain telephone exchange and related equipment for which US$7.9 million is
allocated in the Bank loan.
Loan 743-TR - Population; US$3.0 million Loan of May 28, 1971; Effective
Date: January 31, 9~72; CIosing Date: June 30, 1976
The project is making steady progress. Construction of three health
centers is completed, ou-t of which one is already in full operation. According to
present estimates the remaining four health centers and a delivery unit will be
completed during the first half of 1976. and all other new buildings in 1977. ihe
recommendations of the management study have been approved by the Cabinet. The
Evaluation Adviser and a short-term family life education adviser have completed
their assignments and the! Nurse Training Adviser is on the job. However, a slow
increase in nunbers of family planning acceptors, a feature of most countries with
substantial declines in fertility in the past, is being observed resulting in
almost constant fertility since 1970.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJEC T
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Trinidad and Tobago
Amount:                  US$7.0 million equivalent
Terms:                   15 years, including 4 years of grace at an interest rate
of 8.5 percent per annum.
ProJect Description:     (a)  Upgrading 7.6 miles East-best Transport Corridor
and the constructing and improving about 2.6 miles
of local roads;
(b) strengthening 60 miles of paved rural roads;
(c)  consulting services for detailed engineering and
costruction supervision;
(d) technical assistance to Ministry of Works (Highways
Division) for highway planning, pavement design and
contract administration and to assist the Borrower
in strengthening the domestic construction industry.
Estimated Cost:
(US$ million)
Local         Foreign         Total
1.  Civil Works                  10.40          10.40           20.80
2. Consulting Services
(a) Supervision of
Civil lWorks           1.10            0.70           1.80
(b) Detailed engineering    1.30           0.90           2.20
3. Technical Ass:.stance          0.12           0.68            0.80
4. Contingencies::
(a) Physical.               0.50           0.50            1.00
(b) Price                   0.95           0.95            1.90
Total               14.37           14.13          28.50
Financing Plan:          Bank loan of US$7.0 million would amount to about 50% of
estimated foreign exchange cost of project; remainder of
project cost (US$21.5 million) would be provided by the
Gcrernment of Trinidad and Thbago.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Estimated Disbursement:
Year              Annual           Cumulative
(US$ million)
FY76               0.5                0.5
FY77               2.5                3.0
FY78               2.2                5.2
FY79               1.7                6.9
FY80               0.1                7.0
Procurement
Arrangements:             Contracts for the civil works in the East-West Corridor,
representing 90% of all the civil works proposed under the
project, would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding as set forth in the Bank's Gaidelines.
For bidding purposes, the works were divided into three
sections and bidders were given the option to bid for any
or all of the sections. The lowest evaluated bid appears
to have been by a foreign firm for all three sections, but
it is expected that local firms will participate as sub-
contractors.  Calls for bids for improvement   of 60 nmles
of paved rural roads would be advertised locally. Preli-
minary works and paving of specific portions, especially
in Tobago, may be carried out by force account. Selection
of consultants for detailed engineering and 120 man-months
of technical assistance would be on terns and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Rate of Return:           25% for the construction elements in the proect.
Appraisal Report:         No. 909a-TR   dated March 10, 1976



BAHAMA ISLANDS                              1                2               1
<'e   ^   J '4.5"C  CAN'  6X!^~~~~~~~~~~~~61' 0'  61- 30'  61- 20'       61l-10'         61 '00'
*  -I  A4,V',C  0CFAA!'                                                                     S
_The bound-na  hown rn rsha np dO 1001                                          o
C~,  HAITI,  PrT   riCO  LEErwW  Imply endoeemet o - accePtance by ThB Mere0                               3
*00*5      I,   World Roo n saffialec
JAMAICA  HNiL, LonchSse.se
C A i 8 8  AN  S(A                       Mooic,  'jJ 
/                   $  ;  a F [ChacochCle <ff/ g ' GF f Gt- |~~~~~~~~~(5  ST. ANDRE
,o O'I   b VeNEZUELA
RRDocachocore                                                     DA)  I D
6I  ~~~~~. ~~islands,~
TRINiDAD AND TOBAGO \sari'?kmt 
SECOND H-IGHWAY PROJECT                          \'r             al~fuai9 
- -- Ex st ng Roads to be Widened and Imnproved  C(h&ooonos  LngdltoRooCoy        5   >1-
1040   -     Rod Fnl De   signs1'A
*   Road Interchanges                      celoF'epr              S    X       ;|
EXISTINGI                               |      /         \          _                 o,s
-  Main Roads              /   '      4 l   o   a    +~        /   _    >|@   _    ' Ilador
Secondary Roads  oiSm<  -yhrr:_
-  Unpaved Roads                                 I        Too                       5, 
-  First Highway ProjectISolomon Hoch~oy)  N   olLss  >   r,    :f\
_District Boundaries                OC{plosin Boyt  d  /
-1020    ~~~Ministry of Works, District Offices   J4C_C                            clsil            raf
O     Secondairy Offices        )Pit--*re                    onrt           ;    29jsp
-+  International Airport      6     SAN FERNANDO X.    St&/be\g          <Crr               lreil
4; Parts                       ORT- \
SwampsP.br                            (                        \    N      iVA           no- 
KILOMETERS~~~~~~FO OTA 
10*5'Cd-o P   t  -  -      ~                   Sprian ST ATRIiCbompT  e \ Golo P
FUIIOPfOnd_X   27P Iol Seco                           Po = 
L  J'  Son frooclque                g                                             m  s
Cocos  RoWnd             a                                                                              _
6                6  40           61 30           61 20             6110'           61 00     0-
Road   InItIerchangesI






62030'
- AtJl-tk Om-e
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                 ,   XC4 , 
RErnN  D     H!GHAV IROD'C- ...... F,.II!I t
EAST-WEST CORRIDOR                 El., Cop                 _ .      lOCs
H" I.p~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0OFOO0CI CCCOC  iCl
,(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M -.  *
of                      r       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d&k--1i,
ST,f of   X  EpAt'^,   > t  a   A  _ _ _ -/0  _
\~~~~                     ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CwU  2  2   5  s 
6230                                            0 \T S>.F101i gS  -   -I 
O_______________________________    ___________________________                            '0



