Report No. 909a-.TR                                                      2     E       O 
Trinidad and Tobago:FIECp
Appraisal of a
Second Highway Project
March 10, 1976
Latin America and the Caribbean Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World B3ank authorizatioSn.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit             =  Trinidad and Tobago Dollar (TT$)
US.1.00                   =  TT$.2.37
rr$l.oo                   = US$0.142
TT$l million              = US$421,900
System of Weightsand Measures: British
British/US                                Metric Equivalent
1 foot (ft)                               0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)      2               =        1.609 kilometer (km)       2
1 square mile (mi                         2.589 square kilometer (km )
1 pound (lb)                     =        0.454 kilogram (kg)
1 short ton (us)                 =        0.91 metric ton
1 long ton (Imperial)            =        1.02 metric ton
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BIVIA        = British West Indies Airways
CIDA         =  Canadian International Development Agency
Lea/TRINTOPLAN = Consultants N. D. Lea and Associates Ltd., (Canada)/TRINTOPLAN
Consultants Ltd., (Trinidad)
MLG          = Ministry of Local Government
MPD          = Ministry of Planning and Development
MPU          = Ministry of Public Utilities
MIOW         = Ministry of Works
PTSC         = Public Transport Service Corporation
WISCO        = West Indies Shipping Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONC]LUSIONS ................... ....     i - ii
1,   INTRODUCTION .....................                      1
2.   BACKGROUND ..... o .................................    2
A.   General  *       ...................................    2
B.   The Transport Sector  2......................    2
C.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination        3
D.   Policy and Planning in the East-West Corridor   4
3.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ....... .......................... . .    7
A.   The Road Network .......................-.-.    7
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic         7
C.   Highway Planning and Financing .............    8
D.   Highway Administration.....................    9
E.   Highway Engineering .......................        9
F.   Highway Construction.......................    9
G.   Highway Maintenance          .................. .   10
4.   THE PROJECT  *       ...................................   10
A.   General Description          .........................  10
B.   Project Elements ..........  .................  11
C.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements .  16
D.   Execution             o  ......  *...t........  18
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ......................o.......  19
A*   General  ..o...e.............................  19
B.  Upgrading in the East-West Corridor .........      19
C.   Rural Road Strengthening Program       ............  21
D.   Detailed Engineering of Other High Priority
Sections .............................22
E.   Technical Assistance          ........................  22
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............  23
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. S. Hertel (Engineer),
P. Morris (Engineer) and D. Ngangmuta (Economist), and has been edited
by Miss V. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its conternts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
TABLES
1.   Total Road Mileage, 1965-1974
2.   Registered Motor Vehicles, 1964-1974
3.   Vehicle Fuel Consumption, 1970--1974
4.   Expenditures of National Highways, 1964-1974
5.   Road User Charges
6.   Comparison of Road User Charges and Total Expenditure on All Roads
(MOW and MLG)
7.   Design Standards for Project Roads
8.   Cost Estimate
9.   Schedule of Disbursements
10. Traffic Composition on Selected Roads in the East-West Corridor, 1974 (%)
11.  Traffic Forecast on Project an(d Related Roads
12.  Vehicle Operating Economic Costs per Mile
13.  Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
ANNEXES
1.   Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to the
Ministry of Works, Highways Division
2.   Implementation Schedule
3.   Project Indicators
CHARTS
I.   Organization of the Ministry oi. Works (MOW)
II. Organization of the Highways D:Lvision of MOW
MAPS
IBRD 11676 - Trinidad and Tobago, Second Highway Project
IBRD 11696 - Second Highway Project, East-West Corridor



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The prime traffic mode in Trinidad and Tobago is road transport.
The road network comprises 1,900 miles of national highways and 2,500 miles
of municipal and county roads. The national highway network has not been
expanded significantly over the past ten years, and pavements have not been
strengthened adequately despite rapid increases in traffic; hence, many roads
are now badly congested, and pavements are showing severe signs of distress
and failure. The only existing rail facilities are operated within sugar
estates. Inter-island transport is provided by ferry, coastal shipping, and
air services.
ii.       In 1967, consultants carried out a national transport study,
recommending improvements to, and limited expansion of, the road network,
especially in the heavily trafficked East-West Corridor (from Cocorite, near
Diego Martin, through Port-of-Spain, to Arima) and the North-South Corridor
(Port-of-Spain/San Fernando). In 1972-1974, transportation feasibility studies
were carried out to determine optimum solutions for improving traffic condi-
tions in these Corridors.
iii.      The most significant elements of the proposed project have been
developed from these feasibility studies and comprise construction of the first
part of the Government's upgrading program for the East-West Transport Corridor,
as well as the detailed engineering for upgrading other high priority highway
sections, including a Bus-Priority Route. In addition, the project envisages
strengthening of about 60 miles of paved rural roads. These 60 miles would be
selected from a survey of at least 200 miles of representative road sections
in both Trinidad and Tobago. Consulting services for the works have been in-
cluded.
iv.       The proposed project also includes technical assistance to the
Ministry of Works (MOW) Ilighways Division in highway planning and data collec-
tion, pavement design and contract document preparation and administration,
as well as technical assistance to develop the domestic construction
industry.
v.        Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOW and
would extend over a period of about three years. Approximately 90% of the
civil works would be procured through international competitive bidding in
compliance with the Bank's Guidelines; the remainder would be procured through
competitive bidding, advertised locally. Upgrading works in the East-West
Corridor would consist of three sections, and bidders were given the option to
bid for any or all of the sections. Bids are currently being examined, and it
appears that the lowest evaluated bid will be one for the complete works.
This bid was submitted by a foreign firm, but it is expected that local firms



- ii -
will participate as subcontractors. The 60 miles of strengthening works would
be grouped into suitable lots based on length and location.
vi.       Quantifiable benefits from the construction elements would derive
from savings in vehicle operating costs. On conservative assumptions, the
economic return of the construction element as a whole would be 25%.
vii.      The project is estimated to cost US$28.5 million equivalent with
a foreign exchange component of US$14.1 million. The proposed loan would
finance US$7.0 million equivalent of the foreign exchange component. The
remaining foreign exchange costs and all local currency costs would be met
by the Government; the term would be 15 years, including a four-year grace
period.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
APPRAISPL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government cf Trinidad and Tobago has requested the Bank to
assist in financing a project consisting of: (a) upgrading of about 7.6
miles of the East-West Transport Corridor, consisting of widening and improve-
ment of existing highways, and associated structures, together with about 2.6
miles of local roads providing access to those highways; (b) strengthening
of about 60 miles of paved roads; (c) consulting services for detailed
engineering and construction supervision; and (d) technical assistance to
the Ministry of W4orks (MOW) Highways Division for highway planning, pavement
design and contract administration and to the domestic construction industry
for the development of technical and managerial expertise. The total cost
of the proposed project is estimated at about US$28.5 million equivalent; the
total estimated foreign exchange component is US$14.1 million equivalent. Of
the total project, US$7.0 million would be financed by the proposed Bank loan.
The balance of US$21.5 million equivalent would be provided by the  Government.
1.02      This would be the second highway project financed by the Bank in
Trinidad and Tobago. The first (Loan 497-TR, US$8.6 million) was made in
1967 to assist in financing construction and supervision of a new 17-mile
four-lane expressway (now named the Solomon Hochoy Highway) in the North-
South Transport Corridor to improve the route between Port-of-Spain, the
capital, and San Fernando, the second largest city. Also included were con-
sulting services for feasiLbility studies and detailed engineering for related
parts of the highway system in both the East-West and North-South Corridors.
Construction of the Solomon Hochoy Highway was completed in March 1975, three
years behind the original schedule. Project execution was delayed, largely
because of the poor performance of the original consultants, who were replaced
in late 1969, as well as delays by MIOW in prequalifying contractors and award-
ing and signing contracts. Asphalt shortages during construction also contri-
buted to the delay. The l-easibility studies and detailed engineering of roads
in the East-West Corridor were eliminated in 1971, when the project was restruc-
tured to accommodate cost increases, and were taken up by a study financed by
the Canadian Internationa:L Development Agency (CIDA), which covered the entire
East-West Transport Corridor. A portion of the loan was reallocated to cover
(a) supervision of repair work for a further 2.7 miles of the Solomon Hochoy
Highway and (b) cost overruns in the highway construction due to quantity and
price escalations (23% above original appraisal estimate).
1.03      This proposed Second Highway Project originates in part from the
recommendations of the CI])A-financed study, which was carried out by a joint
venture of N. D. Lea Associates, Ltd. (Canada) and TRINTOPLAN Consultants, Ltd.
(Trinidad and Tobago). The major item of the proposed project consists of part
of the first phase work for development of the East-West Corridor, as recommend-
ed by the consultants.
1.04      The project was appraised by Messrs. S. Hertel (Engineer), P. Morris
(Engineer), and D. Ngangmuta (Economist) in April 1975. The report has been
edited by Miss V. Foster.



2. BACKGROUND
A.   General
2.01      Trinidad and Tobago, off the northeast coast of South America, have
a combined area of 2,000 square miles. The population, which was 1.1 million
in 1974, grew by 1.5% p.a. between 1970 and 1974. About 250,000 inhabitants
are living in greater Port-of-Spain, the capital, which is also the administra-
tive, banking, manufacturing and commercial center, as well as the primary
general cargo port of the country. A further 150,000 inhabitants are living
in adjacent towns east and west of the capital (the "East-West Corridor",
para. 2.11).
2.02      The economy, to a large extent, is based on petroleum production
and refining, which, in 1974, represented 42% of GDP and accounted for about
two-thirds of merchandise exports. Other important sectors of the economy
are (a) transport, distribution and communications and (b) manufacturing,
wihich together accounted for 20% of GDP in the same year. Agriculture
contributes only 4.7% of GDP, but employs 25% of the labor force. Unemploy-
ment, about 13% of the labor force, remains a major economic and social
problem.
B.  The Transport Sector
(i) General
2.03      Trinidad and Tobago are bot:h almost entirely dependent on road
transportation for internal movement of people and goods. The inter-island
link is provided by ferry, coastal shipping and domestic air transport
services. The only existing rail facilities are operated within sugar
estates. Bank Group involvement in t:he transport sector has been limited
to one operation -- the (First) Highwfay Project (para. 1.02). Apart from a
CIDA-financed feasibility study of the East-West Corridor (para. 2.11),
Trinidad and Tobago has not received any major foreign assistance in the
transport sector.
(ii)  Highways and Highway Transport
2.04      The highway system and its administration are described in detail
in Chapter 3.
(iii) Ports
2.05           The Port Authority of Trinidad and Tobago is the statutory body
charged with planning, providing and regulating all public ports in the
country. The bulk of Trinidad's seaborne commerce -- 42.3 million tons in
1972 -- moves through the island's seven private ports.  Bauxite from Guyana
and Surinam is transshipped at Tembladora and Chaguaramas, raw sugar and
chemicals are handled at Point Lisas, cement is loaded at Claxton Bay, asphalt



- 3 -
is handled at Brighton and crude oil products are loaded at Pointe-a-Pierre
and Point Fortin. Port-of-Spain is Trinidad's principal general cargo port
(1.04 million tons in 1973), but it also has facilities for bulk handling
of grains and molasses, and for international and inter-island passenger and
cargo transport. A small port at Scarborough serves the island of Tobago.
2.06      Regional inter-island services are provided by small vessels and
by local shipping lines, including the West Indies Shipping Corporation
(WISCO), which was formed following the 1961 Act establishing Federal shipping
services for the West Indies. It is jointly owned by the Governments of
Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados, Dominica, St. Lucia, St. Kitts,
St. Vincent, Grenada, Montserrat, Antigua and Guyana. The Corporation recently
acquired one container vessel and is in the process of acquiring another con-
tainer and two mixed cargo vessels to enable it to compete effectively with
foreign shipping lines.
(iv) Air Transport
2.07      Trinidad has one international airport, Piarco, located about
10 miles east of Port-of-Spain. The airport is served by several international
airlines. Internal air service between Trinidad and Tobago is provided by
a local airline, Trinidad and Tobago Air Services (Government-owned). British
West Indies Airways (BWIA), the Government-owned national airline, operates
services to London, Toronto, New York, Miami and Georgetown.
2.08      Airport revenues have, over the last five years, exceeded expendi-
tures by a yearly average of TT$ 1.5 million. A Parliamentary Committee
has recommended the creation of an autonomous Airports Authority. The Govern-
ment proposes to construct new passenger and cargo terminal buildings at
Piarco, extend the present runway from 9,500 feet to 11,000 feet, provide
a taxiway and a 200-mile range radar, and establish an industrial park on
the airport periphery.
C.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
2.09      Although overall authority for national development policy,
planning and inter-sectoral coordination is vested in the Ministry of Planning
and Development (MPD), sectoral planning is carried out, somewhat ineffectively,
by small planning offices in each ministry. Transport planning is carried
out in MIOW, the Ministry of Public Utilities (NPU) and the Ministry of Local
Government (MLG). The MOW Highways Division is responsible for the planning
of national roads. The MPU is indirectly involved in transport planning
through its jurisdiction over the Ports Authority and the Division of Civil
Aviation (DCA); MLG, through its six county councils and three municipalities,
is responsible for all county roads and city streets. The Trinidad Transport
Board, made up of individuals from the Government and the private sector,
advises the Minister of Works on traffic control, weights, vehicle registra-
tion and transport rates and duties.



- 4 -
2.10      A national transport study carried out for the Government in 1967
by consultants (C. C. Parker and Parsons, Brinckerhoff Ltd., Canada) concluded
that improvement of the national highway system was the most urgent transport
need. Implementation of the study's recommendations is lagging far behind
schedule as a result of competing claims on inadequate resources and a lack
of manpower being devoted to the transport sector.
D.   Policy and Planning in the East-West Corridor
2.11      The "East-West Corridor" -- the most densely populated area of
Trinidad -- extends from Cocorite (near Diego Martin), five miles west of
Port-of-Spain, through the capital itself, to Arima, about 16 miles to the
east. About 400,000 people (40% of the total population of Trinidad and
Tobago) live in the corridor.
2.12      There has been diffusion of activity in the Corridor for some years,
e.g., there is considerable industrial development at Arima. MPD has studied
the rational development of the area and, in February 1975, published, in draft,
its report "Planning for Development: The Capital Region" 1/. The major pro-
posals of the report include:
(a)  national development through growth poles, with the Capital
Region as one such pole;
(b)  a policy of dispersed economnic activity within the Capital
Region;
(c)  a land use policy based on industrial location, new resi-
dential and agricultural areas; and
(d)  urgent formulation and impleamentation of measures to
ameliorate existing, and to anticipate future, infrastructural
deficiencies -- including those relating to transport -- in
the Corridor and, specificaLly, in Port-of-Spain.
The Government is already committed to the idea of development through growth
poles, and most of the proposals in the draft report are already being imple-
mented by the responsible agencies, e.g., new sites have been identified in
the suburbs for relocation of some ministries and industries from Port-of-Spain,
and other projects for water supply, irrigation, agriculture and forestry are
being executed.
2.13      The Government has been aware of the transportation problem in the
Corridor for some years. Specifically, in 1972, with assistance from CIDA,
it commissioned consultants (Lea (Canada)/TRINTOPLAN (Trinidad)) to carry out,
for the period 1975-1995, planning and feasibility studies and preliminary
design for road improvements in the Corridor. The study was completed in
May 1974; the consultants' recommendat:ions are discussed in paragraph 2.15.
1/   The Capital Region covers about 200 square miles, extending from the
northern range watershed to the ALrima and Guanapo rivers on the east and
the Caroni river on the south.



2.14      In the course ofi the Lea/TRINTOPLAW  Study, it became obvious that
public transport could play a major role in the Corridor. The Government
therefore widened the scope of the consultants' work to include recommenda-
tions on the design, implementation, operation and management of a priority
transit system. This addiitional work was completed in September 1974.
2.15      The main study (para. 2.13) recommended a three phase program,
with emphasis on a shift from private to public transportation (hence the
priority transit system study was undertaken). The consultants provided
details of the first phase only since they considered that later phases would
largely depend on developments after the first phase was completed. Recom-
mendations for the first phase were designed to tackle the most obvious and
urgent constraints in the Corridor and included the following (Map IBRD 11696):
(a) construction of the Mucurapo Foreshore Highway (this is part
of the Corridor to the west of Port-of-Spain) and of appro-
priate connections to the existing road system;
(b) widening of the Beetham and Churchill-Roosevelt Highways
as far east as the Southern Main Road;
(c) duplication of the Market Interchange and widening of
the adjacent St. Joseph Road to Independence Square;
(d) construction of a new road linking Eastern Main Road
with Princess Margaret Highway;
(e)  construction of a bus-priority route, initially
from Port-of-Spain eastward to Arouca (12 miles),
including new depots and a downtown terminal;
(f)  specifically, with regard to the Central Business
District (CBD) of Port-of-Spain:
--   development and enforcement of parking regulations
--   charging for street parking at a level which would
reflect the cost to the community
--   improved traffic regulation and control, including
signs, channelizations, provision of one-way
streets, and signals
--   improved enforcement of traffic regulations and
--   provision of off-street parking areas.
2.16      The consultants' recommendations, stemming from the expanded
study (para. 2.14), dealt mLainly with a "Bus-Priority Route" using the right-
of-way of an abandoned railway, and made recommendations on the design of
the route and terminals, thLe type and number of buses, the maintenance facil-
ities, and the organizational structure for a "Priority Route Authority".



- 6 -
2.17      Government action to date on the recommendations of both studies
can be considered under two headings:  urgent physical improvements and
institutional improvements.  Regarding urgent physical improvements, the
Government has:
(a) begun widening a section of the Churchill-Roosevelt
Highway between Aranguez and Princess Margaret Highway;
(b) completed final design to connect Piccadilly Street and its link
to St. Joseph Road, in Port-of-Spain, which is a necessary
complement to some of the works proposed under the project;
(c) programmed all other road improvements (including construction
of the first 12 miles of the Bus-Priority Route) recommended
by the consultants in Phase I (para. 2.15), to be completed
by 1980 (at an average annual expenditure of about US$8 million
during the five-year period); and
(d)  increased the number of transit buses from about 170 in
1974 to 320 by the end of 1975 and has ordered a further
430 to be in operation by the end of 1976.
Regarding institutional improvements, the Government is actively studying:
(e)  the creation of a permanent traffic management agency which
would deal with all urban transport problems,beginning with
traffic in the CBD of Port--of-Spain; and
(f)  the recommendations relating to the establishment of a transit
authority.
2.18      The major components of the proposed project (upgrading of the
Beetham and Churchill-Roosevelt Highways and associated improvements, and
detailed engineering for the .I'ucurapo Foreshore Highway, the Princess Margaret
Highway and the Bus-Priority Route) xwould help materially to implement vital
transport improvements in the Corridor. However, these improvements in them-
selves would not be sufficient to so:.ve the long-term problems of the Corridor,
and it is crucial that complementary action, specifically development of the
Bus-Priority Route, commence without delay. Detailed engineering for the
Bus--Priority Route is included in the Project. During negotiations, an assur-
ance was obtained from the Government: that a timetable for the construction
and operation of the Bus-Priority Route would be furnished to the Bank by
December 31, 1977.



-7-
3. THE HIIGHW4AY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Road Network
3.01      Trinidad and Tobago has a road network of about 4,400 miles 1/:
1,900 miles are national highways under the jurisdiction of MOW, and the
remainder are under MLG. Over 90% of the national highways are paved;
however, many of them are paved only with the naturally occurring Trinidad
Lake asphalt, which does not have the internal mechanical strength to cope
with modern wheel loadings. As can be seen from Table 1, neither the total
mileage nor the paved mileage of the national highways has grown signifi-
cantly over the last ten years; on the contrary, considerable pavement deterio-
ration has taken place during that period.
3.02      There are two major transport corridors in Trinidad, the East-West
Corridor (para. 2.11) and the North-South Corridor, which joins the East-
West Corridor six miles east of Port-of-Spain, and extends south to San
Fernando and beyond to the developing petroleum industry zones in the southwest
of the island. Additionally, a cross-island route from San Fernando to the
southeast of Trinidad, Naparima-Mayaro Road, is becoming increasingly important
due to petroleum exploration and production off the east coast (Map IBRD 11676).
B.  Characteristics and C,rowth of Road Traffic
3.03      The number of motor vehicles increased on average by 5.3% p.a.
during the past decade, from about 67,000 in 1964 to 112,000 in 1974
(Table 2). Some 71% (79,000) of the vehicles are private cars; 9% (9,300)
are taxis and hire cars; aLnd 20% (23,000) are buses, trucks and tractors.
The rate of growth of motor vehicles is decreasing and, in recent years,
has been below 5% p.a.  Vehicle density is about 100 vehicles per 1,000
inhabitants.
3.04      The public bus company, Public Transport Service Corporation (PTSC),
is increasing its operational bus fleet (para. 2.17). The Government recently
approved a request by PTSC for an additional 430 units to provide a minimum
essential bus service throughout the country by 1977. PTSC plans to provide
an adequate level of countrywide service by 1980.
3.05      Road traffic data are not collected systematically, and the last
countrywide survey was carried out in 1967 as part of the preparation for
the National Transportation Plan. Traffic counts in 1973 and 1974, specifically
for the East-West Corridor study, indicated an average daily traffic in the
range of 22,000 to 27,000 vpd on the two-lane Churchill-Roosevelt Highway as
far as Southern Main Road, and 37,000 vpd on the four-lane Beetham Highway.
The Western MIain Road and the Eastern Main Road carry up to 50,000 and 40,000
1/   This corresponds to 2.6 miles of road per square mile or 4.5 miles of
road per 1,000 inhabiitants.



- 8 -
vpd, respectively. In the North-South Corridor and on the Princess Margaret
Highway and the Solomon-Hochoy Highway, traffic ranges between 13,000 and
18,000 vpd, and, on the cross-island road between San Fernando and the east
coast, from 8,600 to 3,000 vpd. Traffic congestion is now severe along all
the East-West Corridor roads and on the Princess Margaret Highway. Average
annual traffic growth on the above roads since 1966 has ranged from 5% to 10%.
Traffic growth in other parts of Trinidad must have been considerably lower
since records of vehicle fuel consumption (Table 3) show that, in the period
1970 to 1974, the annual consumption of gasoline and diesel oil increased by
only 5% and 2%, respectively.
C.   Highway Planning and Financing
3.06      Highway investment programs are prepared by MOW, but MPD exercises
overall control of Government investment (para. 2.09).   The highway program
forl975-1980 includes only investments in the East-West and North-South
Transport Corridors. 1/ However, MOW realizes that road investments are needed
in other areas of the country, especially the extension south of the Solomon
Hochoy Highway and the cross-island route to the southeast. As part of a
CIDA-financed Road Maintenance and Administration Study, scheduled to commence
late 1976, the 1967 National Transportation Plan (para. 2.10) will be updated,
and MOW intends to revise its investment program accordingly. The planning
capability of the Highways Division of MOW, although gradually improving,
is grossly inadequate to carry out the program envisaged for the next decade,
and technical assistance to help in this area has therefore been provided
under the proposed project.
3.07      National highway expenditures, including construction, maintenance,
equipment, studies and engineering, and administration, increased from a
yearly average of TT$ 10 million in 1964-1968 to TT$ 20 million in 1970-1974.
The highway expenditure forecast (in 1975 prices) shows a moderate increase
in 1976-1980 to a yearly average of about TT$ 28 million (Table 4) 2/.
3.08      Highway expenditures are financed from the Government's general
budget since there is no earmarking of specific taxes. Between 1967 and
1973, road user charges more than covered total road expenditures. For 1974,
it is estimated that the road user charges covered about 90% of the total
expenditures, as a result of temporary measures taken by the Government to
fight the economic recession by maintaining a constant retail price of gasoline
through a reduction in sales tax (Tables 5 and 6).
1/   Pavement strengthening of other roads, commenced in 1974, is not consid-
ered by the Government as investment, but rather as maintenance (para.
3.13).
2/   The figures may be revised upward later as a result of the updating of
the 1967 Transportation Plan (para. 3.06).



- 9-
D.  Highway Administration
3.09     14OW, through its Highways Division (Organizational Charts I and
II), is responsible for planning, construction and maintenance of national
highways. The Highways Division is organized on recommendations made by
the consultants Mead Carney and Company Ltd. (UK) in 1964. The Division
has three branches dealing with bridges, road planning and road construction.
The bridges branch is responsible for regular inspection of bridges and
culverts, their maintenance and repairs, and supervision of bridge contracts.
The road planning branch is responsible for preparing plans for road works,
supervising road contracts, and maintaining the road inventory. The road
construction branch is responsible for maintaining national highways as
authorized by the road planming branch. In addition, a temporary unit for
highway projects was set up in 1974 to coordinate studies and engineering
carried out by consultants. Plant and equipment are provided and maintained
by an equipment branch of the Construction Services Division of MOW. Most
of the equipment in service is over five years old; nevertheless, the propor-
tion under repair at any one time does not seem excessive. Equipment required
solely for roadworks is permanently allocated to the Highways Division.
3.10      The Highways Division has 18 posts for engineers.  Until recently,
there were six vacancies, but these have now been filled through recruitment
of graduates from the University of the West Indies, Trinidad. Additional
posts are being created to meet counterpart requirements for the proj-
ect. The senior engineers are fairly experienced and capable, and the organi-
zation has become more effLcient in the past few years.  However, insufficient
attention is being given to: (a) collection, monitoring and analysis of road
and traffic data; (b) coordination of, and participation in, consultants' work;
(c) contract administration, including field supervision of contractors' work;
(d) planning of investments; (e) design and execution of upgrading and strength-
ening of existing roads; and (f) soils and materials testing. The technical
assistance included in the project would help to improve performance in these
areas.
E.   Highway Engineering
3.11      The Highways Division is responsible for all engineering aspects
(survey, site and laboratory investigation, feasibility studies, detailed
design and construction supervision) of national highway projects, and also
provides technical assistance, where required, for road projects not under
the jurisdiction of MOW. Design standards for new highways generally con-
form with modern principles and are appropriate. Studies and engineering of
major projects have been carried out by foreign consultants in generally joint
venture with local consultants, usually TRINTOPLAN, which is partly Government-
owned. The Government intends to give local consultants increasing participation
in future engineering projects, with expatriate input being limited to specific
fields in which the local capability or capacity is insufficient.
F.   Highway Construction
3.12      All major road construction is performed by contract; the Highways
Division force account work is limited to culverts, small bridges, some



- 1cI -
asphaltic work and minor improvements to road alignments. The major new
construction in the past ten years has been the 17-mile Solomon Hochoy
Highway, the four-lane expressway constructed under the Bank-financed (First)
Highway Project (Loan 497-TR). It was built by a foreign contractor with -
one of the larger local firms as subcontractor. Foreign consultants (Frederic
R. Harris, Inc. (US)), appointed after the unsatisfactory experience with the
original consultants (para. 1.02), supervised the construction. Local con-
tractors were engaged in asphaltic concrete overlay work and some minor road-
works and structures, but the industry, in general, is small and inexperienced.
Technical assistance to help this domestic construction industry is included
in the proposed project.
G.   Highway Maintenance
3.13      Maintenance of the national roads is performed by the roads
construction branch of the Highways Division (Chart II). Routine and periodic
maintenance is carried out from eight district offices. Until 1974,_road main-
tenance tended to be neglected and, under increasing traffic and axle loads,
pavements deteriorated. In 1974, MOW embarked on a resurfacing program --
some 107 miles of roads were overlayed in that year, 130 miles in 1975 and
a similar mileage is expected to be treated in 1976. However, design of
overlay does not appear to have received sufficient attention. The proposed
project (para. 4.01) would assist in two ways:
(a) by providing technical assistance to help plan, design and
supervise resurfacing works more rationally than before,
i.e., by the use of pavement deflection techniques; and
(b) by helping to finance some 60 miles of resurfacing on rural
roads.
3.14      Bridge and culvert maintenance and reconstruction are executed
by the bridges branch of the Highways Division. Eight squads are presently
employed, and an average of 15 structures has been replaced annually since
1973. This output is being increased since bridge load restrictions are
still applicable on many roads, necessitating an uneconomical diversion
of traffic. The CIDA-financed Road Maintenance and Administration Study
(para. 3.06) is to cover the requirements for rehabilitation of bridges and
culverts.
4. THE ]PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The project would consist of:
(a) upgrading of about 7.6 miles of main highways in the East-West
Corridor, provision of two grade-separated interchanges and
construction and improvement: of about 2.6 miles of local roads;



- 11 -
(b) strengthening of about 60 miles of paved rural roads;
(c) supervision of items (a) and (b);
(d) detailed engineering of (a) above and of other high
priority projects;
(e) technical assistance, including training:
-    to MOW for planning, design, and execution of new
road projects and for rehabilitation and strengthening
of existing roads; and
-    to help develop the domestic construction industry.
The project would address, primarily, the transportation problems in the
East-West Corridor by (a) helping to finance the most urgently retquired works
and (b) helping to prepare the next stage of development of the transportation
system in the Corridors. It would also address the problems of rural roads
in Trinidad and Tobago, and, institutionally, it would concentrate on two
key areas - the Highways Division of MOW and the domestic construction industry
- by providing training at managerial and specialist levels.
B.   Project Elements
(i) Civil Works
Upgrading in the East-West Corridor
4.02      The East-West Corridor (para. 2.11) is now severely congested
throughout most of the day, particularly in the western approach to Port-
of-Spain from Cocorite, near Diego Martin, and in the six miles immediately
east of the city.  The main Corridor roads to the east of Port-of-Spain are:
(a) the Eastern MaLin Road: a two-lane road starting in Port-
of-Spain, passing through the closely linked towns of San Juan,
St. Joseph, Tunapuna, Tacarigua, Arouca and Arima. Traffic
varies from 22,000 to 40,000 vpd;
(b)  the Beetham Highway (south of, and almost parallel to, the
Eastern Main Road), a 2.5-mile four-lane divided highway,
with inadequate shoulders and undulating pavement, carrying
about 37,000 vpd 1/;
1/   The Beetham Highway iLs constructed at the edge of the Laventille swamp,
where very soft alluvrial clay layers occur to a depth of about 20 feet.



- 12 -
(c) the Churchill-Roosevelt Highway, a 16-mile two-lane rural
highway, located between one and two miles south of the
Eastern Main Road, beginning at the Barataria roundabout.
Between the roundabout and the Princess Margaret Highway,
traffic averages 25,000 vpd, and between the Princess
Margaret Highway and the Southern Main Road, 22,000 vpd.
On the Beetham and Churchill-Roosevelt Highways, average peak and off-peak
speeds 1/ are 15 and 25 mph, respectively. Average speeds are even lower
on t'he Eastern Main Road.
4.03      Three basically different schemes were studied in the East-West
Corridor Study (para. 2.13). Schemes I and II assumed the the proportion
of piassenger trips between private cars, taxis and buses would continue as
at present. Scheme I proposed a staged expressway and freeway system to
accommodate projected traffic, while Scheme II relied to a greater extent
than Scheme I on arterial roads. Schime III was based on a strategy to move
passenger trips from automobiles to buses and public transport; this was
to be accomplished through a significant improvement in the level of service
for bus passengers (a) by providing a two-lane Bus-Priority Route between
Port-of-Spain and Arima and (b) by improving the reliability and frequency
of the bus services.  The Government agreed, in principle, to Scheme III, and
detailed feasibility studies were carried out for the Scheme III, Phase I,
construction program (1976-1980). The recommendations from these studies were
approved by the Government in September 1975, and the first 12 miles of the
Bus-Priority Route to Arouca were inc:'uded in the five-year construction
program.
4.04      The upgrading works in the East-West Corridor included in the
project comprise part of the Phase I works for Scheme III (para. 4.03) as
follows:
(a)  widening of St. Joseph Road (1/4 mile) in Port-of-Spain;
this would improve access to downtown Independence
Square. A necessary element: for improving traffic distribution
within Port-of-Spain is the opening of a link between Piccadilly
Street and St. Joseph Road before completion of the St. Joseph
Road widening. During negotiations, an assurance to this effect
was obtained from the GoverrLment, and agreement was reached on the
design standards to be adopted.
(b)  construction of the Market Interchange (3/4 mile of ramps
and flyover between St. Joseph Road and Beetham Highway
to double the existing flyover capacity) and construction,
below the interchange, of connections between the Eastern
Main Road and St. Joseph Road and South Quay (about 0.6 mile );
1/   "Peak" signifies, here and elsewhere in this report, an average congested
condition extending over about six hours a day; about 44% of the daily
traffic passes in this period.



- 13 -
(c) improvement of Beetham Highway (1-3/4 miles) by provision
of shoulders, localized widening and asphaltic overlay;
(d) construction of Barataria Interchange (1/2 mile of
ramps and flyovers to link Beetham and Churchill-Roosevelt
Highways and to provide improved access to the Eastern Main
Road and Lady Young Road);
(e)  widening from two to four lanes, and improvement, of the
Churchill-Roosevelt Highway over a distance of 2-1/2 miles
up to Aranguez road;
(f) similar widening of the Churchill-Roosevelt Highway over
the 1-1/4 miles between the Princess Margaret Highway
and the Southern Main Road; and
(g) construction and improvement of about two miles of local
paved roads and about 0.6 mile of gravel agricultural tracks
in the East-West Corridor.
4.05      In total, (a) through (f) above comprise about 7.6 miles of highway
improvement. 1/ Design standards are indicated in Table 7. The work would
include embankment construction (including preloading where necessary to
accelerate settlement of the compressible soils in the Laventille Swamp), two
footbridges, four bridges and two grade-separated interchanges, and paving
of some short lengths of service roads. The two interchanges are complex,
and their superstructures have been designed to permit bidding, at the
bidders' option, in either steel or prestressed concrete. Normal equipment/
labor mix is appropriate for the work, and the construction is expected to
provide employment for up to 1,000 skilled and unskilled workers.
4.06      The project would have a beneficial impact on the environment due
to a reduction of stops and starts of vehicles and a consequent reduction
of exhaust fumes. The dense population along the Eastern Main Road would also
benefit considerably from a diversion of traffic to the Beetham/Churchill-
Roosevelt system.
4.07      Although the Beeltham/Churchill-Roosevelt system primarily serves
traffic between the south and east of the island and Port-of-Spain, improved
driving conditions on the road sections included in the project are likely to
lead to a diversion of traffic away from the heavily congested Eastern Main
Road, which now carries up to 40,000 vpd, including 95% of the transit buses
and 60% of the taxis. In the short run, therefore, a better distribution
of traffic between the two road systems is likely to result, and public
transport vehicles which uise the Eastern Main Road would be able to operate
under less congested conditions than at present. At the same time, the upgrad-
ing of the Beetham/ChurchiLl-Roosevelt system may result in an increase of
1/   The one-mile section Df the Churchill-Roosevelt Highway between Aranguez
Road and Princess Margaret Highway is already being upgraded to four lanes,
by the Government, to provide an intermediate solution for easing of con-
gestion during peak hours prior to completion of the proposed project roads.



- 14i -
private car commuting. It is common in Trinidad and Tobago that private
automobiles are used as collective cabs. Nevertheless, measures to discourage
the use of the private automobile in the Port-of-Spain area are warranted.
An indication of such measures is given in paragraph 2.15(f). These measures
require further study, both to define them in detail and to determine the
appropriate timing for their implementation. The consultants who carried out
the study for improvements in the East-West Corridor concluded that implemen-
tation of the measures for traffic regulations, as outlined in paragraph 2.15(f)
above, should be staged to the development of the highway and bus transit
system.
4.08      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government on
the following:
(a) that it is committed in principle to implementing the measures
outlined in paragraph 2.15(f) in the CBD of Port-of-Spain; and
(b) that the institutional machinery needed to implement such
measures would be operational not later than June 30, 1976.
An agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government would estab-
lish an agency responsible for the formulation and implementation of a con-
tinuing traffic management system with the objective of ensuring economic use
of existing transport resources and of facilitating the development of public
transport services. Outline terms of reference of the activities of the agency
were discussed during negotiations.
4.09      An assurance was obtained from the Government that it would consult
with the Bank, not later than January 31, 1977, on a timetable for implementing
the measures outlined in paragraph 2.15(f), taking into account the recommen-
dations of the agency referred to in paragraph 4.08.
Strengthening of Paved Rural Roads
4.10      The project includes strengthening of about 60 miles of rural
roads; the work envisaged comprises improvement of drainage, correction of
localized failures and, generally, an asphaltic overlay or reseal. Minor
alignment modifications would be made to improve road safety. The work should
be suitable for developing labor-intensive methods of working.  The road
sections to be strengthened would be selected, in agreement with the Bank,
from the 200 miles of representative rural roads (para. 4.12) and would
represent a wide range of conditions to maximize the experience that the
Government and local contractors should derive from this work.
(ii) Detailed Engineering
4.11      The detailed engineering included in the project relates to four
construction packages:
(a) upgrading works in the East-West Corridor included in the
proposed project (paras. 4.04 and 4.05);



- 15 -
(b) the Bus-Priority Route to Arouca (12 miles) (para. 4.03) using the
right-of-way of the railway, which formerly ran between
Port-of-Spain and Arima;
(c) the Mucurapo Foreshore Highway (two miles), part of the
East-West Corridor west of Port-of-Spain, with connections
to Wrightson Road and Ariapita Avenue;
(d) Princess Margaret Highway (8 miles). The Princess
Margaret Highway will eventually be widened from the
present two lanes to a four lane highway, to connect
the Solomon Ilochoy Highway with the Churchill-Roosevelt
Highway. The feasibility study was carried out as part
of the (First) Highway Project, and the construction
envisaged would complete a four-lane highway (32 miles)
between Port-of-Spain and the island's second largest
town, San Fernando.
(iii) Technical Assistance
4.12      Technical assistance would be provided under the project and would
be directed at (i) MOW and (ii) the domestic construction industry. Assistance
to MOW would be designed to help it to:
(a) overcome deficiencies in highway planning;
(b) establish and imtplement procedures for collection
and analysis of data relating to the road system
and its traffic;
(c)  survey, using modern techniques, about 200 miles
of representative rural road sections in need of
improvement;
(d) carry out axle load survey, pavement deflection
measurements ancl pavement design of these 200 miles; and
(e) (from these 200 miles) develop a two-year program of
road improvement: and select about 60 miles to be
strengthened uncder the project (para. 4.10), prepare
bidding documents and supervise the work.
The technical assistance would be, in effect, on-the-job training for MOW
engineers and technicians. An outline of the terms of reference for this
assistance is given in Amnex 1. The selection of about 200 miles of repre-
sentative rural road sect:Lons in need of improvement was agreed during
negotiations.
4.13      Lack of continuLty of large civil works in Trinidad has meant that
foreign contractors have dominated the market because, through working in
a number of countries, they have been able to absorb relatively easily a
fluctuating workload in any one of them. Local contractors have therefore
been confined to relativeLy small scale works such as asphaltic work, construc-
tion of culverts and small bridges and have become relatively efficient in



- 16 -
this limited work. Technical assistance would be provided under the project
to assist development of the industry. An ongoing study of the construction
industry, directed by a committee responsible to the Prime Minister, is due
for completion in early 1977. Areas where technical assistance would be
beneficial would be identified by the study. Basically, the technical assist-
ance would focus on (a) the industry itself and (b) Government departments,
notably MOW, to identify how such departments may assist the industry signi-
ficantly, e.g., by improving the legal framework of Government contracts and
the procedure for paying contractors, and by maintaining a steady and predict-
able workload for the industry. The assistance could also examine the capital
needs of the industry and how they might be met. Terms of reference for this
assistance would be agreed with the Government when the results of the ongoing
study are available.
C.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements
4.14      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$28.5
million equivalent, 1/ with a foreign component of US$14.1 million equivalent.
A summary of costs is as follows (details are given in Table 8):
Foreign     Bank
Exchange Partici-
TT$ Million            US$ Million       Component   pation
Local Foreign Total   Local  Foreign Total        %      US$   %
I.   Civil Works 1/  25.83  24.65  50.48   10.40   10.40  20.80    49           4.5  22
II. Consulting Services
(a)  Supervision
of civil
works        2.60   1.70   4.30    1.10    0.70   1.80    40         0.7  40
(b)  Detailed
Engineering 3.10   2.10   5.20    1.30    0.90   2.20    40          0.9  40
III. Technical
Assistance        0.30   1.60   1.90    0.12    0.68   0.80    80          0.3  40
IV. Contingencies
(a)  Physical
(5% of I)   1.20   1.20   2.40    0.50    0.50   1.00    50          0.2  20
(b)  Provision
for future
price in-
creases (7%
of I, II &
III)        2.25   2.25   4.50    0.95    0.95   1.90    50          0.4  21
35.28  33.50  68,78   14.37   14.13  28.50    50          7.0  25
1/lExcludes cost of right-of-way, estimated at US$0.5 million.



- 17 -
4.15      Estimates for highiway upgrading in the East-West Corridor have been
based on detailed engineering prepared by the consultants Lea/TRINTOPLAN and
the results of the bidding (February 1976). The average construction cost in
the Corridor is US$1.6 mill:ion per mile of four-lane road, excluding two
grade-separated interchanges, supervision, contingencies and land acquisition;
including these, the cost is estimated at US$3.0 million per mile of four-lane
road. This is relatively expensive, but must be considered in the light of
(a) the heavy pavements needed for the traffic; (b) the ten intersections with
traffic lights and two foot bridges; (c) poor soil conditions; (d) numerous
creeks to be crossed; and (e) the two interchanges.
4.16      Estimates for strengthening of about 60 miles of rural roads have
been based on the assumption that these works would be carried out by local
contractors and that the strengthening would normally consist of an asphaltic
overlay of an average thickness of two inches 1/ together with necessary
ancillary work such as improvement of drainage. The estimated unit cost,
US$35,000 per mile, reflects the current experience with local contractors
performing similar work.
4.17      Supervision costs are predicated on a joint venture of foreign
and local consultants, with M4OW assistance. The consultants' services
have been estimated at about 14 man-years for professional engineers, at
an average cost of US$45,000 per man-year. The estimate for supervision
amounts to about 10% of construction costs. The cost of detailed engineering
and technical assistance to MOW is based on consultants' cost of US$50,000
per professional man-year. The estimate for the technical assistance to
develop the domestic construction industry has been based on the assumption
that this assistance would be provided by individual foreign consultants
estimated to cost US$45,000 per man-year, for about 20 man-months.
4.18      A contingency al]Lowance of about 5% of construction costs has been
included to allow for increases in quantities; this is considered adequate
in view of the detailed engineering carried out, particularly considering that.
for much of the work (e.g., structures and paving), quantities can be estimated
with confidence. Provision for future price increases has been calculated
separately for all items and amounts to about 7% of the total base costs
(Table 8). This figure is lower than normal, since the conditions of con-
tract limit price adjustment to selected materials, and then only after the
first year of the contract period. Price adjustment for variations in labor,
equipment, etc. are not permitted under the conditions of contract; hence,
the contractor's allowance for such adjustments has already been included
automatically in the bid price.
4.19      The foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at US$14.1
million equivalent; of this, the proposed loan would finance US$7.0 million
equivalent. An assurance was obtained from the Government during negotiations
that the remaining foreign exchange costs and all local costs would be met by
the Government.
1/   The design of the strengthening works would be carried out in conjunction
with the consultants providing the technical assistance to MOW.



- 18 -
4.20      Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:
(a)  for civil works, 22% of tDtal cost (equivalent to 43% of
the foreign exchange costs); and
(b)  for consulting services and technical assistance, 40% of
total cost (representing, on average, 83% of the foreign
exchange cost).
Retroactive financing, from the proDosed loan, of up to US$300,000 is recommen-
ded for detailed engineering of the project works in the East-West Corridor,
carried out since June 1974.
4.21      Based on the foregoing and on the implementation schedule indicated
in Annex 2, estimated disbursement of loan funds would be as indicated in
Table 9. Loan funds remaining on completion of the project, if any, should
be cancelled.
D.   Execution
4.22      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOW.  Con-
tracts for the civil works in the EaLst-West Corridor (representing 90% of all
the civil works proposed under the project) would be procured by international
competitive bidding in accordance w:ith the Bank's Guidelines. The works for
bidding purposes were divided into t:hree sections, and bidders were given the
option to bid for any or all of the sections. Bids are currently being
examined, and it appears that the lowest evaluated bid will be one for the
complete works.  This bid was submitted by a foreign firm, but it is expected
thaLt local firms will participate as subcontractors. The details and schedule
for. procurement were agreed during negotiations.
4.23      Strengthening of about 60 miles of rural roads is well within the
comipetence of local firms and would be procured by competitive bidding ad-
vertised locally.  The work would be bid in at least three lots to ensure the
possibility of participation by the smaller local firms. It would also be
beneficial to MOW if force account working were permitted, at least to carry
out: the necessary preliminary works. In Tobago, it may be advantageous to
execute the limited works by Ministry of Tobago Affairs force account. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the details and
schedule for procurement and the basis for involvement of force account works.
4.24      Supervision of the civil wrorks would be carried out by foreign
consultants in joint venture with local consultants and with participation
by MOW. The number and qualificaticins of MOW staff to be provided, the
conditions and terms of reference under which consultants would be retained
for the supervision, and the nature of the working arrangements between the
consultants and MOW were agreed during negotiations.
4.25      Detailed engineering of the highest priority sections in the
East-lWest Corridor (construction of which is included in the project) has
already been carried out by the consultants Lea/TRINTOPLAN.  The Bank had



- 19 -
no objections to the conditions and terms of reference for the consultants'
services, and the work has been carried out to the Bank's satisfaction.
4.26      Detailed engineering of the further high priority sections would
be carried out by foreign and local consultants in joint venture. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on conditions and
terms of reference under which the consultants would be retained.
4.27      Technical assistEnce programs for MOW and to help develop the
domestic construction industry would be provided either by a firm of consul-
tants or by individual consultants. The assistance would be procured by the
Government under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; agreement on the
conditions and terms of ref-erence for the consultants to be retained for
assistance to MOW was reached during negotiations. For assistance to the
domestic construction industry, the conditions and terms of reference would
be agreed with the Government when the results of the ongoing study are available.
4.28      A suitable implemaentation schedule, covering all elements of the
project, is given in Annex 2; this schedule was discussed and agreed with
Government during negotiations. This annex also shows appropriate supervisory
input by the Bank. Indicators by which the project may be monitored are
given in Annex 3. The purpose of project indicators, and the specific indi-
cators to be used for this project, were agreed during negotiations, as well
as the arrangements for coLlecting the information during, and after, the imple-
mentation stage.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  General
5.01      The quantitative economic evaluation concentrates on (a) the up-
grading works in the East-West Corridor and (b) strengthening of about 60
miles of rural roads. These two elements, including the detailed engineering
of (a) and the supervision of both, would account for about 90% of the proposed
investment under the project and would yield an economic return of about 25%.
The remaining elements of the project (detailed engineering of further high-
priority projects in the Corridor and technical assistance) are discussed
in qualitative terms only.
B.   Upgrading in the East-West Corridor
5.02      The East-West Corridor is described in paragraph 2.11; the main roads
in the Corridor to the east of Port-of-Spain -- the area of the proposed up-
grading works -- and their current traffic levels are described in paragraph
4.02 (see also Nlap IBRD 111696). Essentially, the Corridor east of Port-of-Spain
comprises two subcorridors, that centered on the Eastern Main Road and that
centered on the Beetham/Churchill-Roosevelt system. The two subcorridors are
approximately parallel, one to two miles apart. The Eastern Main Road is
characterized by almost continuous development, heavy population density and



- 20 -
traffic which largely serves the population located around and along it. The
proposed project roads, the Beetliam/Churchill-Roosevelt system, on the other
hand, are characterized by very light population density and long distance
traffic which serves the east of the island, and, by way of the Princess
Margaret and Solomon Hochoy Highways, San Fernando -- the second largest city
-- and the petroleum industry areas of the southwest.  Government action to
develop the Corridor is indicated in paragraph 2.12; action specifically re-
lated to transportation problems in the Corridor (paras. 2.13-2.17) can be
summarized as follows:
(a) immediate alleviation of currently unacceptable traffic congestion;
(b) preparation (including detailed engineering) for a Bus-Priority
Route using the right-of-way of an abandoned railway line; and
(c) traffic improvements in Port-of-Spain itself.
5.03      The improvement works included in the project would alleviate the
worst of the current congestion and, in fact, form part of the first phase of
the 15-year plan to improve transportation in the Corridor (para. 4.03). The
project works are described in detaiL in paragraph 4.04.
(i) Traffic
5.04      Current (1974) traffic levels in the Corridor east of Port-of-Spain
are indicated in Table 10. Congestion is severe; current average speeds on
the project roads are 15 and 25 mph in peak and off-peak periods, respectively.
During the height of the rush hours, average speeds drop to less than 10 mph.
The traffic composition for the roads is indicated in Table 10. The proposed
worlks on the Beetham/Churchill-Roosevelt system are expected to increase ave-
rage speeds to 25 and 35 mph in peak and non-peak periods, respectively. AADT
on the roads in the Corridor grew in the period 1966-1974 between 5 and 10%
p.a. However, the growth rate appears to be declining, and the consultants
who have carried out the transportat:ion study in the Corridor (paras. 2.13,
2.14) have estimated that, as a resuLt of the Government policy of decentrali-
zat:Lon in the Corridor (para. 2.12) and the shift from the private automobile
to bus transit, AADT will grow at less than 3% p.a. for the next 15-20 years
(Table 11). The proposed works under the project, combined with this reduction
in traffic growth, would have the eff-ect of increasing average speeds on the
Beetham/Churchill-Roosevelt system to 25 and 35 mph in the peak and off-peak
periods, respectively.
(ii) Benefits
5.05      In view of the fact that the area along the proposed project road
is already well developed, no development benefits are expected from the
projject. Quantifiable benefits attributable to the project works have been
limited in this evaluation to those arising from a reduction in the level of
congestion on the Beetham/Churchill-Roosevelt system, from the consequent
higher speeds and from the more stable flow of traffic. Speed/flow relation-
ships specific to the system were derived by the consultants; operating speeds



- 21 -
and associated operating costs, at peak and off-peak periods, without and with
the proposed works, are ind:Lcated in Table 12. Vehicle operating costs, as a
result of the proposed works, are expected to reduce in the opening year
(1978) by about 17% on average (weighted average of TTJ 7 per mile) and
travel time by about 35% (weighted average of 15 minutes on the seven-mile
road section). Much of the traffic on the project road originates from, or is
destined to, points east of Arima, central and southern parts of Trinidad, all
of which depend on Port-of-Spain for commercial and other activities.
5.06      There are also unquantifiable benefits.  Firstly, the present stop/
start and stagnant traffic pattern would be reduced, with a consequent reduc-
tion in emission from vehicles and a general improvement to environment. The
improvement of the Beetham/Churchill-Roosevelt system would undoubtedly attract
some traffic from the (parallel) Eastern Main Road, thus helping to alleviate
the appalling congestion there to the benefit of the large population centered
along the road. At present, about 95% of the transit buses and 60% of the
taxis operate on the Eastern Main Road. By diverting most of the long distance
traffic (taxis and private cars) from the Eastern Main Road, the project would
immediately enable improvement of the bus services there. Without the proposed
project, any improvement in bus services would have to await construction of
the Bus-Priority Route and the establishment of a better transit authority,
which could commence operation only by about 1980. Commuter and commercial
traffic using the Eastern Main Road would also benefit from the decongestion
resulting in traffic diversion to the project highway. The proposed project
would employ up to 1,000 unskilled and skilled workers during the construc-
tion period of about three years, which would alleviate the high unemployment
rate (para. 2.02).
5.07      In view of the faLct that the seven-mile project road is a very short
section of the highways to either the east coast or the south (San Fernando),
the initial benefits will mainly accrue to operators (vehicle operating cost
and time savings) and to the passengers (time savings). No reduction in fares
or transport rates is anticipated, but the project would delay the inevitable
increases in fares and rates which would result if congestion were allowed to
worsen.
(iii) Economic Return
5.08      The economic retulrn on the investment for the improvement of these
critical sections in the DEst-West Corridor is 17%, considering only vehicle
operating cost savings and 25% if time savings (valued at the full rate for
business trips, and at 25% of the full rate for other trips) are included
(Table 13). Sensitivity anialysis of the effect of a construction cost in-
crease of 35% over estimate, or a reduction of 25% of estimate of the benefits
in the opening year, indicates that the economic return would remain acceptably
high (at 19%, including time savings).
C.   Rural Road Strengthening Program
5.09      The pavement sections to be strengthened have not yet been identi-
fied. Typically, these would be national highways with moderate to high
traffic. The common characteristics of these roads are that they were not
designed for the traffic they now carry; they have narrow roadways (14-18



- 22 -
feet), generally poor alignments and inadequate, or no, shoulders. On some
of the worst sections, pavements have failed, reducing them to gravel or poorer
standards, and their bases are expected to fail within a few years, which would
necessitate their complete reconstruction. On the basis of most recent
similar works, the estimated cost of strengthening (asphalt overlay) one mile
of such road is about US$35,000 compared with an estimated future reconstruc-
tion cost of about US$100,000 per mile. In view of the substantial saving
in strengthening rather than reconstruction, it is estimated that the economic
return would be about 25%. With help from consultants providing technical
assistance to MOW, the Government would define a pavement strengthening pro-
gram for the 60 miles included in the project, priority being given to those
sections with fairly high economic rates of return.
D.   Detailed Engineering of Other High Priority Sections
5.10      No economic return has been calculated for the detailed engineering
of other high-priority sections included in the project and proposed for im-
provrement in the future. However, the beneficial effect to the economy would
be considerable because the detailed engineering would not only facilitate
construction of the Bus-Priority Rout:e, which would have very substantial
economic and social benefits, but would also speed up implementation of other
critical aspects of the Phase I Program, such as widening of the Princess
Margaret Highway and construction of the Mucurapo Foreshore Highway. Because
of manpower constraints in MOW (para. 3.10), this agency does not have the
capability to complete the detailed e-ngineering of all the components of the
program within a reasonable period. According to the Government's investment
program, the construction of these improvements should commence in 1976 and
be completed by 1981.
E.   Technical Assistance
5.11      The technical assistance to the MOW Highways Division is designed to
assist the staff in implementing the present project, provide on-the-job
training for proper supervision and improve its performance in complex civil
works, as well as to ensure that MOW would develop capabilities in (a) data
collection and analysis, (b) highway planning, (c) design and supervision of
highway works, and (d) investment programnmming (para. 4.12). The technical
assistance to the domestic construction industry would be structured to expose
local contractors to major civil works construction techniques, modern methods
of bidding for civil works, proper cost estimating and accounting methods, and
propier management of work crews, equipment and the firms. This, in turn, should
lead to better quality works, more competitive pricing than previously, and
savings in foreign exchange as local contractors replace expatriate firms
(para 4.13). No economic return has been computed for these technical assist-
ance programs to MIOW and the domestic construction industry since the benefits
are qualitative in nature and include improved performance in management, ad-
ministration, planning, and supervision of civil works.



- 23 -
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiatio,ns, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) design standards to be adopted for the link between
St. Joseph Road aLnd Piccadilly Street (para. 4.04(a));_
(b) establishment of an agency responsible for the formulation
and implementation of a continuing traffic management system
(para. 4.08);
(c) selection of the representative rural road sections in need of
improvement (para. 4.12);
(d)  details and schedule for procurement of the upgrading works
in the East-West Corridor (para. 4.22);
(e)  details and schedule for procurement for the road strengthening
element of the project and the basis for involvement of force
account works (para. 4.23);
(f) arrangements for supervision of civil works, including the
arrangements for participation by MOW (para. 4.24);
(g)  conditions and terms of reference for the consultants to be
engaged for detailed engineering (para. 4,26);
(h) conditions and terms of reference for the consultants to be
retained for assistance to MOW (para. 4.27); and
(i) implementation schedule, the specific indicators to be used
for monitoring the project and the arrangements for collecting
information (para. 4.28).
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following:
(a) that the Government is committed in principle to implementing
measures for relieving traffic congestion in the CBD of Port-
of-Spain (paras. 2.15(f) and 4.08(a);
(b) that a timetable for the construction and operation of the Bus-
Priority Route wrould be furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1977
(para. 2.18);
(c)  that the link between Piccadilly Street and St. Joseph Road
would be built before completion of the St. Joseph Road widening
(para. 4.04(a));



- 24 -
(d) that the institutional machinery necessary to implement the
measures for relieving urban transport problems would be
operational not later than June 30, 1976 (para. 4.08(b));
(e) that the Government would consult with the Bank, not later than
January 31, 1977, on a timetable for implementing such measures,
taking into account the recommendations of the agency to be
established for formulating and implementing a continuing
traffic management system ('para. 4.09); and
(f)  that all foreign exchange costs not covered by the loan and
all local costs would be met by the Government (para. 4.19).
6.03      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$7.0 mil-
lion equivalent for a period of 15 years, including a four-year grace period.
March 10, 1976



TABE 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Total Road Mileage (1965-1974)
Nationail HighwaVs                      Total      Total
National    All /2
Year      Paved Roads      Gravel Roads      Earth Roads      Highways   Roads -
1965         1,252              109              63             1,424     4,173
1966         1,252              109              63             1,,424    4,178
1967         1,252              109              63             1,424     4,250
1968         1,258              109              63             1,430     4,255
1969         1,258              109              63             1,430     4,260
1970         1,734 /3           109              63             1,906     4,335
1971         16754              109              63             1,926     4,335
1972         1,754              109              63             1,926     4,55
1973         1,754              109              63             1,926     4,355
1974         1,754              109              63             1,926     4,355
/t  Only those roads under the Ministry of Works.
/2  Includes roads and streels under the Ministry of Looal Government,
-  Port-of-Spain City Council, Arima and San Fernando Boroughs, and the Ministry of
Tobago Affairs.
/3  The increase over previouls year is due to reclassification of main roads under
other bodies to the Ministry of Works.
Source: Highways Division, 1MOW
April 1975



TABLE 2
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicles, 1964-1974 1/
Private     Taxis                          Tractors                Motor
Years     Cars       & Rented    Buses   Trucks    & Trailers    Total    Cycles
1964     42,803        8,464      345    11,658       3,349        66,619    2,163
1965     46,923        8,354      359    12,098       3,569        71,303    1,986
1966     5o,783        8,402      388    12,533       3,906        76,012    1,992
1967     54,492        8,375      462    12,759       4.153        80,241    2,119
1968     58,634        8,831      535    13,695       4,606        86,031    2,417
1969     59,561        8,938      574    13,377       4,536        86,986    2,647
1970     65,660        9,231      581    14,661      )4,995        95,128    3,130
1971     62,842        9,027      573    13,899       4,645        91,586    3,035
1972     69,651        8,795      581    14,956       4,466        98,449    3,251
1973     73,910        8,816      631    15,710       5,o19       104,086    3,288
1974     79,481        9,340      664    17,115       5,510       112,110    3,488
Average
Growth
Rate
1964-74   6.4%         1.0%       6.8%      3.9%       5.1%        5.3%       4.9%
% of
Vehicles
in 197l  71.0%        8.3%        o.6%    15.1%        5.0%       100%
1/   Registered motor vehicles do not necessarily reflect the number of annually
licensed vehicles since non-licensed vehicles are only withdrawn at irregular
intervals from registration lists (last done in 1971).
Source: Ministry of Works
April 1975



TABLE 3
TRMNIDAD AND TQ8.AOM
SESCOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle ?uel Consumption 1970-197i
(Millions of Impeial Gallons)
Gasoline
Ye ar     Premium      Regular       Diesoline      Lub. Oil
1970       17.1         30.3           16.0            2.0
1971       21.7         29.8           17.4            4.7
1972       26.7         27.0           18.2            1.4
1973       31.6         24.7           17.8            1.7
1974       35.9         24.1           17.5            2.0
Average Annual Inczease
1970-1974         5%                    2
Source: Ministry of Works
April 1975



TABLE 4
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECCND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures of National Highways 1964-1974
(i.e., only hose under MOWW)  -
. TT$ X[Lillions)
Calendar/                                                1/                Financing
Fiscal Year   Construction   Maintenance   Administration      Total   Foreign   Local
1964            3.0            5.5             0.4             8.9      -        8.9
1965            3.9            5.3             0.4             9.6      -        9.6
1966            6.1            4.8             0.4            11.3      -       11.3
1967            3.7            4.9             0.5            10.1    1.2        8.9
1968            2.9            4.7             0.5             8.1    0.1        8.0
1969            8.2            5.2             0.5            13.9    3.8       10.1
1970            9.6            5.6             0.5            15.7    5.2       10.5
1971           12.8            6.o             0.5            19.3   11.2        8.1
1972            9.4            6.7             0.7             16.8    4.4      12.4
1973            5.9            8.7             0.7             15.3    5.0      10.3
1974           16.1            10.7            0.8             27.6    4.7      12.9
Projected (at 1975 constant prices)
1975            7.0           12.0             1.0            20.0    1.0       19.0
1976           15.0           12.0             1.2            28.2    3.0       25.2
1977           18.9           12.0             1.2            31.1    4.0       27.1
1978           16.1           10.0             1.2            27.3    1.0       26.3
1979           18.8           10.0             1.2            30.0      -       30.0
1980           15.0           10.0             1.2            26.2      -       26.2
t/ Head office administrative expenses only, as all field administrative expenses are
charged to maintenance.
Sources R.nistry of Wbrks
April 1975



TABLE 5
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECCND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road User Charges
(TT$ Millions)
1266    1967    1968      1969    1970    1971    1972    1973   197h
FUELS (Tax)
Gasoline              5.86    6.29    9.12      9.58   10.00   11.14   11.58   15.60   8.60
Diesel                0.49    0.53    0.92      0.89    0.95    1.04    1.09    2.00   0.90
Lubricants              -       -      0.20      0.19    0.21    0.21    0.27    0.34   0.40
VEHICLES
Purchase Tax          3.85    3.92    3.97       5.05    6.25    8.04   12.30   13.80   9.50
Import Daty           0.78    1.04    0.54      1.36    2.40    2.49    3.57    2.10   2.00
Spare Parts Tax       0.26    0.27    0.27      1.07    1.26    1.49    2.10    0.70   1.80
Tyres Tax             0.22    0.19    0.12      0.50    0.53    0.72    0.38    0.23   o.46
LICENSE FEES
Vehicle Licenses      4.08    4.29    5.53      5.96    6.02    6.51    7.30    6.41   5.64
Drivers Licenses      0.52    0.55    1.12       1.14    1.21    1.27    1.30      -       -
TOTAL                   16.06   17.08   21.79    25.74   28.93   32.91   39.89   41.18  29.30
1/ Up to 9/30/74 only.
Source: East-West Corridor Feasibility Study, Phase I Report (Lea/TRINTOPLAN, Consultants)
and NOW
April 1975



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECCND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Comparison of Itoad User Charges and Total tixpenditure on All xtOadb (i1iG  A1t, Et al)
(TT$ Millions)
lative
1966     1967      1968     1969      1970     1971      1972      1973     1974    Total
Total Expenditure        20.L0    16.72    16.95    2h.02    26.03    29.14    32.55    29.84    43.46   239.11
Road User Charges        16.06    17.08    21.79    25.74    28.93    32.91    39.89    41.18    29.30- 252.88
Road User Charges
as % of Total                                                                                           Li
Expenditure             79%      102%      129%      107%     111%      113%     123%      138%    67%       106%
1/ Road user charges only up to September 1974. Road user charges for the entire 1974 are expected
to total TT$39 million, covering about 90% of total expenditure on roads.
Source: MOW and East-West Corridor Feasibility Study, Phase I Report
April 1975



TABIE 7
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Designs Standards for Project Roads
Churchill-
Design Element                    Bus Priority      Roosevelt         Other 4-Lane
Route           Highway          Highways
Design Speed            (mph)            40               40                 50
Minimum Stopping
Sight Distance        (feet)          275              275                350
Minimum Horizontal
Radius                (feet)          500              500                750
Maximum Grade            (%)              5                 6
Lane Width              (feet)           12               11                 11
Shoulder Width: left    (feeit)           8                8                  8
right   (feet)           0                 0                  4
Width of Right of-Way
(rural only)          (feet)         100               200                200
Design Loading of
Bridges                                    BS 153 Type HA and 27 units of HB
Sources:  MOW and Lea/TRINTOPLAN
February 1976



TRINIDAD AND TCIBALO                                  TABLE 8
5EGOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Goat Estimate
Foreign       Bank
Exchange    Partici-
Miles            NiT3llionB _          Uaislaitxl        P Compwonent   pation
(4.-e) Io   F=relgn  -fotl   wQ-l -   Foreljmt  Tot^;      %        S 
I. Civil Works (excluding land
acquisition) 1/
(a) Improvements to road sections
East-West Corridor:
- Section I - Beetham Hwy. incl.
interchanges and St. Joseph
Road                           4.9       18.00   18.00  36.oo       7.60     7.60   15.20
- Section II - Churchill-
Roosevelt Highway              1.5        2.25    2.25   4.50       o.95     0.95    1.90
- Section III - Churchill-
Roosevelt Highway              1.2         2.00    2.00   4-00       .85     o.85    1.70
Sub-Total        7         22.25   22.725  4-        9.40) -Y          88 1.0    50     4.10   22
(b) Improvement of about 60 miles
of road by strengthening and/or
resurfacing                                   2.40    2.40   4.80      1.00     1.00    2.00    50        0.40   22
Sub-Total I                72.658  24.65      4 9-3 T104    T104 .71          50        70   22
II. Consulting Services:
(a)  Detailed engineering of Item I(a)
(retroactive financing)                       0.95    0.70   1.65      0.40     0.30    0-70    40        0.30   40
(b)  Supervision of civil works - Item I(a)        2.60    1.70   4.30      1.10     0.70    1.80    40         0.70   40
(c)  Detailed engineering of (i) Bus-
Priority Route (12 miles); (ii)
Mucurapo Foreshore Freeway (2 miles);
and (iii) Princess Margaret Highway
(8 miles).                                    2.15    1-40   3-55      0.90     0.60    1.50    40         0.60   40
Sub-Total II               -7h         -   -        -TiiW      1.bO   1T:5     40        1.oO   0
III.  Technical Assistance
(a) to MOW Highways Division                       0.,25    1.40   1.65     0.10      0.60    0.70    80        0.27   40
(b) to the domestic construction
industry                                       e.05    0.20   0.25      0.02     0.0o    0.10    80         0.03   40
Sub-Total III               0.30   7T:76   1-90      0.12    7.-M      M0 o              0.30   40
IV. Contingencies
(a) Fhysical (5% of Item I)                        1.20    1.20   2.40      0.50      0.50    1.00    50        0.20   20
(b) Frice/2  (7%  of Items I, II, & III)           2.2     2.25       0     0.95      0.95    1.90    50        0.40   21
Sub-Total IV                3        . 4 3 - 45 6.9  1     5        1           50   0    .60   21
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  ALu   a.  n                   .        . 1           50        70    25
1/ Total cost of land acquisition estimated at US$0.5 mlllion.
2/ Price contingencies are based on the following yearly price increases (%):
t,ivil Works      -CoaUl4a Services
Iten I(a)       Item I(b)          Itexe 11(c) and III
1976                 0                13                     10
1977-79              5                12                      8
The figures for Item I (a) are lower than normal, since the conditions of contract for construction limit price
adjustmenl; to selected materials, and then only after the first year of the contract period (para. 4.18).
SOURCE: IJW, Lea/TRINTOPLAN and mission
February ].976



TABLE 9
TRINIDA.D AND TABAGO
SECOND HIGHWAY PRDJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal rear and                     at End of Quarter
Quarter Ending                           (US$ thousands)
1975/76
March 31, 1976                                     -
June 30, 1976                                     500
1976/77
September 30, 1976                              1,000
December 31, 1976                               1,600
Karch 31, 1977                                  2,400
Tune 30, 1977                                   3,000
1977/78
September 30, 1977                              3,400
December 31, 1977                               4,000
March 31, 1978                                  4,600
June 30, 1978                                   5,200
1978/79
September 30, 1978                              5,800
December 30, 1978                               6,300
March 31, 1979                                  6,800
June 30, 1979                                   6,900
1979/80
September 30, 1979                              7,000
Assumptions
Award of Contract             March 1976
Start of Construction         May 1976
Completion of Construction    October 1979
Source:  Appraisal Mission
February 1976



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Composition on SelectediRads in theEast-West Corridor, 1974 3%)
Private Cars 2/ Taxis2/ Light Trucks    Medium Trucks    Heavy Trucks    Buses
Project Roads
St. Joseph Road                         55             30            8                 5                 2            0
Beetham Highway Flyover                57              28            9                 5                 1            0
Beetham Highway;                        64             19            9                 4                 4            0
Churchill-Roosevelt Highway
Beetham Highway - Aranguez Road      65              18            9                 7                 1            0
Princess Margaret  - S.M. Road        65              15          11                 8                 3            0
Other East-West Corridor Roads
South Quay Street                       34             52            5                 3                 3            3
Lady foung - Beetham Highway            58              11          12                15                 0            0
El Socorro Road - Aranguez Road         43              38          I4                 5                  1           0
Southern Main Road at Curepe            59              17          17                 5                 1            1
Eastern Main Road!
Champs Fleurs - So. Main Road        50              37            7                 4                 1            1
Lady Young - Aranguez                54              34            7                 3                 1            0
at Old St. Joseph Road               36              50            5                 3                 3            3
i/  traffic on the proposed project road from outside the East-West Corridor (i. e.,
from the east coast, Airport, ban Fernando, etc.) constitutes about 40% of the AADT.
t But-8less  than half of all trips by prifate car and tawd are -for eenmiuting purposes.
Source: East-West Corridor Feasibility Study, Lea/TRINTOPLAN, Consultants
Septemoer 25, 1975



TABLE 11
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Forecast (PADT) on Projectand Related Roads
(in thousands)
Yearly
Growth
Actual            Forecast            after 1978
Route Section                 1173  1974   1979           989  l994  %_      _
St. Joseph Road               16.1  16.5   35.9  4o.6   45.9 51.9         2.5
Eastern Main Road (Lady
Young-Aranguez Roads)         -    30.5   20.5  23.7   27.4  31.5
Market Interchange            10.7  10.8   33.6  36.8  40.2  44.O         1.8
Beetham Highway               36.1  36.9   54h.8  61.1   68.2  76.0       2.2
Churchill-Roosevelt Hwy.
*(Beetham-Aranguez)            26.4  27.1   46.5  53.h  61.3  70.4        2.8
Churchill-Roosevelt (between
Princess Margaret and
Southern Main Road)         21.8  22.6  31.1  39.3   48.o  58.7         4.1
1/  Opening year for improred road sections is assumed to be mid-1979.  The
forecast assumes that no further road improvements in the East-West
Corridor will take place. As the bus-priority route to Aronca is
planned to be opened bj 1981., actual traffic thereafter will be less, due
to diversion of some taxis, emergency services and most government vehicles
from the project road.
Source: East-West Corridor Feasibility Study, Phase I Report (Lea/TRINTOPLAN
Consultants)
February 1976



TABLE 12
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND HIGHiWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Economic Costs per Mile (TT$)
(excluding time savings)
Existing RoadL                 Improved Road
Peak/        Off-peak          Peak        Off-peak
Speed  Cost   Speed  Cost     Speed  Cost   Speed  Cost
Private Car        15 mph   .49  25 mph   .38    25 mph   .38  35 mph   .33
Taxi                  "      49    ti   *33          "     *33     "      .25
Light Truck                 .66      t     43 "4    .43                   . 40
Medium Truck                 .89           .69             .69            .59
Heavy Truck           "   1.03             .85             .85            .75
Bus                   "    2.30      "    1.68       "   1.68            1.h4
L/ Represents present condition (1974) which is likely to deteriorate
before proposed improvement is completed.
2/ Peak signifies average congested condition now extending over about six
hours a day and applicable to 44 %  of traffic.
Source: East-West Corridor Feasibility Study, Phase I Report (Consultants)
and mission
April 1975



TABLE 13
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic RIeturn and Sensitivity Analysis
For the Upgrading Works in the East-West Corridor
Economic
Assumption                                       Return   /
Best Estimate                                                  25.0
(FYB = 27%) 2
Project costs overrun by:                     15%              22.4
25%             21.0
35%             19.5
Benefits decrease by                          15%              21.4
25%             19.0
Exclude time savings                                           17.0
Exclude time savings and decrease             10%              15.4
benefits by:                                20%              12.8
2/ 20-year economic lif'e.
2 First Year Benefit.
SOURCE: Mission
July 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
to the Ministry of Works, Highways Division
I.   Introduction
The Government of Trinidad and Tobago (the Government) has requested
financing from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank) for technical assistance to the Ministry of Works (MOW) Highways Division
within the following areas:
(a) highway planning and trafr.ic counting;
(b) information systems;
(c) contract administration, :Lncluding field s,upervision of contractors;
(d)  design/execution of rehabilitation, overlay and resealing to existing
roads; and
(e) soils and materials testirLg, production of asphaltic concrete, other
asphaltic mixes and cement/lime stabilization, pavement design, and
monitoring of pavement test sections.
II.. Objective
The objective of the technical assistance is to provide assistance
to, and on-the-job training of, MOW staff in all areas mentioned above, to
ensure that, at the end of the consultants' assignment, the Highways Division
will be fully capable to undertake, without further technical assistance, works
in all named disciplines.
III. Scope of Work
The consultants shall endeavor, to the best of their ability, to
assure that the objective of the assistance is met by carrying out, inter
alia, the following:
Highway Planning and Traffic Countin&
(a) establish with MOW an overall highway investment program for the
years 1977-1986 based, inter alia, on the findings of highway studies
already completed, as well as the ongoing CIDA-financed highway
evaluation, maintenance and organization study;



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(b) establish and inplement procedures for MOW to collect traffic data
on a permanent basis.
Information Systems
(c) review present iLnformation systems used in MOW Highways Division for
recording and processing of data related to works on advanced
planning, design and highway construction; recommend improvements
to present systems and assist in implementation of agreed recommen-
dations.
Design/Execution of Road Itehabilitation, Overlay and Resealing Works
(d) carry out, in collaboration with MOW, a survey of pavement strength
of representative road sections (min. 200 miles,of which about 25
miles should be in Tobago) in need of improvements, in conjunction
with an axle loading survey;
(e) from the pavement survey, develop deflection criteria, sufficiency
rating and/or other criteria for predicting unexpired pavement life
before strengthening is required;
(f)  carry out a research of the polishing,under traffic,of road surfacing
aggregates found in Trinidad and Tobago and make recommendations for
the use of aggregate in surface courses;
(g) develop a two-year program of road strengthening and improvement
consisting of pavement reconstruction, asphaltic overlays and double
surface treatment resealing, construction of which is to be started
no later than six months after the beginning of the technical
assistance; establish the economic rate of return of this program
based on approximate costs and benefits; select, within this program,
a representative subprogram of about 60 miles of roads (to be Bank-
financed);
(h) assist MOW in identifying ancillary works required prior to paving;
establish a program for ancillary works and assist MOW in implement-
ing the program;
(i) for sections to be undertaken by contract, assist in preparing tender
documents for the pavement reconstruction, asphaltic overlay and re-
sealing works;
(j) for sections to be undertaken by contract, assist HOW in the procure-
ment of above works, including prequalification of contractors,
review and evaluation of tenders, award of contracts, supervision
and administration of works;



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(k) for works to be undertakern by Government direct labor (force
account), assist in preparation of design, planning, execution
and control of works.
Soils and Materials Testing, etc.
(1) assist local counterparts and technicians in all aspects of labora-
tory and field soils/materials testing; make recommendations for,
and assist in, the development of the MOW Central Soils Laboratory
by improving quality and efficiency of its works;
(m)  train local counterparts and technicians in production of asphaltic
concrete and other asphaltic mixes; make recommendations for, and
assist in, the development of the MOW asphaltic plant operations;
and
(n) develop design criteria for cement and lime stabilization of local
pavement materials; assist in preparation of design, planning, execu-
tion and c6ntrol of the construction of test sections, including
cement/lime test sections where considered practicable, and monitor-
ing of the pavement performance.
IV. Timing and Reports
The consultant shall submit the following reports:
(a) Inception Report (10 copies to Government, 5 copies to the Bank),
within two months of starting date, stating briefly progress of
work, major problems encountered and detailed working program for
the remaining services of the consultants;
(b) Quarterly Progress Reports (10 copies to the Government, 5 copies
to the Bank) the first report to cover the months 3, 4 and 5,
stating briefly (i) progress during quarter and to date; (ii) dif-
ficulties encountered or expected; and (iii) recommended changes (if
any) to the working program;
(c) Special Reports and Working Papers as required (number of copies to
the Government and the Bank to be agreed) in the special fields
mentioned in Section I;
(d)  Draft Final Report (10 copies to the Government, five copies to the
Bank) 24 months after the starting date describing briefly (i) the
work performed; (ii) the progress made; (iii) areas in which progress
has not been fully satisfactory; and (iv) recommendations, including
recommended further Government action to a timetable;
(e)  Final Report (15 copies to the Government, 5 copies to the Bank)
within one month of receiving the Government's and the Bank's com-
ments on the Draft Final Report.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
V.   Data, Local Services aind Facilities to be Provided by the Government
The Government will provide the following facilities and services
to the consultants:
(a) counterpart staff, minimum three qualified engineers full time;
(b)  clerical and janitorial services;
(c) transportation within Trinidad and Tobago for official duties as
required, including operation and servicing of vehicles;
(d)  telephone, telegraph and postal services; and
(e)  existing relevant documents and other information as required for
the services.
If any of the above facilities or services listed under (b), (c)
and (d) should not be available, the consultant may, with prior approval by
MOW, acquire these facilities or services on a reimbursement basis.
February 1976



Tentative Timetable
Technical Assistance to MDW
Schedule
Years                        Man-Months
Positions and Qualifications                               1976         1977       1978      Consultants  Government
Team Leader: Senior Civil Engineering (at least 10 years
professional exnerience) with experience in highway planning         _                                   24
and administration, highway design, contract administration
and nersonnel training.
Counterpart:  Project Coordinator/Planner                            -----------------------                        24
Planning Engineer: Senior Civil Engineer, at least 10 years
professional experience in highway planning, economic eval-                                              21
uation, highway programming and traffic engineering.
Systems Analyst:   ivil Engineer with experience in systems
and propedurp..q.                                                                                        10
Soils and iaterials Enrineer:  Civil Fngineer with experience
in laboratoryr and field testing, pavement and overlay design.                                           15
IIW Counterpart:  Soils Engineer                                       -24
Prject Engineer:  Civil Engineer with exoerience in highway
maintenance, asphalt paving and rehabilitation works,                        __                          22
contract administrati on.
>SW Counterpart:  Assistant Project Engineer                              ------------------                        18
Senior Asnhalt Technician:  Technician with extensive
experience in asphalt and soils testing and production                                                    6
of asohaltic concrete, surface bitumen.
Home-Office Support                                                 ----___ --------     --------         2
loG         66
Fehruar.7 1),/c



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
I M P L E M E N T A T I O N S C H E D U L E
PROJECT  DESCRIPTION                                        1975         1976        1977         1978        1979
CIVIL WORKS FOR:
- East-West Corridor Roads  - Prequalification                 n
- Bidding
- Construction                          L_           _
- Supervision T
- 60 Miles of Rural Roads   - Prequalification
- Bidding
- Supervision                                           _       _
- Conpervction-
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO:
- Ministry of Works         - Proposals
- Highway Planning                                . _
- Information Systems
- Design 200 miles                              _
- Contract Documents 60 mi.
- Domestic Construction
Industry     - Proposals
- Review Datra etc.
- Training, etc.
DETAILED ENGINEERING OF:
- Bus-Priority Route        - Proposals
- Design & Documents
- Mucurapo Foreshore        - Proposals
- Design & Documents
- Princess Margaret         - Proposals
- Design & Documents
- Bank Supervision Missions - Engineer                                   WVV        ?   Vt    Vt r  v   v
- Economist                                V      V              ;                 r
SOURCE: Mission
Febru;rv 1976



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND HIGhiWAY PROJECT
Project Indicators
East-West Corridor Roads
(Traffic Volume (AADr) in Thousands)
Eastern Main Road          Market             Beetham                  Churchill-Rooselt HighwaE
Year                    St. Jose h Road   (Lady Youn -Aranguez       Intercaange            Highwav            Beetham-Aranguez      P. MarRare t-Southern
Forecast Measured   Forecast Measured  Forecast Measured  Forecast Measured    Forecast   Measured    Forecast  Measured
Completion date
Vehicle - Car 2-      203 3                 15. 0                 19.1                 35.1                   30.3                    20.9
- Taxi        11.1                   9.3                   9.5                10.64                    7.0                   24.7
- Bus          0.0                   0.3                   0.0                 0.0                     0.4                    0.0
- Truck        5.5                   3.1                   5.1                 9.3                    89.                     6.4
Completion date + 1 year
Vehicle - Car         21.3                  15.3                  19.5                 35.9                   31.1                    21.7
- Taxi        11.6                   9.5                   9.6                10. 6                    7.2                    14.9
-axi0.0                            0.3                   0.0                  0.0                   0U.4                    0.0
- Truck        5.8                   3.1                   5.2                 9.5                     9.0                    6.7
Completion date + 2 years
Vehicle - Car         22. 3                 15.6                  19.8                 37.5                   32.0                   22.6
Ve e- Caxi    12.2                   9.8                   9.8                10.8                     7.4                    5.1
- Taxi        Oo                    0.3                   0.0                 0.0                     0.4                    0.0
Bus
- Truck        6.1                   3.2                   5.3                  9.7                    9.3                    6.9
Completion date + 3 years
Vehicle - Car         23.14                 15.9                  20.2                 37.5                   32.9                    23.5
- Taxi        12.7                   9.9                   9.9                11.1                     7.6                    5 .3
- Bus          0.0                   0.3                   0.0                  0.0                    0.14                   0.0
- Truck        6.3                   3.3                   5.54                 9.9                    9.6                     7.2
Completion date + 4 years
Vehicle - Car24h3                     16.2                  20.5                 38.2332 4
- Taxi    13.2                  10.0                  10.1                11.3
-Taxi          0.0                   0.3                   0.0                 0.0                     0.14                   0.0
- Truck        6.5                   3.14                  5.5             j10.1                       9.8                    7.14
Y/ Scheduled for mid-1979.
2/ Private cars, pickups and jeeps.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Beetham/Churchill Roosevelt Highways
Between Market Interchange and Southern Main Road
Average Vehicle Operating Speeds
Forecast                Measured
Year                        Peak /1   Off-Peak /2       Peak,  Off-Peak
Completion date        -3 years     15 mph    25 mph
Completion date       -2 year's        "  
Completion date        -1 year         I f
Conpletion date /3                 25 mph    35 mph
Completion date       +1 year      25 mph    35 mph
Completion date       +2 years        "          ft
Completion date       +3 years        it
Completion date       +4 years        "          i
/1  Peak speed is the average of hourly speeds from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m., and
3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
/2  Off-peak speed is the aveirage of hourly speeds from 5:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m.,
9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., End 7:00 p.m0 to 10:00 p.m.
13  Completion is scheduled f'or mid-1979.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Roadworks Program
Upgrading in East-West and North-South Corridors (A-D)
Improvement and Strengthening of Rural Roads (E)
._______________ I               1976    1977    1978    1979   -1980    1981    1982
Forecast
A) Beetham/Churchill-
Roosevelt Highway    Actual
B) BUEs-Priority Route   Forecast
Port-of-Spain to
Arouca               Actual
Forecast
C) Mucurapo Foreshore
Actual
Forecast
D) Princess Margaret
Highway              Actual
Forecast      130 rLi  150 mi  160 mi  160 mi  160 mi  160 mi  160 mi.
E) Rural Roads
Actual



Domestic Construction Industry
Factors Relating to the General Status of the Industry
(Excluding Petroleum Industry and Other Mainly Specialized Works)
I.   Before Technical Assistance a      II.  After Technical Assistance A
Annual Data Requirement  / 1           1972    1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
1.   Total capital expenditures on
civil works -- public and
private (TT$ million)
2.   Work executed by Foreign
Firms (TT$ million and % of
Total)
3.   Total value of construction
equipment for civil works in
T&T (TT$ million)
4.   % owned by Government
5.   % owned by Domestic Firms
6.   Number of contracts bid/L#
awarded/completed in T&T
7.   % of (6) applicable to
domestic firms
/1   All figures in monetary terms to be expressed in constant (i.e. comparable) TT$.
/2   Only contracts with value greater than TT$ half million (see footnote /1) to be considered.
13   The data for "I" would be compiled by the consultants providing technical assistance
to the Domestic Construction Industry.
A    Compare with extrapolation of "I".
February 1976






TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Works
MINISTER
Permanent
secretary
Adm. Services                        Construction                        Highways                                     Building Con-                                     Drainage                          Temporary
Division                                   ivisionin                     Division                                     struction Div.                                    Division                   .  ..   .       - ::
Chief Serv,                       Director                                       Dir. Baildig 1                                  Director of   j108/1HU Project unit
Comptrol1er                         Officer                            of Highways                                    Construction                                    Drainage
_                                     _                  |      . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DirectLor   -2
Chief Serv.                                                    Office of Director                                             Off. Director
Chief erv-                                   ~~~~~~~~~~of Highways
Officer                                                       T.A. Roads Drainage                                            Engineering                                          Depe   Director
T.A. Mechanical                                               T.A. Soils (Lab.)
Esquip. Work k,                                               Records Roads and                                                                                             .     Cii E
Study Officer                   Project                       Bridges
Trasport                     e                  M     a                                         o  ln                                                                                                                 Administrate 
rIds                                                                                         P     Tratinage                                                          Drainag.  .Schol
Divis"o r                Dinision               Branch                 Branch                 Branch                  Braoch                    Branch               Operat. Br.               Plan. Br.
I tnterval   |-q        Finance      1  4       Eqtuipmnent    |Beadsctio|                                                                    SurveyorsCon-
Audit                                                                                                                                                                             AdminiBr.ratioc
Personnel &               anagemeElectrical
Establish-              Services                                                                                        Branch
ment
I                                                                                                           Rod 1rwv                                I   SIr I
nPlaning              Survevons            Construction                                                                                   a                     vyrs       I
| Section       ||       Section       | |Section                                                                     Inspectors    11    Office       |         eton
| Daries      sRencdtCvn     | | sRouacdts OCnon-   ||   Roads Surf.n-
Zun T|MPOAR  T           Maint. iNeoth)  ||  Maint. (South)  |  |                                                                                                                -n 0241
:1TEMPORARY UNIT                                                                                                                                                                                           Wo.rld B-1, -15241






TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of Higiways Division (MOW)
DIFECTR O FHIGHWAYS
ISOILS LABORATOY                                                                                                           OFFICE OF DIRECTOR
Ft1c~.I)T                                                                                                           Exective Ant. (I)
Scientific Asst. I1 M1)I.                                                                                                  wE        lU12
I   "        ))1 2)I'..-..-.-...--.-.---Civil Enuinevr 11 12)
I.Lb. Asst I(II                                                                                                            Engineering Ant'. 11()1
Clerical Staff
Secretarial Staff
:    HIGHWAYS PROJECT,                   BRIDGES                       RAOS CONSTRUCTION                 ROADS PLANNING
4TEMPORARY)UNIIT    .        ,i _~E    ..]       BRN                                 R'A NCR
CHlEF PN NIRDOES ENGINEER BRA      NCHII E                                       NTNGINEER              CHIEF PLANNING ENGINEER
r     -CivEgmer 11M     PLANNING SECTION             CONSTRUCTION SECTION|                               Cil Engineer 11 (2)
Engineering Asst. I 1)         Cii  ngne I                  Civil Engineer 1; 1)                                  V    gne
Civil EngineerC1E (1)                                                    Civili EngineerI1)
Clerk Typist I (1)             Civil Engineer I (1)         Bridge Sup t f)IIngerI(2)
ORAFTING OFFICE   I                                               ING OFFICE             SURVEYING ~~~~~~~~~SECTION
| Works Supervisor  EI (2n e vsOra                      f              AstI.              INSPECTION SECTION                Ornftsman 11(3)               Engineering Suveyor I
EngneermgAsstM2) | | Draftsman I (1)QW  k Supervic   2       Works Supervisor I1M4)           Draftsman 1M4)        |                            (2)
Elting &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t. 1)  ~ ~ ~  ~          ~          ~         Dafig Assstant (3)I12
ROADSURFACING               |       INORTH ROADSON-                                   ROADS CO
SECTION                           STPUCTION SECTlOE TRCON  SECION
ROADS SURFACING SUP'T                 ROADS S         TENDENT (1)                    SUPERINTENDENT M1)
| OUARRIES SECTION                                                                                                      Engin..r,ng Asst II i
Duarries superonor II1)Sci) n    A-rgAi. 1(
I I)1                   Laboato   ryiAstrvey1) 1                                                     Engineenring Surneyor 1)1
Precast Concrete Foremao (1)                                                 Draftsman I f )                           Draftsman I 12)
ROAD SURFACING               ROADS SUPERVIS                ROAOR                        ROADS SUPERV S             |                                 ROADS SUPERVISOR VISOR        ROADS          ISO            ROADS SUPERVISOR              ROADS SUPERVISOR
SUPERVISOR  )            |         |GEORGE WEST)           CARONI)            |          S. GEORGE EAST                    N                         (VICTORIA EAST)               (NARIVA MAYARO) (VICTORIA WEST)                             (ST. PATRICK)
WORKS FOREMAN 1I 1) 1                                                                                                   O WORK SUPER. 1 )2  WORK SUPE   WORK  SUPERE.   (5)     WORK SUPER. 1 3)  WORK SUPER. I)3)  WE    )2)                     WORK SUPER. ()1)
World Bunk- 15240






'";.-RAUAMA ISlFD                                6P40'                          6130                            6120                            6110 
' < " _ X   i . , t.i /f. t9'_1/ .1   t brarn  awr aa thu rnP"I -o                                                                                                            Sonr .So..   ,:.    c-'4 5
4   HA,TAITOM EPTO  RICO   LEEWVARD    iapWy rhrd-errr or apfri  by *e                                            Z 'Mr                                                                        Jto
1             -          s.       World A*dfto fflAntnx
JAAC  rtLE,                                                                                             Chupur Pt.        Blachs v                                         R-iere     
. y, A/ - . wu MMCaTa Q >                                           5T. ANDRERW
-~ -K0~~   .) VENEZUELAGeek
zvX  '; to S  .chaeochocore              b
6A. t'IandsT                                                                           ST,J
-040                                           -       Monos                                                                                                                                                04'
ls[cands     o)0
PORT-OF-5PI 1=11 
REFER TO IEBRD ,1696     "GPO
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                                                                           -to
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                              B,oz,l   unaz>
PROPOSED
-  -  -   Existing Roads to be Widened and Improved                                     ChaOuaO            ne-gdepvi                                                                           to COyal 
......Roo  -FnalDesigns
Rood Interchonges                                                                       Ra
EXISTiNG
Main Roads                                        |n!*
Secondary Roads
-  ---Unpaved Roads                                                                                             bc
First Highway Project(Solomon Hochoy)
am  mm  District Boundries                                    IO.                                      a
Ministry of Works, District Offices                                                                                                                                        Prt Rod,.
*         Main Offices                                                             el                                                       _6    StJoseph
O         Secondary Offices                                 \                                                                                  Ilr
*       Internotional Airport                                          SAN FERNANDO                                    Tobleloi
P'OMETERS                    Pon PorNir
-10'10'                                                    <0                                             ea               
Swamps Pt   Gron|ST PAT R I                                                                                                                   T-V
Fullor      l                                      l       S                                ( 
KILOMETERSFaiS n   Frtncine0
Cacos Point_
A1'50'                         At' 40'                        6V30'                           6120'                          6I't'             A' 6100', ,
I                    I S'                                                                                                    _IIU                                                                       C






62030I
TRINIDAD  AND TOBAGO                                                    To. ecoostriatod                            A      ; An    teeF.y8a (
SECOND  HIGHWAY  PROJECT                                                   n Fnaioesiqn C-p                                               bll0
EAST-WEST CORRIDOR                                                         ; ,, 
The b-J,-OM  56h-  rhio rp d, -
irrply  -Ird--1err1rro   Ace11PSS-   by  ths
S 1 40,                                                   FX-9AWS M ' O .  1D  40 TACAPA
>~~~~~~OAK   IN- I                                            :$}-ANIr_>                                                                     '                         S
62 30                       X0 S                         rle. . .



