                   INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                         RESTRUCTURING STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 03/01/2012                                  Report No.: AC6648
1. Basic Project Data
Country: Tanzania                             Project ID: P092898
Project Name: Performance Results and Accountability Project
Task Team Leader: Sanjeev Ahluwalia
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 25, 2007       Estimated Board Date: September 27, 2007
Managing Unit: AFTPR                          Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program
                                              Loan
Sector: Central government administration (100%)
Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (50%);Other public sector governance
(25%);Other accountability/anti-corruption (25%)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):             0
IDA Amount (US$m.):             40
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0
Other financing amounts by source:
         BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             2.00
         CANADA: Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)18.00
         DENMARK: Danish Intl. Dev. Assistance (DANIDA)                 3.20
         UK: British Department for International Development (DFID) 40.60
                                                                      63.80
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Simplified Processing                         Simple []          Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                  Yes [ ]     No [X]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
To enhance performance management in select MDAs of the United Republic of
Tanzania and to increase their responsiveness to clients.

3. Project Description
The revised components of the Project are given below:

 Component 1: Systems and Policies to Support Service Delivery
 Carrying out of subprograms to support the recipient’s Public Service Reform
Programs-II in the following areas:

 (1) Institutionalization of performance management systems in the selected MDAs,
including (a) higher quality strategic plans (b) open performance review and appraisal
system (c) client/ service delivery charters and (d) timely and quality monitoring,
evaluation and reporting by MDAs and (e) training of trainers on implementing
performance contracts for Permanent Secretaries.
 (2) Restructuring MDAs and re-engineering service delivery through: (a) creation of
additional executive agencies and (b) re-engineering business processes.
 (3) Promoting e-government and knowledge management Systems by setting-up: (a)
an operational e-government portal and (b) an operational and equipped e-government
agency to enhance the efficiency and quality of public service.
 (4) Improving records management by (a) operationalizing the upgraded HCMIS in
all MDAs (b) upgrading manual record management systems and facilities in select
MDAs and (c) supporting the construction and equipping of a National Records Center.
 (5) Promote participative and evidence based policy development through mentoring
and training of staff in two ministries.

 Component 2: Human Resources Management, Pay, Incentives, Leadership and
Capacity Development Carrying out of subprograms for:

 (1) Reforming the structure of pay, incentives and rewards by (a) carrying out studies
to implement the recommendations of the Presidential Commission on Salary Review for
the Public Service, including the technical application of the recommendations (b)
developing and implementing a pay and incentives strategy which (i) rationalizes
incentives and allowances to serve in hard to serve areas to ensure equity in the
distribution of human resources, (ii) links pay and incentives to performance, (iii) ensures
adequacy of compensation levels to attract and retain qualified professionals within the
given fiscal constraints and (iv) establishes realistic staffing norms for the distribution of
human resources.
 (2) Strengthening and decentralizing human resources management processes and
systems by (a) training staff in all MDAs in the use of the HCMIS (b) supporting all
MDAs which have formulated their training plans, based on Training Needs Assessment,
to implement their training plans (c) assist selected MDAs to formulate human resource
plans including training plans and succession plans.
 (3) Managing diversity by supporting affirmative measures in support of
disadvantaged groups (women and physically challenged persons) including: (a) assisting
relevant staff to attain Masters degrees in all MDAs; and (b) implementing diversity
guidelines in the selected MDAs.
 (4) Strengthening the capacity of local training institutions
 (5) Supervising the implementation of the guidelines for management of HIV/AIDS
in selected MDAs.
 (6) Organizing and delivering top leadership training programs

 Component 3: Change Management and Reform Coordination Carrying out
subprograms for:

 (1) Supporting project implementation by (a) developing the capacity of POPSM for
oversight, coordination, facilitation and leadership, (b) supporting minor rehabilitation
and retooling (equipment and furniture) for POPSM offices and (c) supporting day to day
administration and management of the project, including strengthening the capacity for
procurement and financial management.
 (2) Strengthening the capacity for reforms coordination by providing technical
assistance for program coordination, financial management and procurement to support
the efficient functioning of the Reform Coordination Unit in the office of the Chief
Secretary.
 (3) Assisting the initial development of public service reforms for the Revolutionary
Government of Zanzibar by carrying out diagnostic work on public service reform and/or
policy development and supporting the implementation of low-cost interventions such as
records management, including provision of the necessary equipment.

 Component 4: Accountability and Responsiveness to the Public
 Carrying out subprograms for:

 (1) Strengthening the demand side of accountability for service delivery by
supporting (a) feedback from citizens and civil society organizations and (b) ensuring
implementation of the complaints handling system in selected MDAs.
 (2) Developing and operationalizing a framework for ethical conduct in the public
service by (a) making the internal systems for exercising oversight over ethical conduct
more effective in selected MDAs and (b) monitoring the responsiveness of the
established disciplinary process to cases of violation of the Code of Ethics in selected
MDAs.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The project location is Dar es Salaam and Dodoma.As the project supports activities
related to capacity building, adverse environmental impacts are expected to be low. The
project will maintain the Environmental Category B - Partial Assessment as the original
project. Safeguard policies will be considered specifically on civil works. The
Environmental and Social Management Framework and Resettlement Policy Framework
for the original project are quite relevant and will be applicable for the restructured
project. Environmental issues mainly anticipated from the civil work for construction of
the National Records Center in Dodoma have been defined in the partial Environmental
and Social Impact Assessment, which was carried out in May 2011. The project also has
in place an Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) and associated
Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP), which are sufficient to manage the limited
environmental and social impacts associated with the construction and operation of NRC.
The minor internal rehabilitation like painting, plastering, changing doors and windows,
roof repair etc. is being done as a part of the restructured project in the office of the
POPSM at Dar es Salaam within the existing footprint of the POPSM offices. No new
construction is envisaged, impacts are minor and localized and hence environmental and
social management of the internal rehabilitation works will be guided by applicable
national and local laws and procedures.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Ms Helen Z. Shahriari (AFTCS)
  Ms Jane A. N. Kibbassa (AFTEN)

6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                              Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                         X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                            X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                     X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                 X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                          X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                              X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                         X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                  X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
An enviromental and social management framework and a resettlement policy framework
were prepared by the borrower and approved by the National Environmental
Management Agency. This was undertaken during preparation of the Accountability,
Transparency and Integrity Project (P070544). These two documents were disclosed at
the project location which is the Zonal Records Center in Dodoma, POPSM, Tanzania
Public Information Center in the Tanzania Global Distance Learning Center, the National
Environmental Management Council, Directorate of Records and Archives and at the
Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs. A notice was placed in the widely read
English and Kiswahili newspapers informing the general public of the availability of
these documents which includes a contact for any enquiries related to the project. The
minor internal rehabilitation of the POPSM offices in Dar es Salaam are all within the
footprint of the existing building. No new construction is envisaged. The impact is minor
and localised and environmental and social management of these internal rehabilitation
works will be guided by applicable national and local laws and prodecures.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
Nil

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
Not applicable

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
The project has in place an Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) and
associated Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP), which are sufficient to manage the
limited environmental and social impacts associated with the construction and operation
of the National Records Center in Dodoma.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Does not apply.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                 04/30/2007
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                             05/07/2007
  Date of submission to InfoShop                              06/22/2007
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                 04/30/2007
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                             05/07/2007
  Date of submission to InfoShop                              06/22/2007
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?              No
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)          N/A
  review and approve the EA report?
  Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the               Yes
  credit/loan?
  OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
  Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process                   Yes
  framework (as appropriate) been prepared?
  If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector             Yes
  Manager review the plan?
  The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
  Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's            No
  Infoshop?
  Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a            Yes
  form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
  groups and local NGOs?
  All Safeguard Policies
  Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities         Yes
  been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
  policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project        Yes
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the                Yes
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the                  Yes
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?


  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                                Name                            Date
Task Team Leader:                    Mr Sanjeev Ahluwalia                             02/17/2012
Environmental Specialist:            Ms Jane A. N. Kibbassa                           02/17/2012
Social Development Specialist        Ms Helen Z. Shahriari                            02/17/2012
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:    Ms Alexandra C. Bezeredi                           02/17/2012
  Comments:
Sector Manager:                     Mr Anand Rajaram                                   02/17/2012
  Comments: I concur with the assessment of the Safeguard Specialist of the project team.
