Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4363-TA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Performance Results and Accountability Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 7, 2007 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4363 -TA 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated December 7, 2007, entered into between UNITED 
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twenty six million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 26,200,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.  
ARTICLE V — TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.02 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P. O. Box 9111 
Dar es Salaam 
 Tanzania 
 Facsimile: 
 
(255) 222 11 77 90 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By: 
   /s/ 
Ramadhani 
Mussa 
Khijjah 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
   /s/ 
John 
Murray 
McIntire 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project 
is to support the Recipient’s efforts to enhance the 
capacity, performance and accountability of its MDAs in use of public resources and 
service delivery to levels consistent with timely and effective implementation of the 
strategic and priority programs under the MKUKUTA.  
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
Part A:
Systems to Support Service Delivery 
Carrying out of Subprograms to support the Recipient’s public service reform 
programs in the following areas: 
1. 
Institutionalization of Performance Management Systems
Deepening application of the performance management system, 
 
including: (a) a monitoring framework for executive agencies; (b) good practice tools for 
MDAs; (c) higher quality strategic plans for MDAs; (d) effective application of an open 
performance review and appraisal system by MDAs; (e) more relevant service delivery 
charters, and better utilized by clients; and (f) timely and quality monitoring, evaluation 
and reporting by MDAs. 
2. 
Restructuring MDAs and re-engineering service delivery
Encouraging MDAs to decentralize services to enhance cost efficiency 
 
and effectiveness in service delivery, through: (a) creation of additional executive 
agencies; (b) outsourcing non-core services to private sector; and (c) re-engineering 
business processes. 
3. 
Promoting e-Government and knowledge management systems
Developing: (a) a robust, cost-effective and appropriately-funded program for 
rolling out e-Government applications in the public service; and (b) institutional 
environment and capacity to encourage wide application of e-Government within the 
public service, and to enhance efficiency and quality of public service. 
4. 
Improving record management
Increasing transparency and efficiency in management and provision of 
information, including supporting the construction of a building to house the National 
Records Center. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Part B:
Policy Development
Carrying out of a Subprogram for: (a) strengthening central MDAs and the 
Cabinet Secretariat in the respective policy making roles, including development, 
implementation and monitoring; (b) enhancing the capacity of the policy development 
and regulatory units within MDAs; and (c) improving the climate for participatory policy 
development by MDAs. 
Part C
:
Pay, Incentives and Rewards
Carrying out of a Subprogram for: (a) implementing  the recommendations  
of the Presidential Commission on Salary Review for the Public Service, including the 
outcome of the technical application of the recommendations; (b) supporting PO-PSM to 
develop and implement a central performance-based rewards and incentives 
 
systems; (c) supporting MDAs to develop and implement non-salary rewards and 
incentive systems; (d) supporting review the planning and budgeting framework to 
maximize opportunity for strategically allocating and utilizing wage bill resources 
transparently; and (e) establishing clear guidelines for use of allowances to remove 
distortions. 
Part D
:
Accountability and Responsiveness to the Public
Carrying out of Subprograms to support responsiveness and accountability in the 
public service in the following areas:  
1. 
Strengthening the demand side of accountability for service delivery
Supporting: (a) creation of fora to encourage proactive exchange of views and 
interaction among the citizens, the Recipient’s government, and civil society; (b) the 
development of capacity of MDAs for information, education and communication as a 
mechanism for effective dissemination of information to the public; and (c) introduction 
of a mandatory performance reporting framework for implementation by the MDAs. 
Page  8
-
7
-
2. 
Creating and enhancing channels for feedback from citizens and clients
Supporting: (a) roll-out of a complaints and grievances handling mechanism in 
all MDAs; and (b) provision of training to staff of MDAs on use of the complaints and 
grievances handling mechanism.  
3. 
Developing and Operationalizing an institutional accountability framework for 
use by MDAs
Strengthening the capacity of ethics oversight institutions within the MDAs, and 
rationalizing their respective functions. 
4. 
Strengthening internal accountability mechanisms within government
Developing an institutional accountability framework for use by MDAs to report 
on agreed indicators, including rewards and sanctions.  
5. 
Enhancing the capacity of the Public Service Commission for effective 
performance of oversight role and functions. 
6. 
Promoting ethical conduct in the public service. 
Part E
:
Systems for Managing Public Servants
Carrying out of Subprograms to support human resources management of public 
service in the following areas:  
1. 
Strengthening and decentralizing human resources management processes and 
systems
Carrying out of reviews of the current management capacities, defining areas for 
decentralization and improving the human resources processes and regulatory 
environment including, recruitment, planning, training and appraisal to meet the 
expectations of clients and the public. 
2. 
Combating HIV/AIDS in the workplace
Supporting specific, gender-based interventions to reduce the high level of 
attrition and wastage among public servants. 
3. Managing 
diversity
Supporting affirmative measures in support of disadvantaged groups in the public 
service, including encouraging: (a) diversity interventions, including expansion of gender 
mainstreaming; and (b) MDAs to implement policies and programs to support physically 
challenged employees within the public service. 
Page  9
-
8
-
4. 
Strengthening the human capital management information system. 
5. 
Transforming human resources administrators in MDAs and local government 
authorities into human resources managers. 
6. 
Strengthening local training institutions to provide effectively programs needed 
for improving public service performance
Strengthening and expanding the capacity of local training institutions. 
Part F
:
Leadership Development
Carrying out of Subprograms for: 
1. 
Identifying, developing, and nurturing leadership capacities of public service 
managers
Creating and developing a cadre of leaders for the public service that will have 
vision and commitment to participate actively in the transformation of the public service, 
including: (a) operationalizing a leadership competence framework; (b) implementing 
competence-based leadership development programs; and (c) implementing a leadership 
succession scheme. 
2. 
Recognizing and rewarding exemplary leadership
Developing and implementing a scheme for rewarding exemplary performance 
within the public service. 
3. 
Organizing and delivering top leadership training programs
Identifying and developing leaders and recognition of exemplary leaders, 
including developing competency-based leadership training programs, exposing top 
leaders to strategic contemporary issues and operationalizing a mechanism to coordinate 
training for top leadership. 
Part G:
Change Management and Reform Coordination
Carrying out Subprograms for: 
1. 
Supporting implementation of the Project and Program
(a) 
Developing the capacity of PO-PSM for oversight, coordination, 
facilitation and leadership for implementation of the Project; and (b) Supporting  
day-to-day administration and management of the Project, and enhancing management of 
the Program, including strengthening the capacity for procurement, financial 
management and retooling PO-PSM. 
Page  10
-
9
-
2. 
Promoting the effective integration of reforms at MDA level
Building the institutional capacity of the MDAs to ensure integration of 
crosscutting reforms with sector development programs and service delivery initiatives. 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity for reforms coordination
Supporting the establishment of a reform coordination unit. 
4. 
Enhancing knowledge, participation and commitment to Program at all levels
Supporting: (a) development of a communication strategy to inform and gain  
the support for the public service reforms at all levels; (b) development of the capacity  
of key executive agencies to communicate more clearly with government and the  
public; and (c) information dissemination campaign, and initiating consensus building for 
public service reforms. 
5. 
Assisting the initial development of public service reforms for the Revolutionary 
Government of Zanzibar
Carrying out diagnostic work, and/or policy development, and/or supporting the 
implementation of low-cost identified interventions for the Revolutionary Government 
for Zanzibar. 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
1. 
Public Sector Reforms Steering Committee
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, at all times until the completion of the 
Project, an Public Sector Reforms Steering Committee chaired by the 
Chief Secretary, and including in its membership the Permanent 
Secretaries of all MDAs, with a composition, mandate and resources 
satisfactory to the Association. 
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the Public 
Sector Reforms Steering Committee shall meet at least two times  
in a Fiscal Year, and shall be responsible for, 
inter alia
:
(i) policy 
guidance, and facilitating coordination of the activities of among  
MDAs; and (ii) reviewing  the progress made towards achieving the 
Project’s objectives. 
2. 
PSRP Management Committee
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, at all times during the implementation  
of the Project the PSRP Management Committee: (i) chaired by the 
Permanent Secretary PO-PSM, and including in its membership 
 
the Deputy Permanent Secretaries, or senior officers appointed by the 
Permanent Secretaries of the MDAs; and (ii) with a composition, 
mandate and resources satisfactory to the Association. 
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the PSRP 
Management Committee shall be responsible for: (i) technical 
coordination of the Project; (ii) providing overall strategic 
 
guidance, monitoring and reviewing progress and resulta of program 
implementation; and (iii) reviewing and endorsing for joint approval  
by the Recipient, the Association and the Co-financiers of the Annual 
Work Plans and Budgets.  
3. 
Reform Coordination Unit 
(a) 
The Recipient shall establish and maintain at all times during 
 
the implementation of the Project, the Reform Coordination Unit under 
the Chief Secretary with adequate staffing and resources. 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the Reform 
Coordination Unit shall be responsible for, 
inter alia
:
(i) periodic review 
of Program design and implementation to identify any overlap, conflict, 
or areas of synergy; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of the progress  
of implementation of the respective MDA towards achieving the 
Project’s objectives; and (iii) acting as the secretariat to the Public Sector 
Reforms Steering Committee. 
4. 
Implementing Agencies
 
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Parts A.1 A.2 and A.3 of this 
Section, the Recipient shall ensure that PO-PSM is maintained at all 
times during the implementation of the Project with functions, staffing 
and resources satisfactory to the Association, for the purpose of ensuring 
the prompt and efficient implementation of the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph: (i) each MDA 
shall be responsible for identifying its respective needs and priorities, 
making the decision as to the activities for implementation, and the 
method for implementing such activities, financial management, 
procurement, monitoring, evaluation, reporting and accountability for the 
results of its respective activities, and participate in review of the 
Program design and implementation arrangements; and (ii) PO-PSM 
shall be responsible for the overall planning, coordination, financial 
management, procurement, monitoring, evaluation, reporting and 
accountability for the results of the Projects by the respective MDAs. 
B. Implementation 
Arrangements
1.
 Operations 
Manual
 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the arrangements 
and procedures set out in the Operations Manual (provided, however, that in case 
of any conflict between the arrangements and procedures set out in the 
Operations Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail) and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Operations Manual, if 
such amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
Memorandum of Understanding
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall implement the Subprograms in accordance with the 
arrangements and procedures set out in the Memorandum of 
Understanding; provided, however, that in case of any conflict between 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding and of this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
(b) 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Memorandum of 
Understanding, if such amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in the 
opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
3. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets; Subprograms 
(a) 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to Association for its joint 
approval with the Co-financiers, not later than June 1 of each year during 
the implementation of the Project, or such later date as the Association 
may agree in consultation with the Co-financiers, the Annual Work Plans 
and Budgets containing all proposed Subprograms to be carried out in 
the following Fiscal Year, modified in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, taking into account the Association’s comments and views 
on the matter. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause each MDA to implement, monitor and evaluate 
its respective Subprogram in accordance with the provisions set forth in 
this Agreement and in more detail in the Operations Manual, and shall 
not make or allow to be made any material change to any Subprogram 
included in the approved Annual Work Plans and Budgets without 
consultation and approval of the Association. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D.
 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out Part A.4 of the Project in accordance with the 
environmental, social and resettlement guidelines, rules and procedures defined 
in the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement 
Policy Framework and, if applicable, prepare and implement a Resettlement 
Action Plan in accordance with the RPF and in form and substance acceptable  
to the Association, defining a program of actions, measures and policies  
for compensation and resettlement of Affected Persons, including the magnitude 
of displacement, proposed compensation and resettlement arrangements, budget 
and cost estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, 
monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation 
of, and regular feedback on compliance with, the RAP. 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
2. 
The Recipient shall not amend or waive, or permit to be waived, the ESMF, RPF 
and RAP, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the 
Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of Part A.4 
of the Project. 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that: (i) all measures for carrying out the 
recommendations of the ESMF, RPF and RAP are taken in a timely manner; and 
(ii) the Project Reports referred to in Section II.A of this Schedule shall include 
adequate information on monitoring the measures defined in the ESMF, RPF and 
RAP. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the  
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below  
in paragraph 2.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of six months, and 
shall be furnished to the Association not later than sixty days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
2. 
The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph 1 consist of the 
following: 
(a) 
percentage of MDAs using performance management systems and 
structures (strategic plans, rapid results, results-based monitoring) to 
enhance service delivery; 
(b) 
annual exit rate (in percentage) of public servants with Masters degree  
or higher; 
(c) 
weighted average of actual salaries to target salaries in the medium-term 
pay policy;  
(d) 
percentage of MDAs using information, education and communication 
feedback from clients to improve service delivery; and 
(e) 
percentage of MDAs with operational/effective policy review processes 
that include stakeholders. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  15
-
14 -
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A.1 of this Section, the Recipient 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than 60 days after the end 
of six calendar months, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the six months, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with  
the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit  
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such 
period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 International 
Competitive 
Bidding. 
 
Except as otherwise provided 
 
in paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following methods 
of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used  
for goods and works under the circumstances specified in the Procurement Plan 
for each such method: (a) National Competitive Bidding; and (b) Shopping. 
 
Page  16
-
15 -
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may  
be used for consultants’ services under the circumstances specified in the 
Procurement Plan for each such method: (a) Quality Based Selection; 
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection Based 
on Consultants’ Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection; (f) Procedures  
set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection 
of Individual Consultants; and (g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection  
of Individual Consultants. 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
 
Recipient, the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the 
Association: (a) each contract for works
 
estimated to cost the equivalent  
of $500,000 or more procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding 
or National Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $250,000 or more procured on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided  
by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (d) each contract 
for consultants’ services provided by an individual estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services 
procured on single source basis. 
2. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  17
-
16 -
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
Subprograms 
26, 200,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the Association 
shall determine for each Fiscal Year 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
26, 200,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A.1 of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
Eligible Expenditures under the Category, unless: (i) the Memorandum of 
Understanding has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and the 
Association and has entered into effect in accordance with its terms; and 
(ii) the Annual Work Plan and Budget for the respective Fiscal Year has 
been approved by the Association in accordance with Part B.3 of Section 
I
of
this Schedule. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A.
 
Procurement Audits and Appointment of Procurement Auditors 
1.
 
The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the Effective Date, put in 
place arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, including the appointment of 
independent procurement auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, for reviewing the procurement 
of goods, works and consultants’ services financed under the Project, including 
the reviewing of procurement procedures and processes. 
2. 
The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the end of each Fiscal Year, 
or such later date as the Association may agree, furnish to the Association an 
audit report on the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services carried 
out under the Project, prepared by the independent procurement auditors referred 
to in Part A.1 of this Section. 
Page  18
-
17 -
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and  September 15: 
 
commencing March 15, 2018 to and 
including September 15, 2027 
1% 
commencing March 15, 2028 to and 
including September 15, 2047 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  19
-
18 -
 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of  
Part a.4 of the Project had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely  
affected; or (ii) right, title, interest in any house, land (including 
 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive 
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected. 
2. 
“Annual Work Plan and Budget” means the work plan and budget prepared 
annually by PO-PSM for the Project, in accordance with Section I.B.3 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Cabinet Secretariat” means an office within Office of the President charged with 
the responsibility for Secretariat to the Cabinet of the Recipient. 
6. 
“Co-financiers” means each and any co-financier (other than the Recipient and 
the Association) that has extended or is to extend the Co-financing (as hereinafter 
defined) to the Recipient pursuant to the Co-financing Agreement (as hereinafter 
defined), and that has signed the Memorandum of Understanding. 
7. 
“Co-financing” means, for the purposes of Section 6.02 (g) (ii) and (iii) and 
Section 6.06 (c) of the General Conditions, each and any credit or grant extended 
or to be extended to the Recipient by the Co-financiers for the purpose of 
assisting in the joint co-financing of Subprograms under the Project, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Co-financing Agreement and the 
Memorandum of Understanding. 
8. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means, for the purposes of Section 6.02 (g) (ii) and 
(iii) and Section 6.06 (c) of the General Conditions, each and any agreement 
entered or to be entered into between the Recipient and the Co-financiers 
providing for the Co-financing. 
 
Page  20
-
19 -
 
9. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
10. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the 
document of the Recipient dated October, 2005 as the said document may  
be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior concurrence  
of the Association, setting forth the modalities for environmental screening and 
procedures for the preparation and implementation of environmental assessments 
and management plans under Part A.4 of the Project pursuant to Section I.D.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
11. 
“Executive Agencies” means the executive agencies established pursuant to the 
Executive Agencies Act, No. 30 of 1997, of the laws of the Recipient. 
12. 
“e-Government” means a proposed system intended to increase application of 
information and communication technologies within the Recipient’s government. 
13. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 and 
ending on June 30 of the following year. 
14. 
 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
15. 
“MDAs” means the Recipient’s ministries, departments and agencies. 
16. 
“Memorandum of Understanding” means the memorandum of understanding 
between the Recipient, the Association and the Co-financiers, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, providing for common arrangements and procedures 
on procurement, disbursement, accounting, monitoring, reporting, auditing, 
coordination and exchange of information required for the implementation of the 
Project. 
17. 
“MKUKUTA” means the Recipient’s National Strategy for Growth and 
Reduction of Poverty, dated June 2005. 
18. 
“Operations Manual” means the Recipient’s manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, containing or referring to detailed arrangements 
and procedures for the Project, including: (i) institutional coordination and  
day-to-day execution of respective Subprogram activities; (ii) disbursement and 
financial management; (iii) procurement; (iv) monitoring, evaluation, reporting, 
and public information, education and communication; and (v) such other 
administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements and 
procedures as shall be required for the Project. 
Page  21
-
20 -
 
19. 
“PO-PSM” means the President’s Office – Public Service Management of the 
Recipient.  
20. 
“Presidential Commission on Salary Review for the Public Service” means  
a
commission established pursuant to a Presidential directive to operate during 
the period July to December 2006, and charged with the responsibility for review 
of salary and other benefits for employees of the public service. 
21. 
“PSRP Management Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 
I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
22. 
“Public Service Commission” means the commission established and operating 
pursuant to the Public Service Act No. 8 of 2002, of the laws of the Recipient. 
23. 
“Public Sector Reforms Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in 
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
24. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised  
in October, 2006. 
25. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated August 17, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
26. 
“Program” means the program set forth or referred to in the letter from  
the Recipient to the Association dated October 28, 1999, and as confirmed in the 
letter dated August 20, 2007, describing a set of objectives, policies and actions 
designed to ensure sustainable structural and institutional reform of the public 
service of the Recipient, and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program. 
27.  “Reform Coordination Unit means the unit referred to in 
 
Section 1.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
28. 
 
“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the plan referred to in 
 
Section I.D.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
29. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Resettlement Policy 
Framework of the Recipient dated October 2005, as the said framework may  
be amended and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior concurrence  
of the Association, setting forth the modalities for resettlement and compensation 
of Affected Persons under Part A.4 of the Project and referred to in  
Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  22
-
21 -
 
30.  
“Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar” means the government established and 
operating pursuant to the Constitution of the Recipient, as the administrative 
authority over the island of Zanzibar within the territory of the Recipient. 
31. 
“Subprogram” means a program of activities under the Project and included in 
the Annual Work Program and Budget. 
 
