The World Bank
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 50 Mirambo Street  Tel: (255-22) 2163200
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION         P.O. Box 2054             Fax: (255-22) 213295
Dar es SaaarTanzania
DOFFICIAL                 April 18, 2012
Hon. Mustafa H. Mkulo
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Honorable:
Tanzania: Performance Results and Accountability Project
(IDA Credit No. 4363-TA)
Amendment to the Financing Agreement
We refer to the Financing Agreement dated December 7, 2007, as amended to date between the
Association and the Recipient ("PRAP Agreement"), where the Association agreed to provide the
Recipient with a credit in an amount equivalent to twenty-six million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 26,200,000) to assist the Recipient in financing the Performance Results and
Accountability Project ("PRAP") described in Schedule 1 to the PRAP Agreement.
Pursuant to your letter dated February 15, 2012, requesting the Association to restructure the PRAP, I
am pleased to inform you that the Association has agreed to amend and restate the PRAP Agreement.
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing amended and restated PRAP Agreement on behalf
of the Recipient by countersigning and dating the two original copies of this letter and returning one
countersigned original to us. The amendment to the PRAP Agreement shall become effective as of the
date of countersignature of this letter.
Sincerely,
Philippe Dongier
Country Director for Tanzania, Uganda and Burundi
Africa Region


﻿AGREED:
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By      _
Authorized Representative
Name     ___     __
Title______
Date: ;~      Oa


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 4363-TA
Financing Agreement
(Amending and Restating)
(Performance Results and Accountability Project)
Between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
And
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated               ,2012


﻿-4-                        April 18, 2012
CREDIT NUMBER 4363 -TA
FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated [...], 2012, entered into between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA ("Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
("Association"). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree to amend and restate the
PRAP Agreement as of the Effective Date of this Agreement, to read as follows:
I   ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II- FINANCING
2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to nineteen million
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,700,000) (variously, "Credit" and
"Financing") to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
("Project").
2.02. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
2.04  The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall
be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.04.  The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.05.  The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.06.  The Payment Currency is the Dollar.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the
Program. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-                        April 18, 2012
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except
as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure that the
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS/TERMINATION
4.01  The Recipient has updated and adopted the Operations Manual in accordance with the
provisions of Section B 1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
4.02  For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for payment
obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. The Recipient's Representative is its Minister responsible for finance.
6.02. The Recipient's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Facsimile:
(255) 222 1177 90
6.03. The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable:            Telex:             Facsimile:
INDEVAS           248423 (MCI)       1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.


﻿-6-                         April 18, 2012
AGREED at Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year first above
written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By:
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By:
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-                        April 18, 2012
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient's efforts to enhance performance
management in the selected MDAs and to increase their responsiveness to clients. The
Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:     Systems and Policies to Support Service Delivery
Carrying out of Subprograms to support the Recipient's public service reform programs in
the following areas:
1.   Institutionalization of Performance Management Systems
Deepening application of the performance management system in the Selected MDAs,
including: (a) higher quality strategic plans ; (b) open performance review and appraisal
system; (c) client/ service delivery charters,; and (d) timely and quality monitoring,
evaluation and reporting by MDAs (e) training of trainers on implementing performance
contracts for Permanent Secretaries.
2.    Restructuring MDAs and Re-engineering Service Delivery
Encouraging  MDAs     to  decentralize  services  to  enhance  cost  efficiency
and effectiveness in service delivery, through: (a) creation of additional executive agencies;
and (b) re-engineering business processes.
3.    Promoting e-Government and Knowledge Management Systems
Setting-up: (a) an operational e-Government portal; and (b) an operational and equipped e-
Government agency within the public service, to enhance efficiency and quality of public
service.
4.    Improving Record Management
Increasing transparency and efficiency in management of records and data, including (a)
operationalising the upgraded HCMIS in all MDAs (b) upgrading manual record
management systems and facilities in Select MDAs(c) supporting the construction and
equipping of a National Records Center.
5.    Participative and Evidence Based Policy Development
Mentoring and training of staff in two Ministries to develop participative and evidence based
policies.


﻿-8-                       April 18, 2012
Part B:     Human Resources Management, Pay, Incentives, Leadership and Capacity
Development
Carrying out of Subprograms for:
1.    Pay, Incentives and Rewards
(a) Carrying out studies to implement the recommendations of the Presidential Commission
on   Salary Review for the Public Service, including the technical application of the
recommendations; (b) developing and implementing a pay and incentives strategy which (i)
rationalizes incentives and allowances to serve in hard to serve areas to ensure equity in the
distribution of human resources, (ii) links pay and incentives to performance, (iii) ensures
adequacy of compensation levels to attract and retain qualified professionals within the given
fiscal constraints and (iv) establishes realistic staffing norms for the distribution of human
resources.
2. Strengthening and Decentralizing Human Resources Management Processes and Systems
(a) Training staff in all MDAs in the use of the HCMIS (b) support all MDAs which have
formulated their training plans, based on Training Needs Assessment, to implement their
training plans (c) assist Selected MDAs to formulate human resource plans including training
plans and succession plans.
3.    Managing Diversity
Supporting affirmative measures in support of disadvantaged groups (women and physically
challenged persons) including: (a) relevant staff to attain Masters Degrees in all MDAs; and
(b) implementing diversity guidelines in the Selected MDAs.
4.    Strengthening the capacity of local training institutions.
5.    Supervising the implementation of the guidelines for management of HIV/AIDS in
Selected MDAs.
6.    Organizing and delivering top leadership training programs
Part C:     Change Management and Reform Coordination
Carrying out Subprograms for:
1.    Supporting Implementation of the Project and Program
(a) Developing the capacity of PO-PSM for oversight, coordination, facilitation and
leadership for implementation of the Project; (b) Supporting minor rehabilitation and
retooling (equipment and furniture) for POPSM offices; and (c) Supporting-and enhancing
day to day administration and management of the Project, including strengthening the
capacity for procurement and financial management.


﻿-9-                       April 18, 2012
2.    Strengthening the Capacity for Reforms Coordination
Providing Technical Assistance for program coordination, financial management and
procurement to support the efficient functioning of the Reform Coordination Unit in the
office of the Chief Secretary.
3.    Assisting the Initial Development of Public Service Reforms for the Revolutionary
Government of Zanzibar
Carrying out diagnostic work on public sector reform and/or policy development, and
supporting the implementation of low-cost identified interventions such as records
management including provision of the necessary equipment.
Part D:     Accountability and Responsiveness to the Public
Carrying out of Subprograms to support responsiveness and accountability in the public
service in the following areas:
1.    Strengthening the demand side of accountability for service delivery
Supporting: (a) feedback from citizens and civil society organizations and (b) ensuring
implementation of the complaints handling system in Selected MDAs.
2.    Developing and operationalizing a framework for ethical conduct in the public service
(a) Making the internal systems for exercising oversight over ethical conduct more effective
in Selected MDAs and (b) Monitoring the responsiveness of the established disciplinary
process to cases of violation of the Code of Ethics in selected MDAs.


﻿-10-                       April 18, 2012
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I.  Institutional and Other Implementation Arrangements
A.    Institutional Arrangements
1.    Public Sector Reforms Steering Committee
(a)   The Recipient shall maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, a Public
Sector Reforms Steering Committee chaired by the Chief Secretary, and including in its
membership the Permanent Secretaries of all MDAs, with a composition, mandate and
resources satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the Public Sector Reforms
Steering Committee shall meet at least two times in a Fiscal Year, and shall be responsible
for, inter alia: (i) policy guidance, and facilitating coordination of the activities among
MDAs; and (ii) reviewing the progress made towards achieving the Project's objectives.
2.    PSRP Management Committee
(a)   The  Recipient shall maintain, at all times during   the  implementation
of the Project the PSRP Management Committee: (i) chaired by the Permanent Secretary
POPSM, and including in its membership the Deputy Permanent Secretaries, or senior
officers appointed by the Permanent Secretaries of the MDAs; and (ii) with a composition,
mandate and resources satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the PSRP Management
Committee shall be responsible for: (i) technical coordination of the Project; (ii) providing
overall strategic guidance, monitoring and reviewing progress and results of program
implementation; and (iii) reviewing and endorsing for joint approval by the Recipient, the
Association and the Co-financiers Annual Work Plans and Budgets.
3.    Reform Coordination Unit
(a)   The     Recipient    shall    maintain    at     all    times    during
the implementation of the Project, the Reform Coordination Unit under the Chief Secretary
with adequate staffing and resources.
(b)   Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the Reform Coordination
Unit shall be responsible for, inter alia: (i) periodic review of Program design and
implementation to identify any overlap, conflict, or areas of synergy; (ii) monitoring and
evaluation of the progress of implementation of the respective MDA towards achieving the
Project's objectives; and (iii) acting as the secretariat to the Public Sector Reforms Steering
Committee.
Implementing Agencies
(a)   Without limitation upon the provisions of Parts [A.1 A.2 and A.3] of this Section, the
Recipient shall ensure that POPSM is maintained at all times during the implementation of


﻿-ll-                       April 18, 2012
the Project with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, for the
purpose of ensuring the prompt and efficient implementation of the Project.
(b)   Without limitation to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the POPSM shall be
responsible for day-to-day implementation of the Project, as detailed in the Project Manual,
including, inter alia, planning, coordination, financial management, procurement,
monitoring, evaluation, reporting and accountability for the results of the Projects.
B.    Implementation Arranaements
1.    Operations Manual
The Recipient shall:
(a)   update the Operations Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association
setting out in detail the rules, procedures, standards and guidelines for the implementation of
the Project, including: incorporating the monitoring indicators and such other arrangements
as shall be required for the Project; and
(b) shall carry out the Project in accordance with the arrangements and procedures set out in
the Operations Manual (provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the
arrangements and procedures set out in the Operations Manual and the provisions of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail) and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, in writing shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the
Operations Manual.
2.    Memorandum of Understanding
(a)   The Recipient shall implement the Subprograms in accordance with the arrangements
and procedures set out in the Memorandum of Understanding; provided, however, that in
case of any conflict between the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding and of this
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend,
abrogate or waive any provision of the Memorandum of Understanding, if such amendment,
abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the
implementation of the Project.
3.    Annual Work Plans and Budgets; Subprograms
(a)   The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to Association for its joint approval with the
Co-financiers, not later than June 1 of each year during the implementation of the Project, or
such later date as the Association may agree in consultation with the Co-financiers, the
Annual Work Plans and Budgets containing all proposed Subprograms to be carried out in the
following Fiscal Year, modified in a manner satisfactory to the Association, taking into
account the Association's comments and views on the matter.
(b)   The Recipient shall cause POPSM  to implement, monitor and evaluate each
Subprogram in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Agreement and in more detail
in the Operations Manual, and shall not make or allow to be made any material change to any


﻿-12-                       April 18, 2012
Subprogram included in the approved Annual Work Plans and Budgets without consultation
and approval of the Association.
C.    Anti-Corruption
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D.    Environmental and Social Safeguards
1.    The Recipient shall carry out Parts A.4 and C.1 of the Project in accordance with the
environmental, social and resettlement guidelines, rules and procedures defined in the
Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework
and, if applicable, prepare and implement a Resettlement Action Plan in accordance with the
RPF and in form and substance acceptable to the Association, defining a program of actions,
measures and policies for compensation and resettlement of Affected Persons, including the
magnitude of displacement, proposed compensation and resettlement arrangements, budget
and cost estimates, and sources of funding, together with adequate institutional, monitoring
and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular
feedback on compliance with, the RAP.
2.    The Recipient shall not amend or waive, or permit to be waived, the ESMF, RPF and
RAP.
3.    The Recipient shall ensure that: (i) all measures for carrying out the recommendations
of the ESMF, RPF and RAP are taken in a timely manner; and (ii) the Project Reports
referred to in Section II.A of this Schedule shall include adequate information on monitoring
the measures defined in the ESMF, RPF and RAP.
Section II.  Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A.    Project Reports
1.    The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions
and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Project Manual. Each Project Report shall
cover the period of six months, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than sixty
days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B.    Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1.    The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions.
2.    Without limitation on the provisions of Part A. 1 of this Section, the Recipient shall
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than 60 days after the end of six calendar
months, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the six months, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-13-                        April 18, 2012
3.    The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not
later than six months after the end of such period.
Section III. Procurement
A.    General
1.    Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements
set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Schedule.
2.    Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, and
with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, refer to
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
B.    Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.    International  Competitive  Bidding.    Except   as  otherwise  provided
in paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding.
2.    Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following methods of
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for goods and works
under the circumstances specified in the Procurement Plan for each such method: (a) National
Competitive Bidding; and (b) Shopping.
C.    Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1.    Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2.    Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following methods
of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for consultants'
services under the circumstances specified in the Procurement Plan for each such method: (a)
Quality Based Selection;
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection Based on
Consultants' Qualifications; (e) Single-source Selection; (f) Procedures set forth in
paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual


﻿-14-                       April 18, 2012
Consultants; and (g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
D.    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Association's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Association
Section IV.  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A.    General
1.    The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice
to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
below.
2.    The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the allocations of the amounts of
the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for
Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Category               Amount of the       Percentage of Expenditures to be
Financing Allocated  Financed
(expressed in SDR)
(1)   Works,   Goods, 19,700.000           Such   percentage   of   Eligible
Consulting    Services,                    Expenditures as the Association shall
Training and Operating                     determine for each Fiscal Year in the
Costs in  Subprograms                      Annual Work Plans and Budgets
under the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT           19,700,000          ____________
B.    Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
I.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A. 1 of this Section no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a)   for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   Eligible Expenditures under the Category, unless: (i) the Memorandum  of
Understanding has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and the Association and has
entered into effect in accordance with its terms; and (ii) the Annual Work Plan and Budget
for the respective Fiscal Year has been approved by the Association in accordance with Part
B.3 of Section I of this Schedule.
2.    The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.


﻿-15-                       April 18, 2012
Section V.  Other Undertakings
A.    Procurement Audits and Appointment of Procurement Auditors
1.    The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the Effective Date, put in place
arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, including the appointment of independent
procurement auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the provisions of
Section III of this Schedule, for reviewing the procurement of goods, works and consultants'
services financed under the Project, including the reviewing of procurement procedures and
processes.
2.    The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the end of each Fiscal Year, or
such later date as the Association may agree, furnish to the Association an audit report on the
procurement of goods, works and consultants' services carried out under the Project, prepared
by the independent procurement auditors referred to in Part A.1 of this Section.


﻿-16-                           April 18, 2012
SCHEDULE3
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due                          Principal Amount of the Credit repayable
(expressed as a percentage)*
On each March 15 and September 15:
commencing March 15, 2018 to and          1%
including September 15, 2027
commencing March 15, 2028 to and          2%
including September 15, 2047
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, except as the
Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General Conditions.


﻿-17-                        April 18, 2012
APPENDIX
Definitions
1.    "Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of Part a.4 of the
Project had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title,
interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other
fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to
productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected.
2.    "Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the work plan and budget prepared annually
by PO-PSM for the Project, in accordance with Section I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3.    "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006.
4.    "Cabinet Secretariat" means an office within Office of the President charged with the
responsibility for Secretariat to the Cabinet of the Recipient.
5.    "Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
6.    "Code of Ethics and Conduct" means the Recipient's code of conduct promulgated
and adopted by the Recipient in 2005 and applicable to all government personnel of the
Recipient.
7.    "Co-financiers" means each and any co-financier (other than the Recipient and the
Association) that has extended or is to extend the Co-financing (as hereinafter defined) to the
Recipient pursuant to the Co-financing Agreement (as hereinafter defined), and that has
signed the Memorandum of Understanding.
8.    "Co-financing" means, for the purposes of Section 6.02 (g) (ii) and (iii) and Section
6.06 (c) of the General Conditions, each and any credit or grant extended or to be extended to
the Recipient by the Co-financiers for the purpose of assisting in the joint co-financing of
Subprograms under the Project, in accordance with the provisions of the Co-financing
Agreement and the Memorandum of Understanding.
9.    "Co-financing Agreement" means, for the purposes of Section 6.02 (g) (ii) and (iii)
and Section 6.06 (c) of the General Conditions, each and any agreement entered or to be
entered into between the Recipient and the Co-financiers providing for the Co-financing.
10.   "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October 2006.
11.   "Environmental and Social Management Framework" or "ESMF" means the
document of the Recipient dated October, 2005 as the said document may be amended and/or
supplemented from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Association, setting forth
the modalities for environmental screening and procedures for the preparation and


﻿-18-                        April 18, 2012
implementation of environmental assessments and management plans under Part A.4 of the
Project pursuant to Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
12.   "e-Government" means a proposed system intended to increase application of
information and communication technologies within the Recipient's government.
13.   "Fiscal Year" means the Recipient's fiscal year commencing on July I and ending on
June 30 of the following year.
14.   "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association General
Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15,
2006).
15.   "HCMIS" means Human Capital Management Information System.
16.   "MDAs" means the Recipient's ministries, departments and agencies.
17.   "Memorandum of Understanding" means the memorandum of understanding between
the Recipient, the Association and the Co-financiers, dated January 2008, as the same may
be amended from time to time, providing for common arrangements and procedures on
procurement, disbursement, accounting, monitoring, reporting, auditing, coordination and
exchange of information required for the implementation of the Project.
18.   "Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs arising under the Project on
account of Project coordination, implementation and monitoring activities, including office
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance costs, utilities, communication charges, per
diems and travel allowances, but excluding the salaries of the Recipient's civil service and
sitting allowances.
19.   "Operations Manual" means the Recipient's manual, dated July 30, 2007 in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, containing or referring to detailed arrangements and
procedures for implementing and managing the Project.
20.    "POPSM" means the President's Office - Public Service Management of the
Recipient.
21.   "Presidential Commission on Salary Review  for the Public Service" means
a commission established pursuant to a Presidential directive to operate during the period
July to December 2006, and charged with the responsibility for review of salary and other
benefits for employees of the public service.
22.   "PRSP II" means the Recipient's Public Service Reform Program, as amended on
February 6, 2012
23.   "PSRP Management Committee" means the committee referred to in Section I.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
24.   "Public Service Reforms Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-19-                       April 18, 2012
25.   "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans
and  IDA    Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in  May    2004  and  revised
in October, 2006.
26.   "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project, dated
August 17, 2007, .and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time
in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
27.   "Reform Coordination Unit means the unit referred to in Section 1.A.3 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
28.    "Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means the plan referred to in Section I.D. 1 (a)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
29.   "Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Resettlement Policy
Framework of the Recipient dated October 2005, as the said framework may be amended
and/or supplemented from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Association, setting
forth the modalities for resettlement and compensation of Affected Persons under Part A.4 of
the Project and referred to in Section I.D. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
30.   "Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar" means the government established and
operating pursuant to the Constitution of the Recipient, as the administrative authority over
the island of Zanzibar within the territory of the Recipient.
31.   "Selected MDAs" means the following list of MDAs, as such list may be amended
from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Association: (i) Ministry of
Education and Vocational Training; (ii)2Ministry of Health and Social Welfare; (iii) Ministry
of Agriculture, Food Security, and Cooperatives; (iv) Ministry of Water; (v) Ministry of
Lands, Housing, and Human Settlements; (vi) Ministry of Industries and Trade; (vii) Prime
Minister's Office- Regional Administration and Local Government; (viii) Ministry of Works;
(ix) Ministry of Labor and Employment; (x) POPSM; (xi) Public Service Commission; (xii)
Public Service Recruitment Board; (xiii) Tanzania Food and Drugs Agency; and (xiv)
Business Registration and Licensing Agency.
32.   "Subprogram" means a program of activities under the Project and included in the
Annual Work Program and Budget.
33.   "Training" means the cost associated with the training, workshops, study tours and
exchange programs, based on Consolidated Annual Work Plansand Budgets approved by the
Association pursuant to Section I.B.3. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for reasonable
expenditures (other than expenditures for consultants' services), including: (i) travel, room,
board and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their
training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (ii) course fees; (iii) training facility
rentals; and (iv) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution
expenses.


