                                                                                                      93650
Tanzania: Country Results Profile                                                                  September 25, 2012




 Tanzania: Sustaining and Sharing Economic Growth


Overview
For the last decade, Tanzania has sustained high economic growth driven by structural reforms
and improvements in economic performance and service delivery. Growth in gross domestic
product (GDP) has averaged between 5 and 7 percent a year since 2000. Access to primary
education has increased dramatically, along with solid increases in net enrollment rates. Under-
five child mortality has declined by more than a third since 2000.



Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA
Tanzania’s solid growth record has not led to a
corresponding reduction in poverty. The 2007
Household Budget Survey revealed
disappointing results in poverty reduction: the
poverty headcount ratio dropped only marginally
from 35.6 percent in 2001 to 33.6 percent in
2007. Tanzania is therefore not on track to meet
the basic needs and the food security MDG.
However, data indicates a relatively large
concentration of the population around the
poverty line, suggesting that achieving the MDG
remains feasible.

Approach                                                           More Results
Since 1995, the International Development Association (IDA)
has provided more than US$5.5 billion to Tanzania in loans
and grants. About 45 percent of IDA's support over the last
three years has been provided through development policy

                                                                   $183
operations (general budget support) focusing on increasing
growth, improving the efficiency of public financial
management, and improving social service delivery. IDA has
also provided investment lending for private and financial
sector development, energy, roads, rail, water, rural
development, natural resource management, community and
                                                                   million
                                                                   since 2000 to improve
local government development, and public sector reform. IDA        transportation.
provided considerable support to the government in the
preparation of its first and second Poverty Reduction Strategy
Papers in 2000 and 2004. To deepen the understanding and
commitment to fiscal reform, IDA helped establish an annual        MORE INFORMATION
Public Expenditure Review to set priorities within an overall       Country Website
expenditure ceiling, as well as to monitor progress and
                                                                    Country Brief
assess results. Based on this analysis, the government
implements a strategic budget allocation system, which links       Country Assistance Strategy
budget allocations with the country's development goals.           Data and Statistics
Since 2005 the process has been widened to include a
country financial accountability assessment and a country
procurement assessment.

Results
Since 2003 IDA and 13 other donors have assisted Tanzania through general budget support,
combined with policy advice. This approach has contributed to doubling per capita spending in
education, health, water, agriculture, roads, judiciary, and combating HIV/ AIDS, as noted in
the poverty reduction strategy. This range of support has led to significant achievements:



      IDA has channeled more than US$183 million since 2000 to improve transportation.
      During this period the percentage of major arteries and trunk roads in good and fair
      condition has increased along with regular funding provided for the maintenance of
      roads by local governments. As of March 2010, the percentage of trunk and regional
      roads in good and fair condition had increased to 88 percent from 51 percent in 2000.

      IDA investments in education (through both individual projects and through budget
      support) have focused on sustainable reforms to widen access to schooling, while
      improving quality and relevance. In education, net primary enrollment is up to 84 percent
      in 2007 from 59 percent in 2000/01. Bank support to a series of education programs
      combined with removal of school fees at primary school level has played a critical role in
      raising enrollment rates. The government's share of the recurrent budget devoted to the
      education sector has reached 28.5 percent, higher than many low-income African
      countries.

      IDA has supported Tanzania's efforts to increase access to and improve the efficiency of
      health services with policy advice and knowledge transfers, as well as financing. An
      innovative public-private partnership has increased the domestic production and use of
      bed-nets to prevent malaria. Tanzania's reductions in infant and child mortality are
      among the greatest in Sub-Saharan Africa. Infant mortality has fallen by nearly 50
      percent in Tanzania, from 99 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1999 to 51 in 2010. This
      suggests that the country can reach the relevant Millennium Development Goal (MDG)
      by 2015. Under-5 mortality has also declined, from 146 deaths per 1,000 live births in
      1999 to 81 in 2010, again bringing the MDG target within reach. The recently
      implemented Under-5 bed net campaign - to which the World Bank contributed 2.4
      million nets - plus the increased emphasis on immunization coverage, make Tanzania's
      child health related MDG targets look even more attainable. Equitable access to health
      services relates to government's focus on improved primary health care; and to the
      growing volume of health basket funds from many partners, including the World Bank,
      going to frontline health services.

Voices


     When CIUP came to Sandali a tarmac road was built right by
   my house. Now, I can rent out rooms for businesses and work
   directly out of my house.
                                                               — Pili Matimbwe



Toward the Future
To assist Tanzania in meeting its development goals, IDA will continue to actively coordinate
with partners and participate in the joint development dialogue with the government. Going
forward, the lending program for the remainder of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
period (the current CAS ends on June 30, 2011) will largely focus on the infrastructure and
human development sectors. In addition, the Bank will continue its strategic policy dialogue
through general budget support, analytic and advisory activities, and its existing portfolio.
Tanzania’s next CAS will be presented to the World Bank Board of Executive Directors in June
2011. Consultations have been carried out regionally and with selected stakeholders, including
private sector representatives, civil society, key state organs and institutions, such as the
Judiciary, the National Audit Office, and Central Bank of Tanzania.
