Report No. PID9176
Project Name                     Zambia-Railway Restructuring Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       ZMPE3227
Borrower(s)                      The Government of the Republic of Zambia
(GRZ)
Environment Category             C
Date this PID Prepared           April 25, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         June 2000
Loan Negotiations                August 2000
Board Presentation               September 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      The geographical setting of Zambia makes ZR a critical link in the
logistic chain for international traffic of Zambia, the Democratic Republic of
Congo (DRC), and now also of Tanzania and Uganda. Much of this traffic
originates from or is destined to the ports in South Africa, Mozambique,
Tanzania, and Angola but quite a lot is inter-country regional traffic. ZR has
a total track length, all single track, of 1,273 Kms, out of which 848 Kms is
main line. The ZR rail system links with the Zimbabwe rail network at
Livingstone/Victoria Falls and onwards to the ports in South Africa and
Mozambique, Tanzania-Zambia Railways (TAZARA) at Kapiri Mposhi and onwards to
the port of Dar-es-Salaam, and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) at
Sakania.
2.      The traffic volumes of ZR have been falling for many years.    Freight
traffic exceeded 6 million tons in 1975, representing over 1.4 billion net ton-
kilometers (ntkms). By 1988, the traffic had declined to 4.5 million tons, and
by 1998 to 1.4 million tons. This precipitous decline in ZR's performance can
be attributed to the inefficiency, excess employment and low productivity,
waste, lethargy of operations, lack of incentives, and inadequate
accountability normally associated with the railways managed as parastatals.
The performance worsened even more rapidly after the liberalization of the
Zambian economy during the 1990s, in particular the liberalization of the
transport sector which resulted in demand for high quality service and
emergence of a powerful trucking sector. Traffic on offer also declined due
to decline in Zambia's economy, Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines's (ZCCM's)
performance, collapse of DRC's economy, and slowing down of the economy of the
neighboring Zimbabwe. The declining traffic and revenues and the continuing
retention of staff at an unnecessarily high level and, consequently, the
resulting high costs of operations have left ZR in a financially precarious
condition. Inadequate maintenance has led to ZR being a worn out system.
Derailments are an almost daily occurrence and ZR has a bad record of
accidents. Vandalism of signals has badly affected traffic control. As a
result, the railways are failing to carry all the traffic on offer.



3.      In spite of the deterioration of the ZR system in recent years, quick
revitalization of ZR is possible. As a first step, an expatriate management
group, financed by SIDA, commenced work in March 1998 and has already taken
some steps in this direction. Within two years, staff has been reduced from
about 5,500 to a little less than 3,300. The morale of the remaining staff has
shown a visible improvement. Locomotive and rolling stock availability has
improved. As a result, the declining trend of traffic has been reversed. The
freight traffic for the year 2000 is projected at 1.8 million tons but is
likely to be around 1.65 million tons. A specially designed and speedily-
executed package of about US$5.6 million under the proposed ZRRP would be
targeted at further improvement of critical inputs, viz., track, locomotives,
and rolling stock. Execution of three or four such specifically designed and
targeted packages in the course of the next few years would make the system
reliable enough for handling all the traffic on offer.     However, for
sustainability, radical restructuring of ZR and its privatization is urgently
needed.
4.      The main thrust of the Government's restructuring strategy is to seek
private sector participation in the operation and management of the railways,
mainly through private concessioning of infrastructure and selling/leasing of
locomotives and rolling stock. To facilitate concessioning, the GRZ strategy
is also to further reduce the number of employees in the railways to whatever
number is required by the concessionaires (estimated at no more than 1,650).
Establishing a regulatory framework and restructuring/winding up of the
existing Zambia Railways would also be essential as a consequence of the
concessioning of the railways.
Objectives
The Project development objective is to enable ZR, through restructuring and
privatization, to substantially increase its operating efficiency, reduce its
cost of operations, and configure its freight services and tariffs to meet
customers' requirements and expectations, and, consequently, to increase its
share of the local, international, and transit freight traffic. Efforts of a
privatized and efficiently-functioning ZR to increase its share of freight
traffic are expected to result in:
Heightening of rail-road competition and, consequently, overall reduction in
transport costs leading to the Zambian economy becoming progressively more
competitive and growth-oriented.
Balancing of the respective share of freight traffic between rail and road
modes and a significant reduction of traffic on road, particularly the long-
haul and bulk traffic, leading to a significant reduction in the ideal
budgetary allocation of funds for the maintenance, rehabilitation and
expansion of the road network in Zambia. (Note: Due to funding constraints,
the budgetary allocations for road maintenance and rehabilitation in the
recent years have been grossly inadequate. As cost recovery improves as a
result of mechanisms being put in place under the Road Maintenance Project,
the budgetary allocations for road maintenance are expected to increase, but
the levels to which these need to increase would be much lower.)
The ZR-linked international rail corridors becoming more efficient and cost
effective leading to more trade between countries along these corridors, viz.,
South Africa, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Zaire, Botswana, Uganda (after the
- 2 -



setting up of inter-gauge transshipment facilities in Tanzania), and Angola
(after the reopening of the Lobito rail link);
ZR becoming financially self-sustaining and being in a position to reward its
capital providers;
GRZ being able to reduce its budgetary deficit through receipt of receipt of
concession fees, taxes, and hire and lease charges; and
Zambia generating more foreign exchange through shift of considerable transit
and international traffic from mostly foreign road hauliers to ZR.
Description
6.      The project would consist of six main components:
Railway Concessioning
Staff Rationalization
Staff Redundancy
Unfunded Pension Scheme Contribution
Staff Retraining and Redeployment
Social Mitigation
Assets Rehabilitation and Environment Mitigation Works
Regulatory and Legal Framework
Winding Up/Restructuring ZR
MoCT Strengthening
7.      The Project would finance: (a) advisory services that are proposed to be
provided under the Project for implementing the agreed concessioning proposal,
establishing a regulatory framework and strengthening the Ministry of
Communications and Transport; (b) severance payments for the retrenched staff,
as well as staff retraining and assistance in redeployment effort; (c)
targeted investments in track, locomotives, and wagons; and (d) advisory
services for the restructuring/winding up of Zambia Railways Limited after
concessioning.
Financing
8.      The proposed restructuring is expected to cost US$33 million. The
Restructuring Plan proposes that ZR would cover US$2 million and the rest
would be financed through an IDA Credit in the amount of US$31.0 million
Project Preparation and Implementation
9.      The details of the program were worked out on the basis of the
recommendations of three studies, which have since been completed: (a)
Private sector Participation Study; (b) Assets Valuation Study; and (c)
Environment Audit. In addition, a social impact assessment study is about to
commence. Considerable work was done by ZR towards identifying investment
needs, developing a staff rationalization plan, and estimating staff
retrenchment costs.
Project Sustainability
11.     The long-term sustainability of the rail system in Zambia would be
considerably enhanced under the Project, which aims at: (a) long-term private
concessionsing of Zambia railways; (b) reorienting ZR's remaining operations
to their most competitive and productive advantage; (c) transparent selection
- 3 -



of the private concessionaire in order to optimize the value of the
concession; (d) addressing implementation issues in sufficient detail in the
concession agreements so as to preempt any possible legal action; and (e)
setting up of a credible, independent, and fast system for the settlement of
disputes.
13.     Compared with the alternative of continuing with ZR as it is and relying
solely on normal retirement and attrition, the concessioning of the railways
and the accelerated downsizing will pay for itself through increased traffic,
reduced labor costs year by year as well as other operating costs and its
beneficial effect on the climate within the enterprise for change and
innovation.
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
14.      One important lesson from previous Bank involvements has been that a
parastatal framework within which most railways currently operate in sub-
Saharan Africa is inappropriate for an environment that is progressively
becoming more competitive. Private sector participation in the operation and
management of railways is considered essential for improving their performance
and making them operate as financially self-sustaining entities. Second, the
railways are unlikely to become financially viable unless surplus staff in the
railways, generally 50- or more, is retired/retrenched.    Third, investments in
infrastructure, locomotives, rolling stock, and communication systems should
better be left to the concessionaires in order to reduce the time and cost of
execution. Fourth, it is better that the tasks of running the railways and
restructuring it be separated and managed by separate entities. Under the
project, Zambia Privatisation Agency (ZPA) will implement the concessioning
part while ZR will continue to manage the railways. Finally, a change in the
legislative framework affecting the railways is important for successful
restructuring.
Poverty Category
15.     Not applicable.   However, the Project would require the concessionaires:
(a) to be sensitive to the provision of rail services to the poor and also be
involved in the social programs at the community level wherever possible. The
concessionaires would also be required to be actively involved in the
containment of aids and provision of aids-related attention to the staff and
families.
Environmental Aspects
16.     An environment audit has drawn attention to inadequate compliance with
environmental standards. The Project would support: (i) complete liquidation
of the past accumulated liabilities; and (ii) ensuring that the concession
agreements require the concessionaires to fully comply with all safety,
health, environment-related legislation and standards.     neglect t applicable.
Program Objective Categories
17.     None.
Contact Points:
-4-



Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Yash Pal Kedia, AFTT1
Telephone: (202) 473-4544
Fax:        (202) 473-8326
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 26, 2000.
- 5 -



