                             Document of
                          The World Bank




                                                     Report No: 32520

                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (IDA-34330 TF-23134)

                                ON A

                               CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21 MILLION
                     (US$27 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA

                               FOR A

                  RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT




                          DECEMBER 20, 2005




Transport
Africa Region

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective )

                   Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (ZMK)
 ZMK 3,330 on September 20, 2000 = US$ 1
                           US$ 1 = ZMK 4,700 on May 15, 2005



                          FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1    December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DRC          Democratic Republic of Congo
ECZ          Environmental Council of Zambia
EMP          Environment Management Plan
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
GIR          Government Inspector of Railways
GRZ          Government of the Republic of Zambia
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
MCT          Ministry of Communications and Transport
MFED         Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MLSS         Ministry of Labor and Social Security
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NPV          Net Present Value
NRZ          National Railway Zimbabwe
NSSN         National Social Safety Net
PHRD         Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
RSZ          Railways Systems of Zambia
RWUZ         Railway Workers Union of Zambia
SADC         Southern Africa Development Community
SATCCSouthern Africa Transport and Communications Commission
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SIDA         Swedish International Development and Cooperation Agency
SOE          State Owned Enterprise
TA           Technical Assistant
TAZARA       Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority
ZPA          Zambia Privatization Agency
ZRL          Zambia Railways Limited
ZR           Zambia Railways
ZRRP         Zambia Railways Restructuring Project

                  Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                Country Director     Hartwig Schafer
                 Sector Manager      C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Davies B. Makasa

                                           ZAMBIA
                   ZAMBIA RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. MAP IBRD 31135 (Revised)                                                31
Annex 9. Partner Comments                                                        32
Annex 10. Additional Information                                                 38

Project ID: P003227                                                  Project Name: ZAMBIA RAILWAYS
                                                                     RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Team Leader: Davies Bwalya Makasa                                    TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 20, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: ZAMBIA RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-34330; TF-23134
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (67%); Railways (25%); Central government
                            administration (8%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/13/2000                                     Effective: 01/15/2001                12/22/2000
     Appraisal: 05/08/2000                                         MTR: 06/30/2002
      Approval: 11/16/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ)/Ministry of Communications and
                                           Transport (MCT); Zambia Railways Limited (ZRL); Zambia Privatisation Agency
                                           (ZPA); and National Social Safety Net (NSSN).
                      Other Partners:      Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Hartwig Schafer                                Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Team Leader at ICR:             Davies Bwalya Makasa                           Yash Pal Kedia
ICR Primary Author:             Alberto Nogales


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective was to enable Zambia Railways (ZR) through restructuring and
privatization to: (i) increase operating efficiency; (ii) reduce cost of operations; and (iii) make freight
services and tariffs competitive, and, consequently, increase the railways' share of the local, international,
and transit freight traffic. Additionally, efforts of a privatized and efficient ZR to increase its share of
freight traffic were expected to result in:

    Ø Heighteningofrail-roadcompetitionand,consequently,overallreductionintransportcosts,
         leading to the Zambian economy becoming globally more competitive and growth oriented;
    Ø Asignificantreductionoftrafficonroad,particularlythelong-haulandbulktraffic,and,therefore,
         in the budgetary allocation of funds for the maintenance, rehabilitation and expansion of the road
         network in Zambia as well as in the level of pollution and congestion;
    Ø TheZR-linkedinternationalcorridorsbecomingmoreefficientandcosteffective,leadingtomore
         trade between countries along these corridors, viz., South Africa, Mozambique, Zimbabwe,
         Zambia, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Botswana, Uganda (after setting up the
         inter-gauge trans-shipment facilities in Tanzania), and Angola (after the reopening of the Lobito
         rail link);
    Ø ZRbecomingfinanciallyself-sustainingandbeinginapositiontorenewitsassetsandrewardits
         capital providers;
    Ø GovernmentoftheRepublicofZambia(GRZ)beingabletoreduceitsbudgetarydeficitthrough
         receipt of concession fees, taxes, and hire and lease charges; and
    Ø Zambiageneratingmoreforeignexchangethroughashiftofconsiderabletransitandinternational
         traffic from mostly foreign road haulers to ZR.

The project was in line with the 1999 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which in consultation with GRZ
was designed to focus on:

    Ø Removalofconstraintstosustainableanddiversifiedeconomicgrowth;
    Ø Improvedgovernance;and
    Ø Betteraccesstobasicservicesanddirectpovertyinterventions.

Excessively high transportation costs were particularly noted as the major impediment to private sector
investment and growth. The Government particularly identified ZR as one of the priority state owned
enterprises (SOEs) requiring urgent attention. The railway was fast losing its market share because of poor
market orientation, poor and unpredictable quality of service, and erosion of its operating capacity caused
by inadequate maintenance, and ever increasing competition from the road haulers. Traffic levels sharply
declined during the 1990s, from 1,072 million net-ton-kilometers in 1993 to 540 million net-ton-kilometers
in 1999. In order to reverse this trend, the Government decided to concession the railways in March 2000.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project components were identified on the basis of: experience gained during the World Bank Fourth
Railway Project; the Private Sector Participation study; in-house Social Impact Assessment Study of the
staff retrenched by Zambia Railways Limited (ZRL) prior to concessioning; Environmental Impact
Assessment and Audit; and the Asset Valuation Study. The components are discussed below.



                                                        - 2 -

(a)       Railway Concession (US$1.1 million, 3.0% of Total Project Cost)

This was the principal component of the Project which was designed to ensure successful concessioning of
the railways. The underlying hypothesis being that the development objectives can be achieved only through
private sector participation in the operation and management of the railways.

At the time of project preparation, the Privatization Options Study had already been completed under a
PHRD Grant. Based on the recommendations of the Study, Cabinet approved going ahead with the
designing of the concession and preparation of the bidding documents.

This component was implemented by the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA) with the help of a TA who
provided the transaction advisory services. The bidders had the option to bid separately for any of the
following packages:

    Ø Short-haulinter-minefreightoperationsalongwiththerelatedinfrastructure;
    Ø Passengeroperationswithoutanyinfrastructure;
    Ø Long-haulfreightoperationswithrelatedmainlineinfrastructureandthepassengerservices
         package; and/ or all the above packages together.

The winning bidder bid for all the three packages together. The details of the structure of the concession
arrangement and fees are presented in Annex 10.

(b)      Staff Rationalization (US$19.5 million, 62% of Total Project Cost)

Based on staff productivity comparisons of different railways, it was clear that ZRL was grossly
overstaffed and the Concessionaire was expected to accept only about 800 staff instead of the 3300 on roll
in 2000. Successful concessioning of ZR was contingent on arrangements being made to retrench the staff
that the concessionaire would not take over. The component was to be implemented by ZRL in two stages:


    Ø Retrenchmentofabout1500stafftobringthelevelfrom3300to1800priortoconcessioning;and
    Ø Retrenchmentofabout1000staffconsequenttoconcessioningontheassumptionthatthe
         Concessionaire will take over about 800 staff. The component was to finance the retrenchment
         package as agreed under a collective bargaining agreement between the ZRL management and the
         Railway Workers Union.

ZRL was also supposed to settle a liability of about US$1.7 Million, which was accumulated through non
payment of staff pension contributions to the Pension Fund in order to enable the retrenched staff to draw
their eligible pension. This liability was eventually cleared prior to the commencement of the concession.
The details of the retrenchment process, severance package estimates, and pension fund obligations are
described in Annex 10.

(c)      Assets Rehabilitation (US$7.2 million, 24% of Total Project Cost)

The objective of this component was to assist ZR prevent further erosion of its operating capacity and
address three major operating constraints:

    Ø Inadequateavailabilityandlowreliabilityoflocomotives;


                                                      - 3 -

    Ø Excessivesideliningofwagons;and
    Ø Poorconditionoftrack.

    This sub-component was to be implemented by ZRL, and comprised the following activities:

    Ø OverhauloffiveGMlocomotivesatUS$240,000perlocomotive,withatotalIDAallocationof
         US$1.2 million;
    Ø Fittingof1,980wheeldiscsto255wagons,totalIDAallocationUS$1.1million;and
    Ø Strengtheningoftherailwaytrackinselectedweaksectionsinvolvingreplacementof40,000
         concrete sleepers and 60,000 wooden sleepers. Total IDA allocation for procurement of sleepers
         was US$2.4 million and GRZ allocation of US$2.0 million for fasteners and ballast.

(d)      Environmental Mitigation (US$0.3 million, 1% of Total Project Cost)

The objective of this component was to help the railways liquidate accumulated past liabilities in advance
of the concession. The component was to be implemented by ZRL, and comprised the following activities:

    Ø Supplyandcommissioningofpollutioncontrolequipment(fumeextractors,andoilseparators)at
         locomotive repair workshops;
    Ø Cleaning-upofcontaminatedsites,mainlyofoilleaksandspillsbuiltupovertheyears;and
    Ø ProductionofanEnvironmentalManagementPlanforZR;

(e)      ZR Restructuring (US$0.5 million, 2% of Total Project Cost)

The objective of this component was to prepare ZRL for undertaking the following functions in the
post-concession period:

    Ø BethecustodianoftherailwayassetsonbehalfoftheGovernment;
    Ø Haveanoversightoftherailwayinventory;
    Ø Monitorconcessionaire'scompliancewiththeconcessionagreement;
    Ø Monitortheperformanceoftheconcessionaire;and
    Ø Intheshorttermtoresolvealloutstandingliabilities,disposeofallsurplusassets,andwindupall
         non-core activities.

The component was to be implemented by ZRL, and comprised the following activities:

    Ø Procurementofaccountingpackagesandothersoftwareand,computers,andofficeequipment;
    Ø Refurbishmentofthenewofficepremisesforthepost-concessionZR;and
    Ø Trainingofstaffinskillsforthenewrole.

(f)      Regulatory and Legal Framework (US$0.8 million, 3% of Total Project Cost)

The objective of this component was to assist the Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT) in
developing a regulatory and legal framework appropriate for railway sector in light of the overall economic
liberalization in Zambia, and in particular the privatization and restructuring of the railway sector. The
component was to be implemented by MCT, and comprised the following activities:

    Ø Assessmentoftheeffectivenessoftheexistingeconomicandsafetyregulatoryframework;
    Ø Recommendingchangesintheregulatoryframeworkincludingthedefiningofinternal


                                                     - 4 -

        organization, staffing, operating costs, and financing mechanisms for the new regulatory agency;
        and
    Ø Preparationoftherequireddraftlegislation.

(g)     MCT Strengthening (US$0.5 million, 2% of Total Project Cost)

The purpose of the component was to strengthen the analytical capacity of the MCT. The component was
to be implemented by MCT and comprised the following activities:

    Ø Acquisitionofnewsoftwareand/orupgradingofexistingsoftwareforanalyzingtransporttrends,
        costs, and capacities and developing transport models;
    Ø Trainingofstaffinacquiringappropriateskillsfordealingwiththerestructuringofthetransport
        industry; and
    Ø ComputernetworkingwithintheMinistryformoreefficientdischargeofitsfunctions.

(h)     Social Mitigation (US$1.1 million, 3% of Total Project Cost)

The objective of this component was to provide a comprehensive and professionally organized approach to
mitigating the negative social impact on the employees who were expected to be retrenched from ZR. While
funds for the retrenchment were adequately planned for, it was generally observed that, loss of employment
would still have an adverse social impact on workers. The program was developed using the results and
recommendations of a major social mitigation assessment carried out under the project.

The component was implemented by the National Social Safety Net (NSSN), a department of the Ministry
of Labor and Social Security. The component comprised the following activities:

    Ø Psycho-socialCounseling;
    Ø SmallBusinessManagementAwarenesstraining;
    Ø VocationalBasedTraining;and
    Ø AgriculturalBasedSkillsTraining,andLandResettlement.

The targets for each of the above intervention activities as set out at appraisal are presented in Table 1. The
targets were very ambitious and were set at figures slightly higher than would be expected. This was
deliberate as the overall strategy was to make maximum effort for the interventions. Under previous
retrenchments in ZR, only about 5% of the retrenched workers had found formal employment while another
20% had opened small enterprises and another 5% had moved to farming.
3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were not revised. The social mitigation component was, however, enhanced by
adding a civil works sub-component to enhance accessibility through improvement of feeder roads (30km)
and drilling of bore holes (10 Nos.) in selected resettlement areas where former railway staff were provided
with plots of land. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was accordingly amended in September
2002 to adjust for these needs and allow civil works to be eligible under the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated Satisfactory. The core concept of the Project was the involvement of the private
sector in the operation and management of the railways. This was triggered by the key lesson learnt under
the Bank financed Fourth Railway Project, which was that, as long as ZR remains publicly managed, it
cannot achieve and/or sustain financial self-sufficiency. Poor accountability and motivation, frequent
changes in top management, pressure to continue provision of unprofitable services, and other forms of



                                                     - 5 -

interference from various sources are some of the main reasons preventing the railways from becoming
financially sound.

The development objectives were formulated to be consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) and the Transport Policy as defined by the government. The Project aimed at supporting the
Government to concession the railway to private sector, which was expected to bring in the required
expertise and investments to get the railways back to its peak performance.

A PHRD Grant (TF 23134, Yen 55.5 Million), approved in September 1995, was used to finance a study
to define a clear framework for involving the private sector in the ownership and management of the
railway system. The Study recommended a vertically integrated concession with flexibility for the bidders
to bid separately for short-haul, the inter-mine, and long haul freight operations. The option was presented
to the Cabinet and its approval obtained for implementation. .

In a parallel development, assistance was provided by SIDA in improving the performance of the railways
or at least preventing it from deterioration during the period required to complete the concessioning process.
Under a separate agreement between the Government of Zambia and SIDA, a team of experts took over the
top management of ZR. One expert was also inducted into the Board of Directors of ZRL to contribute to
better decision-making. The Management Team helped improve operations, operate within the revenue
generated by ZRL, avoid increasing ZRL's liabilities, implement the investment and staff retrenchment
components of the Project, and effectively bring the railways to a position where the Concessionaire could
commence operations with minimum operational and administrative concerns.

The railway concession strategy and design was developed by engaging professional consultants and
refined through intensive discussions involving the Consultants, ZPA, ZRL and the expatriate management,
the Ministry of Transport, the World Bank, and finally with the potential bidders.

The Project design was developed through intensive interactions with the ZRL management, ZPA, the
Ministry of Transport, staff unions, major customers, and other major stake holders. In addition to
standard technical, financial and economic considerations, appropriate attention was given to the very
complex labor and social issues (retrenchment), legislation and regulation, outstanding environmental
liabilities, and maintaining operating capacity during the concessioning process.

A Quality Enhancement Review (QER) of the project was undertaken in April 2000. The QER panel
concluded that:

    Ø Justbeforeprojectappraisalthepreparatoryworkhadachievedaveryadvancedstage;
    Ø TheprocessofengagementandconsultationcarriedoutwiththeGovernmentandtheZRwas
          adequate; and
    Ø That,therewasstrongleadershipintheproject.ThePanelalsomadeveryusefulrecommendations
          regarding the concession design, social mitigation measures, and investment proposals.

The Project profile with staff retrenchment and social mitigation details was sent to the World Bank's top
management in accordance with the Operational Manual (BP12.00) of March 5, 1996 for approval
and advice.




                                                      - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of the project objectives is rated satisfactory. The development objectives could
be achieved only by involving the private sector in the operation and management of the Railways. The
first main milestone to be achieved, therefore, was to select the Concessionaire and for him to commence
operations as that would have actually marked the beginning of the railway revitalization effort. This
milestone was successfully achieved with the selected concessionaire taking over the management of the
railway on December 3, 2003 in spite of the complexity of the concessioning process, apathy of the
investors in bidding for the railway concessions in sub-Saharan Africa, persistent verbal campaign against
privatization by some stakeholders, and the unavoidability of the accompanying massive staff retrenchment.
Along with that, the labor force was downsized from 3,300 in 1999 to about 800 at the time of take over of
the railway by the Concessionaire in December 2003.

With the successful concessioning of the railway, the stage was set for commencing the task of
revitalization of the railway, but the Concessionaire, after takeover, was faced with huge tasks such as:

     Ø Reorganizingworkprocessestooperatewith800staffinsteadof1800priortothecommencement
         of the concession;
     Ø Reintroducingoperatingandmanagementsystemsformonitoringandcontrollingoperations,costs,
         quality, locomotive and rolling stock turnaround as well as for entering into long-term contracts
         with the customers; rehabilitating infrastructure and operating assets; and
     Ø Establishingeffectivecoordinationwiththeneighboringrailwaysystems. Theseeffortsobviously
         could take time, between three to five years.

Unfortunately, the start of the concession was marked by some serious problems. On the one hand, the
Concessionaire faced problems with its own consortium members and subcontractors and on the other
Zambia Railways Limited (ZRL) and the Government Inspector for Railways (GIR) produced a number of
highly critical reports about the Concessionaire's performance within a few months of the start of the
concession. This led to worsening of relations and a feeling that all was not well with the concession. To
stem the worsening relations and rectify the negative perceptions about the concession, the Project Team
facilitated a workshop and brought the parties together for a face to face discussion under the chairmanship
of MCT. That helped a lot and since then the relations have improved, the concessionaire has made
substantial efforts to improve operations and accelerate the pace of rehabilitation of assets, and the
perception regarding the concession has improved.

During the last two years since the commencement of the concession, the Concessionaire has focused on
long distance traffic and the average haul has increased by about 25% and the freight traffic overall by
20% (based on net ton kilometers). The Concessionaire has introduced a system of independent survey of
the customers to improve the quality of service. Rehabilitation of assets is also progressing well.
However, a lot remains to be done. The railways in Zambia have been in a state of neglect for a very long
period and considerable time would be required to bring it back to good health. The current trends are,
however, encouraging as discussed below.

     Ø AccordingtotheauditreportsoftheAuditorsfortheConcessionaire(RSZ),theConcessionaire
         has met all his concession fee obligations transferring a total amount of US$3.7 million (as at third
         quarter 2005), and also paid to the government a total of US$1.3 million in corporate taxes,
         entirely reversing the condition prior to concession, in which the government was subsidizing the
         railway operations and maintenance. However, the Borrower, in its comments on the ICR (see



                                                      - 7 -

        Annex 9 para 3.1), has alleged non-compliance by the Concessionaire in fee obligations, and
        asserted weaknesses in the Concession Agreement which favor the Concessionaire. To review
        these allegations, Parliament, in December 2005, has commissioned the Government to set up a
        review committee and report back the findings.
    Ø Laborproductivityhasincreasedbothasaresultofstaffreductionandincreasein
        net-ton-kilometers of freight traffic;
    Ø Sofar,asindicatedbytheConcessionaire,thelevelofinvestmentbytheconcessionaireintermsof
        rehabilitation of fixed infrastructure and rolling stock has been adequate, with the emphasis on first
        addressing critical areas. The regular and systematic rehabilitation has now picked up with the
        highlights being as follows: (a) 266 kms of track has been rehabilitated and another 450 kms is in
        progress; (b) 8 remanufactured engines have been ordered and 4 of them have been received in
        order to strengthen the locomotive fleet; (c) wagons are being rehabilitated at a rate of 80 per
        month; (d) telecommunication equipment, plant and machinery, and station buildings are also on
        regular rehabilitation schedule; and (e) about 298 good second hand passenger coaches have been
        procured from the Republic of South Africa, and an additional 28 are expected by mid 2006.

Based on the above considerations, there is reasonable certainty that the development objectives will be
fully achieved and sustained in the medium to long term.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The figures provided in parenthesis after each component, present the cost estimates at appraisal (including
contingencies) as contained in the PAD, and final project costs at the time of drafting the ICR.

(a)      Railway Concession (PAD US$1.1 Million, ICR US$1.28 Million)

This component is rated satisfactory. The railway was successfully concessioned, and the Concessionaire
took over operations on December 3, 2003. The initial target was to concession the railway by September
2001. There were three main reasons for the delay:

    Ø TheMinistryofCommunicationsandTransportatonepointconstitutedacommitteeofeight
        cabinet ministers to oversee the process and the committee took a long time to convey approvals for
        the concession design and eventually the committee was scrapped;
    Ø Thesecond-rankedbiddermadearepresentationtotheGovernmentanddealingwiththatalso
        delayed the approval of the concession by the Attorney General; and
    Ø ThenegotiationsbetweenthepreferredbidderandtheGovernment-appointednegotiatingteamtook
        an inordinately long time.

The first cause for delay has to be viewed in the light of the Government's anxiety over concessioning and
eagerness to get assurance at various stages of the concessioning process as well to keep most Ministers
and officials involved in the process. Though this step delayed the process, it also led to more Government
acceptance and ownership. The second cause of delay was also part of the process and meant to ensure
transparency, though the representation could have been disposed off faster. The third cause for delay
could have been reduced considerably. Based on the lessons learnt from this third cause, subsequent
railway concessioning processes in other countries have been designed to almost eliminate the need for
protracted negotiations. This is further explained in this report under the section on lessons learnt.

(b)      Staff Rationalization (PAD US$19.5 Million, ICR US$21.1 Million)

This component is rated satisfactory. All the retrenched ZR employees were paid their severance packages



                                                      - 8 -

and those who crossed over to the concessionaire were paid their early retirement dues. The output of this
component is as follows:

    Ø StaffRetrenchment(PADUS$17.5Million,ICRUS$19.1Million): Atotalof2,500employees
        were retrenched, reducing the number of employees from 3,300 at the start of the project to about
        800, at the time of the concession. IDA contributed US$19.11 million against the appraisal
        estimate of US$17.5 million. The increase in cost was partly caused by: (a) retrenchment of 2,500
        staff compared to 2,400 for which the provision was made; and (b) delay in the takeover of the
        concession, which increased the cost of packages.
    Ø ThePensionFundarrearsofUS$2MillionwereclearedbyZRLbeforethecommencementofthe
        concession.

The process and management of the staff retrenchment was highly successful as the number of court cases
pending (24 cases) from the litigations of former employees is less than 1% of the total staff retrenched.

(c)     Assets Rehabilitation (PAD US$7.2 Million, ICR US$5.8 Million)

This component is rated satisfactory. IDA contributed $4.71 million and ZR contributed US$1.1 million
against its planned contribution of US$2 million. The output of this component is as follows:

    Ø 4locomotiveswereoverhauledfromprojectfunds,andputintoservicein2003.Thiscontributed
        to improving the locomotive availability and quadrupling its reliability from about 8,000 km
        between failures in 1998 to about 33,000 km between failures in 2003;
    Ø 1,980wagonwheelswerepurchased,andusedtorepairapproximately255defectivewagons;and
    Ø Atotallengthofabout22kmofmainlinetrackbetweenLusakaandKarubwesectionwasrelayed
        with about 40,000 concrete sleepers. Additionally, a total length of about 377 km selected
        derailment prone sections north of Kabwe were strengthened by interlacing (1:4) with
        approximately 66,000 wooden sleepers.

This component allowed ZR to sustain its operating capacity and prevented a serious deterioration of its
operational and financial performance during the transition period leading up to the concession and gave
the concessionaire a good start especially on the availability and reliability of locomotive power and
wagons.

(d)     Environmental Mitigation (PAD US$0.3 Million; ICR US$0.3 Million)

This component is rated satisfactory. An environmental mitigation study conducted through a consultancy
in 2001 provided the base line information for the environmental mitigation program for which the
following was accomplished:

    Ø AnEnvironmentalManagementPlanwasproducedandadoptedbyZRinSeptember2002;
    Ø Pollutioncontrolequipment(emissiondetectors,andfumeextractors)wasprocuredandis
        awaiting installment by the concessionaire;
    Ø Oilseparatorswereconstructedatthreeselected,majorlocomotiverepairsheds,atNdola,Kabwe
        and Livingstone. However, at the time of the ICR, these oil separators had not yet been
        commissioned; and
    Ø Contaminatedsiteswerecleanedatthreeselectedmajorlocomotiverepairsheds,atNdola,Kabwe
        and Livingstone.




                                                    - 9 -

(e)       ZRL Restructuring (PAD US$0.5 Million, ICR US$0.6 Million)

This component is rated satisfactory for the following reasons: ZRL has been downsized to about 25 staff
and its role redefined to manage the railway concession instead of being a railway operator. ZRL now has
an oversight function over the railway inventory, and it monitors the concessionaire's compliance with the
concession agreement. In the short term, ZRL is also expected to resolve all outstanding liabilities, and
dispose off all surplus assets, and disengage from non-core activities.

However, the approach to appoint former railway staff, more specifically the expatriate Managing
Director, to monitor the performance of the private operator created serious problems in the beginning.
However, ZRL is now acting by itself and is progressively becoming more experienced in monitoring the
concession.

(f)       Regulatory and Legal Framework (PAD US$0.8 Million, ICR US$0.9 Million)

This component is rated moderately satisfactory. In June 2003, MCT contracted a consulting firm to
Review the Regulatory and Legal Framework for the Railways Industry. In early 2004, a draft report was
produced and widely circulated and discussed. The consultant presented a final report and a draft Railway
Legislation in April 2005 which includes:

    Ø Anoutlineoftheexistinglegalframework;
    Ø Adraftofanenablingnewrailwaylegislationtoreflectthechangedrailwaystructureanda
         liberalized business environment;
    Ø Anoverviewoftheagenciescurrentlyandpotentiallyinvolvedinrailwayregulation;
    Ø Adiscussionontheneedforrailwaysector-specificeconomicregulationsandtheapplicationof
         environmental regulations; and
    Ø Specificproposalsforlicensingofrailwayoperatorsandinstitutionalstructureforrailwaysafety
         regulations.

While it is true that a final decision on the form of the regulatory body did not emerge, it was not due to
slow decision-making or implementation; the way forward was simply not at all clear ­ and experience in
other countries did not point to an obvious answer. The need for economic regulation for the railways was
questionable as there is reasonable competition from road transport services and the Concessionaire is free
to set freight tariffs and select the freight that it wants to carry. Moreover, passenger tariffs and frequency
of passenger services are well articulated in the concession agreement. Additionally, Zambia, like many
other countries, has an agency to deal with complaints of anti-competitive behavior. For these reasons
establishing a separate regulatory body was not a clearly felt need, and the justification for incurring the
additional expenditure was not apparent. Furthermore, concessioning experience in other countries does
not point unequivocally to the need for an economic regulator.

The need for a safety regulator is more apparent. In this regard, the Government has filled the vacancy of a
Government Inspector of Railways (GIR), whose main role is to inspect the railways for any safety
violations. For the time being, the Bank has agreed that no additional agency be created for safety
regulation. The experience of the GIR will form the basis of any future action. The proposed amendment
of the Railways Act has been processed. However, it needs to be emphasized that the legal authority to
concession the railways was already present in the old Railways Act and the Concessionaire commenced
under that authority by obtaining a valid permit from the Minister of Transport. The proposed legislation
is meant to make the provisions in the Concession Agreement and the Railways Act consistent and also
pave the way for any future restructuring such as introduction of third party operations. The delay in the


                                                        - 10 -

enactment of the legislation is therefore of no immediate material consequence. The moderately
satisfactory rating reflects the fact that the amendment need not have been delayed to this extent.

(g)      MCT Strengthening (PAD US$0.5 Million; ICR US$0.7 Million)

This component is rated satisfactory. The following outputs were achieved under this component:

    Ø TheprojectprovidedacomputernetworksystemforMCTheadquartersthatwillbeused,among
         others, to maintain a transport data base to collect and register transport statistics and to provide
         internet access and internal electronic communications for MCT staff. The system is being tested
         and commissioned;
    Ø Morethan40staffparticipatedinthetrainingactivitiesonthefollowingsubjects:transport
         economics, railway safety, financial management, procurement, information technology, and
         human resource management;
    Ø Computerequipment,officefurnitureandvehicleswereprocuredtosupporttheproject
         coordination activities and the duties of the Government Inspector of Railways.

The study report on Regulatory and Legal Framework contains a set of recommendations to strengthen
MCT to adequately monitor the railway concession in collaboration with ZRL and improve the capacity of
MCT to deal with railway policy and broader transportation issues.

(h)      Social Mitigation. (PAD US$1.1 Million; ICR US$1.3 Million)

This component is rated highly satisfactory. Based on international experience in staff retrenchment, there
was widespread skepticism about the possible impact of this component. The argument was that given the
high unemployment rate in Zambia, the retrenched staff has very little chance of gaining employment in the
formal sector, more so, if the retrenched staff possesses only railway-related skills. In many countries,
where the retrenched staff was provided vouchers for training, only 20% or so actually made use of the
training and even a lesser percentage was successful in gaining employment. In spite of the skepticism, the
Project Team decided to make a vigorous effort at assisting staff in many different ways and very
ambitious targets were set for the various sub-components as indicated in the table below, even though it
was known that the targets may not be realized. The overall strategy was to make the maximum effort.

As indicated in Table 1 below, a total of 932 retrenched employees of ZRL, about 40% of the total staff
retrenched, received social counseling. More than 50% of the retrenched staff also received training of
some sort or the other. In addition to achieving a comprehensive package, 10 boreholes were drilled and
two feeder roads (30 km, and 20 km) were fully rehabilitated to benefit more than 200 retrenched staff that
chose to acquire land in the Katikulula and Masasabi resettlement schemes for farming purposes.

    Table 1. Social mitigation Statistics
      Training          Social          Small Business   Agriculture Skills Vocational Skills  Land Resettlement
       Type          Counseling          Awareness           Training          training

      Planned           1,463               932               250                250                 500

      Actual             932                632                330               510                 224
      Trained

Overall, the implementation of this component was highly successful. Most retrenched staff appreciated the



                                                       - 11 -

social counseling; about 80% of those that received training on small business awareness have actually
established their businesses; about 80% of those that received agricultural based skills derive their primary
income from agriculture; and many of those who received vocational training have found alternative
employment. Moreover, the group that was selected to participate in the land resettlement have benefited
from a professional and comprehensive package that includes improved infrastructure (feeder roads and
boreholes) and social services like education and health in these resettlement areas.

Three random comparative study cases which compared business performance between those who
undertook training with those who did not take training indicated that, those with training were doing better
economically than those without training. It was generally felt that, for maximum benefit, training could
have been conducted before the beneficiaries received their terminal benefits. The beneficiaries observed
that, in most cases, training came long after the terminal benefits had been received and spent. They
advised that, in the situation where the retrenched staff is deceased or too old to undertake training,
immediate family members such as sons or daughters could have been allowed to attend the skills training
programs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis was carried out for the "with" and "without" project scenarios. Economic benefits
accruing from the project are in the form of: (i) transport cost savings on the traffic that is anticipated to
shift from road to rail; (ii) reductions in rail operation costs resulting from improved productivity of the
privatized railway. For example, labor productivity is currently very high compared to that which existed in
the state owned railway which employed an excess of staff; and (iii) the multiplier effect of the retrenched
staff investing in alternative businesses and getting productively employed.

(a) Without concession: In the "without" project scenario, the NPV is negative. This entails that, had
ZRL continued to operate as a state owned enterprise (SOE), it would have continued to make losses;
government would not have received any fiscal revenue from ZRL and instead would have been forced to
continue subsidizing the firm to keep it afloat. Additionally, Government fiscal burden from the railways
would have increased from year one to twenty, as ZRL would have continued making losses and carrying
progressively declining freight traffic. In this scenario, the following assumptions were made:

    Ø Trafficwouldhavecontinuedtodeclineintheabsenceofanyinvestmentsanddiscontinuationof
         the SIDA management contract, from the actual of 545 million net ton kilometers in 1999 by about
         2% every year;
    Ø Staffwouldhavedeclinedto1,800butveryslowlyandmostlyduetonaturalattrition. Thisis
         because ZRL would not have the resources to pay for retrenchment benefits;
    Ø NomorethanUS$10millionofownresourceswouldhavebeeninvestedovertenyearsjustto
         keep the railway operational;
    Ø Economiccosthasbeencalculatedusingamaximumstaffestablishmentof2400employeesor
         actual, if less than 2400, in that particular year;
    Ø VariablecosthasbeenassumedasUSD.0156/NETTONKM,basedontheZRLrecordsofcosts.
    Ø FixedcostsareassumedtobeUS$5.1million;
    Ø Staff-relatedunitcostsasinthePADweretakenfromZRLrecords.
    Ø Economiccostsdifferfromfinancialcostsonlyintermsofstaffcosts;
    Ø Revenueisproportionaltotrafficandfollowsthecurrenttariffstructure;and
    Ø Opportunitycostofcapitalis12%.

(b) With Concession (Base Case): In this scenario, the following assumptions were made:




                                                        - 12 -

    Ø Trafficwouldincreaseattherateof10%peryearforthefirstfiveyearsandthenattherateof2%
         per year;
    Ø Staffwoulddeclineto800bythetimeofthecommencementoftheconcessionandthenincreasein
         proportion to the traffic;
    Ø ApartfromtheinvestmentundertheProject,theConcessioanirewouldmakeadequateinvestment
         to generate adequate capacity;
    Ø Economiccosthasbeenconsideredthesameasthefinancialcostsincethestaffwouldbereduced
         to the optimal level;
    Ø Variablecosthasbeenassumedtoincreasetoreflectadequatemaintenance.
    Ø FixedcostsareassumedtoremainunchangedatUS$5.1millioneventhoughitcouldshowsome
         reduction;
    Ø Staff-relatedunitcostshavebeenretainedasin"without"scenario;
    Ø Economiccostsandfinancialcostsarethesame;
    Ø Revenueisproportionaltotrafficandfollowsthecurrenttariffstructure;and
    Ø Opportunitycostofcapitalis12%.

The NPV and the EIRR calculations were based on traffic projections in the concessionaire's reference
financial model (RFM), but using the actual for traffic volumes and revenues for 2004. The positive NPV,
and a relatively high EIRR in comparison to the employed discount rate of 12%, shows that the concession
has economic benefits to the economy. The results of the economic analysis for the base case are indicated
in Table 2 below.

Table 2. Economic Analysis Results (Base Case)
                                  ICR              PAD
 NPV (USD Million)                 83.9            47.9
 EIRR (%)                          30.0            28.1


4.4 Financial rate of return:
The assumptions used in the calculation of revenues and costs are summarized in Annex 3 under economic
costs and benefits. The results of the financial analysis for the base case (with concession) are indicated in
Table 3 below.

Table 3. Financial Analysis Results (Base Case)
                               ICR              PAD
 NPV (USD Million)             106.92           65.6
 FIRR (%)                      41.6             38.12

The project has a positive NPV, and a relatively high FIRR well above the employed discount rate of 12%.
The project is, therefore, financially viable. However, a sensitivity analysis based on changes in traffic
levels and tariffs indicates that the result is very sensitive to traffic levels. This would mean that, for the
railway to survive, it should not only be cost effective, but also operate trains efficiently in order to capture
the required levels of traffic in the market to keep it profitable. This also strongly justifies the decision by
government to concession the railway to the private operator. The following assumptions were made:

    Ø Foryear1oftheconcessionoperation,whichis2004,actualresultsfromRailwaysSystemsof
         Zambia (RSZ) have been used i.e. K129.026 Billion was realized as revenue ([Source: RSZ
         management accounts extracts]. 563,117,383 net ton-kilometers were achieved. Assuming a dollar



                                                       - 13 -

         to kwacha exchange rate of k4,650, gives us US$ 0.0492 per net-ton-km as freight tariff charged
         by RSZ;
    Ø Onthecostside, K68.690[Source:RSZManagementAccountsextracts]billionwasspent. This
         is approximately US$ 0.0262 per net-ton-km in direct variable cost incurred by RSZ;
    Ø Actualinvestmentfigureswereusedfor2004,shortfallwasassumedtobespentwithintheagreed
         period or phase I (First 5 years);
    Ø Totaltaxassessedandpaidasof14thApril2005isassumedforperioduptoDecember2004,the
         accounting year for RSZ ($649,952); tariff projections in net ton-kilometers follow the
         concessionaire's reference model; and
    Ø Opportunitycostofcapitalis12%.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated substantial. Concessioning of Zambia
Railways marks an important institutional change, from public ownership and management of the railways
to public- private partnership. Under this arrangement, while the Government continues to own the
strategic railway infrastructure, the responsibility for the operation and management of the railways rests
with the private sector. The private sector's profit motivation, entrepreneurial skill, and management
expertise will ensure a significant increase in operating efficiency and achievement of development
objectives.

The single most important impact of the institutional change is that the financial support from the
Government to the operation of the railway sector, in terms of providing subsidies or writing off loans, has
been reversed. There is no longer a fiscal burden from the railways. Instead, the Government is now
receiving revenue, and so far in the last 17 months of the concession operation, the concessionaire had
already paid to the Government of Zambia an estimated total amount of US$3.7 million by end of the third
quarter of 2005, in variable and fixed fees, as well as US$1.3 million in corporate taxes.


The social mitigation component was well designed, its implementation was properly conducted, and
remarkable achievements were obtained. The comprehensive approach adopted, which included social
counseling, retraining and re-orienting workers to alternative employment, and even providing assistance in
resettlement, was successful in mitigating the adverse social impact of retrenchment on the former railway
workers. The project's social mitigation has great influence and a positive impact in developing new
methodologies and approaches to handling retrenchment issues in Zambia.

The concessioning of Zambia Railways will also trigger the concessioning of Tanzania Zambia Railway
Authority (TAZARA) network.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The initial project concept had envisioned that the concession would take effect in late 2001 or early 2002.
However, due to lack of Government experience in railway concessions and other reasons already
expressed earlier, viz., representation by the second-ranked bidder and the Government's keenness to
oversee the process in much more detail, the process took longer than anticipated and was completed in
December 2003. The long delay for the concession to materialize had a negative effect on the morale of
employees at ZR as employees were anxious and did not know their fate. As a result of the above, project
activities which were implemented by ZR staff proceeded at a much slower rate of progress than planned.

Additionally, at the time of project approval, it was very difficult to judge the level of interest of the private



                                                      - 14 -

sector due to the lack of experience in this type of projects in Zambia, and there was a great deal of
uncertainty about Zambia's economic prospects and investment climate.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The presence of a number of influential persons within the Government who were opposed to concessioning
had a sustained negative impact before, during, and after the concession. While the Government policy was
clearly articulated and the government had also approved the privatization of ZR, many bureaucratic
methods were subtly employed to delay the process. Even within the ZRL's external Management Team,
all were not equally keen to expedite the concessioning process. A more forceful attitude from the
Government could have ensured quicker results. On the other hand, it must be emphasized that
concessioning is very much a political process and too quick a conclusion can have its own backlash. All
in all, though some delay did take place compared to the original schedule, this was not serious.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The monitoring and report consolidation of all four implementing agencies remained as the weakest area of
the project. The coordinating role of the MCT and the inter-ministerial coordination (e.g. with MOFNP)
could have been improved with regard to providing cohesiveness to key elements of the project that were
carried out by different agencies. The overall quality of the reporting practices on project implementation
activities was deficient. This particular feature was not overcome, even after the concession took place,
and the quality and accessibility to basic data was a particular problem in drafting the implementation
completion report.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At the time of appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$31 million (including US$3.3
million for physical and price contingencies) and total actual cost was US$31.99 million or about 103% of
the appraisal estimate.

The staff retrenchment component for which more than half (56%) of the financial resources were
originally allocated (US$17.5 million) was implemented in full.

An amendment to the Development Credit Agreement was approved to allow civil works to be eligible for
financing. An allocation of US$0.9 million for civil works was agreed, but only about US$0.02 million was
actually disbursed.

About US$1 million, which is the gain over the life of the project due to the exchange rate fluctuations
between Special Drawing Rights and US dollars, is planned to be canceled.

With regard to the financing sources, the central government financed US$3.1 million on items identified in
the DCA, which is about three fourths of the agreed counter part funds (US$4 million). However, the
accounting of these transactions is not clear and straightforward. The amount that ZRL owed the pension
fund was also changing with the retirement of staff. Finally, ZRL appears to have cleared the pension
liability and that is no more an issue. Moreover, the Government finally agreed with the staff unions and
actually spent much more in clearing the pension dues of the staff transferred to the Concessionaire.
Though the ICR cost tables reflect that US$2 million was provided by the government towards clearing the
pension arrears, the total contribution by the Government was much more.




6. Sustainability



                                                      - 15 -

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the project is rated likely. The sustainability of the project has been analyzed
in terms of its fiscal, institutional, environmental, and technical resilience as discussed below.

    Ø Fiscalsustainabilityismostlikely. Therelativeimportanceandlocationoftherailwaysystemin
        the overall national economy and its role in providing transportation services to key industries,
        business and agriculture centers, and exporters and importers is well recognized. The railway
        transport demand for bulk long- haul traffic is projected to increase substantially as a result of the
        sustained production growth of the mining sector, rapid development of the cement production
        industry, increased sugar production for export, increased coal production and transportation to the
        mines from Mamba collieries, and improved traffic in agricultural products. During 2004, the
        Concessionaire increased the traffic (in terms of net ton km) by about 30% compared to 2003,
        though the traffic in net tons decreased. The freight traffic decreased in terms of net tons as the
        Concessionaire focused on long-haul traffic, which in any case should be the railways' first
        priority. This became possible as the Concessionaire focused more on long haul traffic and in the
        process increased the average haul from 323 kilometers in 2003 to 477 kilometers in 2004. The
        prospects of increased traffic will on the one hand ensure continued viability of the concession and
        on the other ensure continued commitment of the Government to maintaining a functioning railway.


        The work force has been down sized from 3,300 at the beginning of the project to 800 at the
        commencement of the concession. A major element of operating cost has, therefore, been
        controlled. Costs will further come down as utilization of assets improves, accidents and
        derailments come down, and wastages of energy and materials are brought down.

        Traffic is expected to increase further when the neighboring railway systems (DRC, TAZARA,
        NRZ) are also privatized or otherwise improved. The railway is on its way to becoming financially
        self-sufficient, which means that the operating surplus will support all future rehabilitation of
        assets as well as reward the investors.

    Ø Institutionalsustainabilityislikely,however,considerableeffortwillbeneededinthecoming
        three years. Even though the relations between the Concessionaire and the conceding authority
        have shown improvement, the risks inherent in any reform involving privatization persist. As
        often, the beneficiaries of the concession are reluctant to express their opinion whereas the losers,
        tend to be very vocal. Retrenched staff, road transporters who may see their share of traffic
        decline, politicians who may feel their influence declining with the curtailment or discontinuation of
        uneconomic services, or politicians ideologically opposed to privatization could continue a
        campaign against the concession with exaggerated data and emotional pronouncements. These
        have the potential to bring down the concession, and thus steps need to be constantly taken to bring
        out authentic information about the performance of the railways, involve the critics in seminars and
        debates, and ensure all parties operate within the framework of the formal agreements. This is
        being done and the major institutional change is likely to be sustained.

        Moreover, appropriate railway legislation has been drafted and is awaiting approval by the
        parliament. While the Concession Agreement itself provides for complete freedom of the
        Concessionaire to set tariffs and decide on what traffic to carry, the enactment of the legislation
        will further limit economic regulation of the railways by the Government and reduce the risk of
        failure of the concession. The legislation encourages the Government to concentrate on
        environmental and safety regulation of the railways. This will further enhance the sustainability of


                                                       - 16 -

        the concessioned railway.

    Ø Environmentalsustainabilityismostlikely. Theconcessionagreementrequiresthe
        Concessionaire to meticulously follow the environmental regulations. In addition to this, all railway
        operations in Zambia are subjected to stringent environmental regulations under the Environmental
        Protection and Pollution Control Act of 1990, Cap 204 of the laws of Zambia administered by the
        Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ). Regarding safety, it is in the interest of the
        Concessionaire to eliminate derailments and accidents as such accidents increase the operating
        costs. Additionally, there are provisions for safety and environment certifications and regular
        inspections. Based on the above, one can expect drastic reduction in the incidence of safety and
        environmental violations.

    Ø Technicalsustainabilityislikely. Theconcessionairehasalreadyinvestedintherehabilitationof
        locomotives and rolling stock as well as infrastructure and is now geared to increase the traffic
        further and to reduce operating costs as a direct consequence of increased reliability of assets. He
        now has the incentive to prevent any backsliding and is, therefore, likely to continue to invest and
        improve the infrastructure and operating systems in order to capture all the traffic on offer and thus
        improve the profitability of operations.

    Ø PoliticalSustainabilityislikely. TheGovernmenthasliberalizedtheeconomy,andhasputin
        place enabling policies and legislations that encourage divestiture of SOEs and therefore,
        participation of the private sector in the running of the economy and as an engine of growth.
        However, from the political economy point of view, the Government has faced a lot of political
        pressure resulting from the public's past experiences with some of the unsuccessful SOE
        divestitures. The public is now increasingly demanding for tangible results in the short term, which
        may not be possible for the railways because investments and the impact of such investments in the
        railway sector can only be felt in the medium to long term. Therefore Government has to carefully
        manage this public expectation to ensure political sustainability of the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There were no major problems faced during the transition from ZRL to the concessionaire. This is mainly
because the senior management, middle management and operatives were retained by the concessionaire.
The only new staff was the managing director, and the general manager. Additionally, rolling stock was
also available for use by the concessionaire, including the locomotives rehabilitated under IDA support.
The above arrangements ensured continuity in the operations of the railways. Nevertheless, the concession
was not without its teething problems in the initial period. Timely intervention by World Bank staff and
Government officials to resolve differences proved highly useful.

The main transition problems faced were the misunderstandings that emerged immediately after the
concession award between ZR, the concession manager and the concessionaire regarding the articles of the
concession agreement. However, this was resolved swiftly and relationships have since been relatively
smooth. Secondly, during the run-up to concession award, employees were anxious as they did not know
whether they would be employed by the concessionaire or not, and because of this ZR suffered losses in
productivity, and thefts and sabotage of equipment by the employees.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:




                                                     - 17 -

The Bank's performance at the project identification and preparation is rated satisfactory. The task team
ensured that the project objectives were consistent with the Government and Bank strategies. The Bank
assigned a qualified team with an appropriate skill mix that delivered a well designed project based on the
extensive previous Bank experience on railway restructuring initiatives in the Africa region. Standard
economic and financial analyses were performed, the environmental and social aspects were properly
appraised, and the main risks were identified and dealt with appropriately. During project preparation,
lessons learned from the previous four Bank financed railway projects in Zambia were properly
incorporated. The project documents and project implementation plan were adequately detailed and of high
quality.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision is rated satisfactory. The project had three task team leaders over the life of the
project. The first team leader was responsible for project preparation, appraisal and substantial part of the
implementation; the second, performed primarily supervision activities; and the last one, closed the project
and led the project completion evaluation. The task management transition processes were performed
smoothly and the Bank's policies and procedures were applied consistently throughout the project cycle. A
key feature of the supervision was that, towards the end of the project, its task management was
successfully transferred to the Bank's Country Office in Lusaka, contributing to a more extensive and
frequent supervision of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank staff assigned to the project provided timely
attention to the client demands while adhering to agreed procedures and maintaining good control of the
project and the monitoring quality. The Bank staff assigned to the project over a six-year period was
instrumental in: (i) preserving the original project concept; (ii) giving continuity to the process that involved
frequent changes of government officials; and (iii) facilitating GRZ efforts to achieve the participation of
the private sector in the operation of the railway.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. During project preparation, Government counterparts
provided all the necessary information required by the task team. The detail and quality of the technical
studies performed partly by international consultants and partly by local entities was instrumental in
overcoming potential problems experienced in previous Bank railway restructuring operations in the region.
The set of comprehensive activities that were performed prior to project appraisal had a positive impact in
accelerating the credit effectiveness. The staff and local counterpart team assigned by government to the
project were very committed and the selection of implementation agencies was adequate to ensure the
ownership of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the central Government during project implementation is rated satisfactory. The
government provided overall support to the project and disbursed a significant part of the required counter
part funds in a timely manner. The Government demonstrated a strong commitment to the project as
reflected in their forthright support to all project components, and although late in some cases, complied
with all the agreed financial and legal covenants. However, the overall project monitoring and coordination
role of the Ministry of Communication and Transport could have been improved. All the components were
completed before the revised closing date, except for the implementation of a renewed regulatory and legal
framework for the rail industry, for which a study was completed, but the new legislation has yet to be
enacted.



                                                       - 18 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies is rated satisfactory. All four agencies maintained a high
level of commitment in spite of serious challenges posed by substantial delays in completing the concession,
the technical complexity of the project, and frequent changes of Government officials. The implementing
agencies were very responsive in taking corrective implementation measures; dealt effectively with some
complex environmental, social and retrenchment issues; and complied with the high level of standards set
by the Bank's policies.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory. Although project activities proceeded
slower than planned, the Borrower managed to implement all planned project activities, including the
railway concession which was the major activity under the project.

8. Lessons Learned

The lessons drawn from the project experience include the following:

    Ø Concessionbidprocessshouldbedesignedsoastoavoidprotractednegotiations.Assuming
         negotiations to be unavoidable, the bid process for the Zambia Railways Concession had provision
         for negotiations with the preferred bidder. In retrospect, this provision did not prove advantageous
         for the Government of Zambia as negotiations with the preferred bidder took inordinately long and
         almost every clause in the draft concession agreement was revisited. The practice of after-bid
         negotiations has many other dysfunctional aspects. First, the bidders can use this provision to play
         games, i.e., offer a very good proposal to win the concession and then use negotiations to directly
         or subtly dilute the proposal. Being seasoned businessmen, they are most likely to be also more
         experienced in negotiations. Second, as in the case of Zambia, the concession always takes more
         time to finalize. Third, transparency of the bid process is compromised even if the key provisions
         of the proposal such as the concession fee and concession duration are maintained. Relaxing other
         provisions relating to change of circumstance, change of law, termination, track standards, etc. also
         puts other bidders to disadvantage. If the revised conditions had been offered to other bidders as
         well, their bids could have been different. Finally, if there are few bidders, the negotiations tend to
         become one-sided.

         In recent times, the bid process has been designed to avoid negotiations. Under this process, the
         privatization agency and its advisors undertake very intensive discussions with the pre-qualified
         bidders to reach a consensus on the concession agreement and make it mandatory for the bidders to
         submit unconditional proposals. The only discussions that take place prior to signing the
         agreement pertain to refinement of the contract and ensuring that the concession agreement
         accurately reflects all understandings reached during pre-bid discussions. Moreover, during the
         pre-bid discussions, the advisors to the Government can play an active role and to a large extent
         compensate for the shortcomings in the Government capacity. The same is not true of post-bid
         negotiations because of the formal nature of negotiations.

    Ø TheProjectshouldcoverallaspectsoftheconcessioningandrestructuringprocess.TheZambia
         Railways Restructuring Project (ZRRP) supported the design and implementation of the
         concessioning process, retrenchment of surplus staff, social mitigation, selective rehabilitation of
         infrastructure and operating assets, establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory
         framework, and enhancement of the analytical capacity of the Ministry of Transport. This ensured
         that the project did not get stalled at any point and for any reason. A number of examples can be



                                                      - 19 -

         cited where the project focuses only on a few aspects and leaves the others either to the
         Government or other donor agencies. In that case, it is important to ensure the timing of the other
         projects. It can be quite disastrous if, for example, the concession is finalized but the financing for
         staff retrenchment is not available or the operating capacity goes down because the Project failed
         to include any investments, particularly for critical assets.

    Ø EveryaspectoftheproposedConcessionAgreementshouldbefullydiscussedwithallrelevant
         arms of Government and stakeholders. It is clear that a number of issues arise immediately after
         effectiveness of the concession because Government was either not fully aware of, or did not fully
         understand every clause in the terms and conditions of the Concession Agreement (as is the case
         here, where officials now feel they got a "raw deal" in the concession). This risk can be minimized
         by investing in greater effort to explain every clause of the proposed agreement to key officials not
         only in the Government but also the relevant parliamentary and Cabinet sub-committees. This
         implies the need for greater effort also in building capacity in relevant agencies (such as the
         Privatization Commission and the AG's office) to understand and negotiate privatization deals.

    Ø TheBankshouldstayinvolvedforatleasttwoyearsaftertheconcessionhasbecomeoperational
         . Experience in almost all concessions, more so in Zambia, has shown that, in spite of a well
         written concession agreement and good intentions on both sides, many unforeseen problems arise,
         which could disrupt relationship, generate mistrust, and adversely affect progress. If the
         concession agreements are not well written or the parties have reached an agreement after
         contentious negotiations, then even the smallest of the teething problems can retard progress. At
         that stage, the presence of the Bank could prove useful not exactly for mediating but for bringing
         the parties together, facilitating analysis, providing a voice of reason, and, if necessary, putting a
         little pressure. This has already proved effective in Zambia itself, where an ever escalating
         campaign of criticism from both sides was halted and good relations restored as a result of the
         Bank's intervention and involvement.

    Ø Vigoroussocialmitigationmeasurescanadjusttheadverseimpactofretrenchment. During
         preparation of the Project, even the staff unions were skeptical of any benefit of any social
         mitigation measures. The staff unions were more focused on retrenchment package and other
         terms of retrenchment. However, in spite of the view that counseling and staff training will be
         ineffective in the Zambian environment with high unemployment rate, serious plans were made for
         providing social, financial, and psychological counseling, assessment of training needs, actual
         provision of vocational, agricultural, entrepreneurial training and assistance for job search. The
         social mitigation measures have brought relief to the retrenched staff and helped majority of the
         staff to invest their severance payments, and settle down to post-railway life. There have been
         almost no demonstrations and legal actions.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's evaluation report is presented in Annex 9. The general conclusions of the Borrower are
not different though the Borrower has highlighted the ways in which the concessionaire's performance in
the first year of operation did not meet the Government's expectations.

The project had four implementing agencies as follows: Ministry of Communications and Transport;
Zambia Privatization Agency; Zambia Railways Limited; and National Social Safety Net, a department in
the Ministry of Labor. The Ministry of Communications and Transport was the overall project coordinator.



                                                       - 20 -

The comments from the Ministry of Communications and Transport are, therefore, an aggregate of all the
comments from the other mentioned implementing agencies.

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no co-financiers on the project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

The Swedish International Development and Cooperation Agency (SIDA) were partners to the railway
concessioning process. However, at the time of compiling this ICR, SIDA had not yet compiled a report.

10. Additional Information

        Additional information regarding the concession design, retrenchment package is presented at
        Annex 10.




                                                 - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Date of take over of the railways by private  December 2001                              December 2003
concessionaire
Freight traffic on railways                   2003 (ZRL)  2.4 million tons               2003 (ZRL)     1.5 million tons
                                                                                         2004 (RSZ)      -

                                                                                         2003 (ZRL) ** 311 million ntkm
                                                                                         2004 (RSZ)       340 million ntkm
                                                                                         2005 (RSZ)       340 million ntkm
Amount of income tax paid by the              2003 (ZRL) Nil                             $1.3 million
concessionaire to the government                                                         Cumulative cash flow to Government from
                                                                                         Concessionaire as of September 2005
Amount of fixed and variable concession fees 2003 (ZRL) Nil                              $3.7 million
paid by the concessionaire to the government                                             Cumulative cash flow to Government from
                                                                                         Concessionaire as of September 2005
Total cash flow paid by the concessionaire to 2003 (ZRL) Nil                             $5 million
the government                                                                           Cumulative cash flow to Government from
                                                                                         Concessionaire as of September 2005

**RSZ concentrated on long haul, while ZRL concentrated on inter-mine short haul. Thus net ton kilometers (ntkm) increased under
RSZ.


Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Commencement of concessioning                 By June 2001                               February 2002
negotiations
Signing of the concession agreements          By September 2001                          February 2003 ­ Freight concession
                                                                                         agreement
                                                                                         August 2003 ­ Passenger concession
                                                                                         agreement
Retrenchment of surplus staff completed       By September 2001                          Reduced from 3,300 in 1999 to 800 in
                                                                                         December 2003
Staff retraining and re-deployment completed By June 2002                                By June 2005
                                                                                         932 staff retrenched participated in the Social
                                                                                         Counseling program. Of the 932:
                                                                                         - 632 were trained in small business
                                                                                         awareness;
                                                                                         - 330 received agricultural based training;
                                                                                         and
                                                                                         - 510 vocational training.
Social mitigation measures completed          By June 2002                               Completed June 2005
Asset rehabilitation completed                By June 2001                               By December 2003
                                                                                         - 4 locomotives overhauled
                                                                                         - 106,000 sleepers procured and installed
                                                                                         and
                                                                                         - 1,980 wagon wheels purchased and used to
                                                                                         repair 248 defective wagons
Regulatory framework agreed and the           By June 2001                               By June 2005:
inspectorate established                                                                 The Government Inspectorate of Railways
                                                                                         has been established and the Inspector
                                                                                         appointed;
                                                                                         The regulatory framework is not yet in place.
                                                                                         As of April 2005 only the Review of the
                                                                                         Regulatory and Legal Framework has been
                                                                                         completed but the implementation of the
                                                                                         recommendations is pending.
Strengthening of MCT completed                By December 2003                           By June 2005
                                                                                         More than 40 staff received training




                                                              - 22 -

                                                                    -computer system installed in MCT
                                                                    - equipment, furniture and vehicles procured
                                                                    for the Government Inspector
Spin-off remaining activities and assets   By December 2002         By December 2003
                                                                    The government down sized ZR to 25 staff
                                                                    responsible for spinning-off the remaining
                                                                    activities
Winding up of ZR                           By June 2003             The government has designated ZR as a
                                                                    holding company and appointed it to monitor
                                                                    and supervise the concession agreement.

1End of project




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                    Appraisal           Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                    Estimate              Estimate      Appraisal
                    Component                         US$ million        US$ million
A. Railway Concessioning                                 1.00                1.28         116
B. Staff Rationalization                                16.90               21.11         108
C. Assets Rehabilitation                                 6.70                5.81          81
D. Environmental Mitigation                              0.30                0.30         100
E. ZRL Restructuring/Winding Up                          0.50                0.60         120
F. Regulatory and Legal Framework                        0.80                0.89         111
G. MCT Strengthening                                     0.50                0.70         140
H. Social Mitigation                                     1.00                1.30         118


Total Baseline Cost                                     27.70
Price and Physical contingency (*)                       3.30
                              Total Project Costs       31.00               31.99         103
                        Total Financing Required        31.00                 31.99
  (*) 15% on staff retrenchment and 10% on the rest rounded to nearest figure.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

           Project Categories                    Appraisal Estimate (US$ million equivalent)
                                             ICB         NCB        Other 2/      NBF      Total
                                                  6.4         1.0          1.0       0.0       8.4
1 Goods
                                                 (4.3)       (1.0)        (1.0)               (6.3)
                                                  0.0         0.0          3.4       0.0       3.4
2 Consulting/Services/Training
                                                                          (3.4)               (3.4)
                                                  0.0         0.0         17.3       0.0     17.3
3 Severance Payments
                                                                         (17.3)             (17.3)
                                                  0.0         0.0          0.0       0.0       0.0
4 Works

                                                  0.0         0.0          1.9       0.0       1.9
   Pension Payments

                 TOTAL                            6.4         1.0         23.6       0.0     31.0
                                                 (4.3)       (1.0)       (21.7)      0.0    (27.0)




                                                - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                 Project Categories               Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ million equivalent)
                                                 ICB       NCB       Other         NBF       Total
                                                    5.95      0.90        0.51                  7.36
    1 Goods
                                                   (4.85)    (0.90)     (0.51)                 (6.26)
                                                                          3.50                  3.50
    2 Consulting/Services/Training
                                                                        (3.50)                 (3.50)
                                                                        19.11                  19.11
    3 Severance Payments
                                                                       (19.11)                (19.11)
                                                    0.02                                        0.02
    4 Works
                                                   (0.02)                                      (0.02)
                                                                                     2.00       2.00
        Pension Payments
                                                                                     0.00       0.00

                        TOTAL                       5.95      0.90      23.12        0.00      31.99
                                                   (4.85)    (0.90)    (23.12)       0.00     (28.89)

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                             IDA      Govt.       CoF.     IDA       Govt.       CoF.    IDA     Govt.  CoF.
A. Railway Concessioning     1.10     0.00        0.00     1.28       0.00       0.00    116.4    0.0    0.0
(ZPA)
B. Staff Rationalization    17.50     2.00        0.00    19.11       2.00       0.00    109.2  100.0    0.0
(ZRL)
C. Assets Rehabilitation     5.20     2.00        0.00     4.71       1.10       0.00    90.6    55.0    0.0
(ZRL)
D. Environmental             0.30     0.00        0.00     0.30       0.00       0.00    100.0    0.0    0.0
Mitigation (ZRL)
E. ZRL Restructuring/        0.50     0.00        0.00     0.60       0.00       0.00    120.0    0.0    0.0
Winding Up
F. Regulatory and Legal      0.80     0.00        0.00     0.89       0.00       0.00    111.3    0.0    0.0
Framework (MCT)
G. MCT Strengthening         0.50     0.00        0.00     0.70       0.00       0.00    140.0    0.0    0.0
H. Social Mitigation         1.10     0.00        0.00     1.30       0.00       0.00    118.2    0.0    0.0
(NSSN)




                                                   - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




       W.O Project benefits ($ million)                                              With Project Benefits
                                                                                             ($ million)
       Workers   Workers      Govt         Total   Workers   Retrenchee  Retrenchee  Govt           Pensions   Pensions Freight
  Year Income    Pensions     Fiscal +/-   without Income    Alt Income  Interest    Fiscal +/-     Concession Govt     Users
                                                                                                                        savings

   1      10.40      0.83            -4.03    7.20      2.70        0.52        0.63        6.23          0.00    0.00     0.72

   2      10.09      0.83            -4.25    6.67      2.72        0.52        0.63        4.48          0.00    0.00     3.47
   3       9.77      0.83            -4.45    6.16      2.74        0.52        0.63        4.41         -0.01    0.00     6.46
   4       9.46      0.83            -4.62    5.67      2.70        0.52        0.63        4.83          0.02    0.00     9.69
   5       9.14      0.83            -4.78    5.19      2.72        0.52        0.63        4.95          0.09    0.45    10.72
   6       8.83      0.83            -4.91    4.74      2.73        0.48        0.63        5.64          0.11    0.43    11.74
   7       8.51      0.83            -5.03    4.31      2.75        0.44        0.63        6.40          0.14    0.41    12.77
   8       8.20      0.83            -5.13    3.89      2.76        0.40        0.63        7.17          0.16    0.38    13.81
   9       7.88      0.83            -5.22    3.49      2.77        0.36        0.63        7.95          0.18    0.36    14.85
  10       7.56      0.83            -5.29    3.11      2.79        0.32        0.63        8.74          0.20    0.34    15.90
  11       7.25      0.83            -4.34    3.74      2.80        0.29        0.63        9.55          0.23    0.32    16.95
  12       6.93      0.83            -4.38    3.39      2.82        0.25        0.63        10.37         0.25    0.29    18.01
  13       6.62      0.83            -4.40    3.05      2.83        0.21        0.63        11.20         0.27    0.27    19.08
  14       6.30      0.83            -4.41    2.72      2.84        0.17        0.63        12.05         0.29    0.25    20.15
  15       5.99      0.83            -4.41    2.41      2.86        0.13        0.63        12.91         0.32    0.23    21.24
  16       5.67      0.83            -4.39    2.11      2.87        0.09        0.63        13.78         0.34    0.20    22.33
  17       5.67      0.83            -4.68    1.82      2.89        0.05        0.63        14.67         0.36    0.18    23.43
  18       5.67      0.83            -4.96    1.54      2.90        0.01        0.63        15.57         0.38    0.16    24.54
  19       5.67      0.83            -5.23    1.28      2.92        0.00        0.63        16.48         0.41    0.14    25.66
  20       5.67      0.83            -5.48    1.02      2.93        0.00        0.63        17.41         0.43    0.11    26.79




                                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               02/27/1999                1     Lead Railway Specialist (1)
               09/27/1999                1     Lead Railway Specialist (1)
               03/12/2000                1     Lead Railway Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               06/23/2000                3     (TTL) Lead Railway
                                               Specialist (1)
                                               Senior Transport Economist
                                               (1)
                                               Procurement Analyst (1)

 Supervision
               02/10/2001                 1    (TTL) Lead Railway                     S               S
                                               Specialist (1)
               08/31/2001                 1    (TTL) Lead Railway Specialist          S               S
                                               (1)
               02/17/2002                 1    (TTL) Lead Railway Specialist          S               S
                                               (1)
               02/12/2003                 2    (TTL) Lead Transport Specialist        S               S
                                               (1); Lead Railway Specialist (1)
               08/19/2003                 2    (TTL) Lead Transport Specialist        S               S
                                               (1); Transport Specialist
                                               Consultant (1)
               09/30/2003                 1    (TTL) Lead Transport Specialist        S               S
                                               (1)
               12/13/2004                 3    (TTL) Transport Specialist (1);        S               S
                                               Lead Transport Specialist (1);
                                               Railway Consultant (1)

 ICR
               04/25/2005                6     (TTL) Transport Specialist             S               S
                                               (1); Transport Specialist
                                               Consultant (1);Economist
                                               Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               47.1                            167.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    12.5                              65.1
  Supervision                              54.2                            230.4
  ICR                                         10                              30
  Total                                   123.8                            492.6




                                               - 27 -

- 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Social Other -- Social Mitigation




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Review of Regulatory and Legal Framework of the Railway Industry in Zambia and the Strengthening
    of the Ministry of Communications and Transport. Final Report. CIE Consult. April 2005.
2. Study on the Options for Private Sector Participation in the Tanzania Zambia Railways Authority
    (TAZARA). Price Waterhouse Coopers. Final Report. March 2005.
3. Report on the Concessioning Process, Handover, and Monitoring of the Concession of Zambia
    Railways' Assets and Operations. ZPA. March 2004.
4. Transport Policy. GRZ. May 2002.
5. Audit of Separation Package. Phase 1. ZRL. Grant Thornton Associates Limited. January 2001.
6. Zambia Railways Restructuring Program. Program Implementation Plan. MCT. October 2000.
7. Project Appraisal Document. Zambia: Railways Restructuring Project. The World Bank. October
    2000.
8. Zambia Railways Private Sector Participation Study. Phase 2 Report. CPCS Transcom Ltd. ZPA.
    May 2000.
9. Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Study. Final Report. ZPA. University of Zambia,
    Department of Civil Engineering. April 2000.
10. Collective Agreement Relating to Salaries, Wages and Conditions of Service. Zambia Railways
    Limited and Railways Workers Union of Zambia. March 2000.
11. Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Zambia. The World Bank. November 1999.
12. Zambia Railways Private Sector Participation Study. Phase 1 Report. CPCS Transcom Ltd. ZPA.
    May 1999.
13. Zambia: The Business Environment for Foreign Direct Investment in the Country's Infrastructure.
    Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) and International Finance Corporation (IFC). The World
    Bank. January 1999 (Draft).
14. Three Year Revival Plan. ZRL. Hifab and DE-Consult. December 1998.
15. Concession Options for Zambia Railways. Southern Africa Transport and Communications
    Commission Technical Unit. August 1998.
16. Inception Report by HiFab and DE-Consult Management Team. Zambia Railways Limited. May 1998.
17. Staff Appraisal Report. Zambia: Road Sector Investment Program. The World Bank. September 1997.

18. Implementation Completion Report. Zambia: Fourth Railway Project for Republic of Zambia. The
    World Bank. June 1995.
19. Zambia Railways Traffic Forecast Study. Netherlands Economic Institute. June 1994.
20. Ten Year Development Plan. ZRL. January 1990.




                                                  - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. MAP IBRD 31135 (Revised)




                                      - 32 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 31135R

       22°                             24°                               26°                                         28°                                                                                 Lake            32°                                               34°
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tanganyika
                                                 Z A M B I A                                                                                                       Kaputa
                                                                                                                                                                                      Kasaba
                       RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                                                                                                   Bay                                                              T A N Z A N I A
                                                                                                                                                                                              Mpulungu
                                                                                                                                                                            Lake                                                            To Dar-Es-Salaam Port
                    ZAMBIA RAILWAYS NETWORK CONCESSIONED                      TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS                                                                         Mweru                        Mbala                                    (Tanzania)
                     - INTER-MINE FREIGHT RAIL OPERATION                                                                                                                  Wantipa
                                                                                                                                             Lake
                     - MAIN LINE FREIGHT RAIL OPERATION                       RAILROADS                                                      Mweru                                   Mporokoso
                     - PASSENGER RAIL OPERATION                                                                                            Nchelenge                                                                                 Nakonde
                                                                              PROVINCE CAPITALS
                    PART OF TAZARA LOCATED IN ZAMBIA
                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
                    ZAMBIA RAILWAYS NETWORK NOT PART OF THE                                                                                        Kawambwa

                    CONCESSION                                                PORTS (INSET)
10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10°

                    NEIGHBORING RAILWAY NETWORKS                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                            Isoka
                                                                                                                                                                           Luwingu                          KASAMA
                    RESETTLEMENT SCHEMES (only indicative)                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Chinsali

                                                                                                D E M . R E P.                                                                   N O R T H E R N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L a k e
                                                                                              O F C O N G O                                                Lake
                                                                                                                                                        Bangweulu
                                  Jimbe                                                                                                                                                                                                        Chama
                                                                                      To Lobito Port                            MANSA                  Samfya
                                                                                        (Angola)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M a l a w i
                                                                                                         Lubumbashi
                                               Mwinilunga                                                                                  L U A P U L A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mpika

12°                                                                     SOLWEZI                                                                                                                                                  Luangwa                                                                    12°
                                                                                                                 Kasumbalesa                                                                                                                                                                      MOZAMBIQUE
    A N G O L A                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lundazi
                                                                              Mutanda                                                                                                                                            EASTERN
                                                       N O R T H                                      Chingola                Mufulira

                                                    W E S T E R N                                        Kalulushi         Kitwe                                           Katikulula
                                                                                                                                       Sakania
                                                                                                                                        NDOLA
                                                                                                                   Luanshya                                                                                   Mfuwe
                                                                                                   COPPERBELT
                                                                                                                                                                                    Serenje
                                              Manyinga                  Kasempa
                        Zambezi
                                Kabompo                                                                         Mpongwe                                                                                                                                  M A L AW I
                                                                                                                                                            Mkushi                                                          CHIPATA



                                                                                                                                         Kapiri Mposhi                                                                                Chadiza
14°                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Katete                                                                                  14°
                                                                                                                                                    Mita Hills
                                                                                                                                                       Dam                                          Petauke
                                                                                                                       KABWE          Mulungushi
                                                                                                                                          Dam
                           Lukulu                                                                    C E N T R A L                                                                                                           M O Z A M B I Q U E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         32°                                             34°
                                                      Kaoma
           Kalabo                                                                   Mumbwa                                                                                                                                 GABON                                                           KENYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RWANDA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONGO
                     MONGU                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEM. REP.      BURUNDI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF CONGO
                                                                                                                                             LUSAKA                                                                       Cabinda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (ANGOLA)                                                 TANZANIA
                                                                  Itezhi-               Kafue  R.                            LUSAKA
                                                                   Tezhi   Masasabi                                                                                     Luangwa                                                                                                       Dar-Es-Salaam

                                                                   Dam                                                                                   R.
                                                                                                     Mazabuka                Kafu

                    W E S T E R N                               Ngoma                                                                          Zambezi
                                                                                  Namwala                                                                                                                                                 ANGOLA
                                                                                                  Magoye                                                                                                         16°
16°                        Senanga                   Kataba
                                                                                                                               Chirundu                                                                                                                                             MALAWI
                                                                                                                                               To Harare                                                                                                        ZAMBIA
                                                                                                          Monze                                                                                                                                                 Lusaka
                             Zambezi                                                                     Chisekesi         Siavonga
                                                                      S O U T H E R N                                                      Kariba
                                                                                                       PembaGwembe                                                                                                                                                                 MOZAMBIQUE
                                    R.                                                                                                                           Z I M B A B W E                                                                                     ZIMBABWE

                                                            Mulobezi                             Choma                                                                                                                                                                                   I N D I A N
                                                                                                                         Lake Kariba                                                                                                    NAMIBIA         BOTSWANA

                                                                                  Kalomo                                                                                                                                 S O U T H                                                       O C E A N
                                                                         Zimba               Masuku       Sinazongwe             0                  50                    100                 150 MILES

                                             Sesheke                                                                                                                                                                   AT L A N T I C
                                                                                                                                 0          50           100           150           200        250 KILOMETERS                                                                SWAZILAND


                                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                         O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LESOTHO
                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                       Durban
                              NAMIBIA                                     LIVINGSTONE                                            on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                               SOUTH AFRICA
                                                                                                                                 judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                 acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                           East London
       22°                                    BOTSWANA                   26°      To Durban and East London Ports (South Africa)                                           30°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AUGUST 2005

Additional Annex 9. Partner Comments

Borrower/implementing agency

        MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS AND TRANSPORT


              ZAMBIA RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT (ZRRP)
                                        IDA CREDIT 3433-ZA
               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT - MAY 2005

1.    Introduction

      The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of October 2000, provided for an IDA standard credit
      financing to the Zambian Government amounting to US$31 million. The Zambian Government as
      a borrower, appointed responsible agencies to implement the project as follows: (i) Zambia
      Railways Limited (ZRL); (ii) Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT); (iii) and
      National Social Safety Net (NSSN). The MCT was appointed as the Project Coordinator to
      oversee implementation of its component and those under the other three Agencies.

2.    Project Design Objectives

      The project was designed based on a number of objectives as follows: -

2.1.  Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) related objectives considered three strategic areas.
         l removing constraints to sustainable and diversified growth;
         l improving governance;
         l increasing access to basic services and direct poverty intervention. Inadequate transport
               infrastructure was identified as a major bottleneck for private investment and
               concessioning of Zambia Railways Limited was specifically identified as a priority area.

2.2.  The project development objective was therefore to enable ZRL through restructuring and
      privatization, to substantially increase its operating efficiency, reduce its cost of operations, and
      configure its freight services and tariffs to meet customers' requirements and expectations. This
      would then increase its share of local, International and transit freight traffic. It was anticipated
      that the effort would result in: -

         l Heightening of railroad competition consequently reducing overall transport costs;
         l Balancing of the respective share of freight traffic between rail and road modes thereby
               reducing traffic on roads for long distance bulk traffic. This would lead to reduce
               budgetary provision for costly road maintenance, rehabilitation and expansions country
               wide;
         l ZR linked to other International railway corridors becoming more efficient and cost
               effective. This would lead to more trade between countries along the corridors;
         l ZR becoming self sustaining financially and be able to reward its capital providers;
         l Government reduction on budgetary deficit through receipt of concession fees, taxes and
               hire and lease charges;
         l Government, generating more foreign exchange through transit and International freight
               traffic.


                                                    - 33 -

3.    Project components and analysis

      The project has eight (8) components as follows: -
         l Railway Concession;
         l Zambia Railways staff rationalization;
                  Staff retrenchment;
                  Pension obligations;
         l Assets rehabilitation;
         l Environmental mitigation;
         l ZRL Restructuring and winding up;
         l Railways Regulatory Framework;
         l MCT capacity strengthening;
         l Social Mitigation;


      Analysis of each component therefore provides an assessment of project performance as
      determined by the project coordinator.

  3.1 Railway Concession (RSZ)

      The concession started in December 2003 and has been in operation for approximately 15 months.
      Zambia Railways Limited was appointed as the monitor. The component provided financing to
      cover:

         l Costs of advisory services to design negotiate, implement and monitor the concession
              agreements;
         l Legal support during preparation and negotiation of concession, articles of incorporation
              and shareholder agreements as well as contract interpretation and dispute resolution;
         l Assistance in addressing questions of concession finance, accounting, asset valuation and
              resource mobilization;
         l Assistance in specialized technical matters including environmental issues;
         l Assistance in market intelligence and assessment.


      While the concession has demonstrated a considerable enhancement of performance in the past 15
      months, there are still a few issues of concern. It should however be noted that the concession in
      the railway sector is the first experience of this kind and provides a number of learning lessons: -

         l Lack of agreed monitoring schedule framework or procedures between RSZ and the
              Government Inspector of Railways GIR under ZRL. This caused considerable friction
              been RSZ and the monitors in their efforts to manage the concession; However, this is
              being addressed and confidence is slowly building between RSZ and ZRL/GIR. The
              schedule is now being considered by both ZRL and RSZ;
         l RSZ not adhering to concession agreements regarding to timetable for effective
              rehabilitation of the main railway track. The quick fix approach for trouble spots is
              inadequate to meet the desires as agreed in the concession. May be the concessionaire was
              a bit ambitious in its negotiating strategy;
         l Limited investment in rolling stock maintenance leading to obsolete wagons and passenger
              coaches;
         l The market share of RSZ to International rail freight traffic is uncertain due to the lack of



                                                   - 34 -

              agreement between TAZARA and RSZ and the upcoming direct threat to loss of freight
              traffic to the proposed Chipata/Mchinji railway and the North Western railway lines when
              they become fully operation in approximately 36 months;
        l Other ideas are floating to build a spur between Ndola and Serenje just to avoid
              unfavorable business conditions offered by RSZ between Ndola and Kapiri Mposhi;
        l The concession fees so far paid by RSZ to GRZ only constitute 50% of total amount that
              should have been paid at this point in time;
        l Passenger services on the main line between Kitwe and Livingstone are not regular as
              agreed due to lack of security especially between Choma and Lusaka, and Kapiri-Mposhi
              and Ndola during the night;
        l Freight and passenger trains travel at very low speed leading to slow turn over of goods
              and services between Kitwe and Livingstone;
        l The analysis of the ZRL in part 11.2, 13.0 and 14.0 are fully supported. However,
              considering the problems faced in the ongoing implementation of the concession, it is quite
              clear that Zambia had a raw deal in concessioning the railway line;
        l Regarding participation of Zambia Privatization Agency in the Concessioning process and
              the subsequent out come agreement, it appears that ZPA did not at the time of negotiating
              the concession have adequate capacity to closely scrutinize the clauses especially regarding
              how such clauses would impact on the Zambian economy and the investor's economic
              interest. It appears, there was too much leeway in favor of the investor in coming up with
              the concession agreement. This is a lesson that needs to be considered in all future
              concession negotiations.

3.2. Zambia Railways Staff rationalization

     At the beginning of project, ZRL had a staff strength of 3,300 employees out of which 800 were
     taken or employed by the concessionaire, and 2500 were retrenched. 25 continued with ZRL
     ongoing. This component has two sub-components:

        l staff retrenchment;
        l pension obligation.


     The component was implemented by ZRL and provided funds for severance packages of retrenched
     staff. GRZ had to meet the pension scheme obligations.

     Analysis:
     The analysis made by ZRL in part 5.0 is fully supported. However, the number of outstanding
     court cases for residual payments and sale of housing units is a source of concern. ZRL will still
     be held liable to meet the outstanding costs to these cases. The component therefore performed
     satisfactorily.

3.3. Asset Rehabilitation

     This has substantially been done. RSZ though need to decide what to do with scrap metal and
     other disused assets that they don't wish to maintain. This component was substantially and
     satisfactorily completed.

3.4  Environment Mitigation




                                                  - 35 -

     This component was implemented by ZRL and was provided to procure pollution control
     equipment especially in the areas surrounding the ZRL workshops. The exercise required
     preparation of an Environment Management Plan, buying and Installation of pollution control
     equipment and specialized services for cleaning of all contaminated sites.

     The component has substantially been completed although minor work still needs to be done i.e.:

        l Complete cleaning the contaminated sites especially at the railway workshops yard;
        l Installation of fume extraction at the workshops;
        l Equipping of oil separators at the workshops site in order to avoid direct pollution of river
             systems close to the site.

3.5  ZRL restructuring and winding-up

     This component deals with remaining works after restructuring of the ZRL and concessioning of
     the main line. These include:

        l Maintenance of office structures, plant and equipments, disposal and account of residual
             assets;
        l Procurement of accounting and mechanical software for use in Monitoring the concession;
        l Procurement of equipment and staff training;
        l Plan for management and maintenance of the Victoria Falls Bridge.


     This component was satisfactorily completed. It is hoped that by end of project in June 2005, the
     consultants engaged to assess the integrity of the Victoria Falls Road/Rail Bridge would have
     completed the works and a decision made on the way forward. It is also not clear whether the
     monitoring soft ware has been procured, installed and applied.

3.6. Railway Legislation and Regulatory Framework

     This component was implemented by the MCT together with ZRL. The component provided for a
     study to assess and identify the effectiveness of the existing scope, functions, and instruments for
     the economic regulatory frame work, recommend the sectoral coverage and accountability
     relationships for the regulatory institutions; to define the staffing, internal organization, operating
     costs and financing mechanisms for a new safety and environment ­ related regulatory agency and
     to prepare supportive legislation, provision of plant and equipment and staff training.

     This component has been substantially completed. The study has been done and final report
     submitted to MCT by CIE consult in April 2005. Although the original plan was aimed at
     implementing the recommendations of the study within the project period, this is not possible due to
     delays in completing the study. A decision will soon be made to plan for the implementation of
     recommendations there in. The report in summary presents:

        l An overview of the agencies currently and potentially involved in the railway sector in
             Zambia, including proposals for the licensing of Railways operators and regulations of the
             railway safety;
        l Discussions on the need for railway sector specific economic regulation and application of
             environmental regulation to the railway sector, including the role that can be played by the
             Zambia Competition Commission and the Environment Council of Zambia;


                                                  - 36 -

        l An outline of the existing legal framework and a draft new forward-looking railway
             legislation that caters for a liberalized sector that encourages private sector participation;
             and
        l Arrangements for concession monitoring and a review of the capacity skills and training
             requirements of Ministry of Communications and Transport with special reference to the
             Planning Unit.

3.7. Ministry of Communications and Transport Capacity Strengthening

     This component was implemented by the Ministry of Communications and Transport and covered
     the following aspects: -

        l Review and define the framework for developing and overseeing transport policy;
        l Define the new functions of the Ministry of Communications and Transport to discharge
             its role;
        l Assess Ministry of Communications and Transport's organizational structure in the
             framework of its evolving role;
        l Determining staffing requirements taking into account Government Civil Service reform
             program;
        l Consultancy services and office equipment.


     The component is related and is partly covered by works/studies done under the Railways
     Regulatory framework component. The computer networking of all its major offices will assist to
     properly maintain a transport database in the country. The facility will assist monitoring trends in
     implementation of the transport policy and further facilitate internet for ease of access to
     information and communication amongst the staff.

     The Transport and Communications sectors are undergoing structural reforms. The new functions
     of the Ministry of Communications and Transport together with its organizational structures will
     therefore finally be determined after completion of the reform process. Staffing requirements will
     thereafter be decided and placements carried out. The Ministry of Communications and Transport,
     has however, procured a number of plant and equipment for an effective operation. These will
     largely be used by the planning department and the Government Inspector of Railways. A plan to
     procure additional plant, equipment and furniture is being implemented.

     On staff capacity building, the Ministry of Communications and Transport has trained over 90
     members of staff in various disciplines relevant to its operation.

     The component can therefore be considered to have performed quite satisfactorily.

3.8. Social Mitigation

     This component was implemented by the National Social Safety Net (NSSN) Department under the
     Ministry of Labour and Social Security. The component provided support for mitigating the
     impact of retrenching the Zambia Railways Limited employees using results and recommendations
     of a major social mitigation assessment study. Counseling was done well in advance of actual
     retrenchment using experienced professional organizations. Retrenched workers were retrained and
     prepared for alternative employment. Those who opted to resettle on land were assisted.




                                                   - 37 -

         A number of former Zambia Railways Limited workers benefited in social counseling (932); small
         business awareness (632) out of which 533 underwent entrepreneurship training; Agriculture
         based training (330); 510 underwent vocational training and 224 were allocated land to settle. 10
         boreholes were sunk and are under use while two feeder roads are being fully rehabilitated.

         Once the feeder roads are done, the component could be said to have performed satisfactorily.

4.       Conclusion

The project implementation period underwent very trying moments especially at the beginning when there
was a strenuous political climate in the country. The policy shift towards privatization of state enterprises
was however a major booster towards concessioning of the railway line. The concessioning process being
the first of its kind in the sector proved quite challenging especially for the Zambia Privatization Agency.
The country at the time lacked competent capacity to negotiate for a better concession deal. Some of the
currently observed shortcomings in the implementation of the concession are as a result of short sightedness
on the part of the negotiating team regarding what the country would benefit from the concession. However
all other components of the project performed quite satisfactorily.

The project was however implemented in accordance with the set objectives and in line with both
Government and World Bank standard project implementation frameworks. Capacity building for
negotiating such a concession is a must and must be encouraged in all future development programs
involving private sector participation.

It is therefore recommended that the little savings towards the end of the project be ploughed back to
strengthen operational capacity of the Ministry of Communications and Transport especially the
Government inspectorate unit and the Planning Department.

The few areas of action that were not completed within the project period need to be identified and actioned
by ZRL in conjunction with MCT. This may entail budgetary provisions in the 2006 national budget.




                                                       - 38 -

Additional Annex 10. Additional Information

Zambia Railways Concession

Background: Zambia Railways Limited was formerly the North-Western Region of Rhodesia Railways
with its regional headquarters at Kabwe, while the company's headquarters was in Bulawayo I Southern
Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe. The construction of the railway line started at the Victoria Falls Bridge back in
1903 at the border with Zimbabwe, and was connected to what is now the Democratic Republic of Congo
(DRC) in 1909. In 1967, the Zambian government passed the Zambian Railways Act, which gave birth to
the Zambia Railways Board. In 1978, the government decided that Zambia Railways should transfer to
Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO) with effect from January 1979. This transfer required
the incorporation of a new company limited by shares and the dissolution of the Zambia Railways Board.
In 1982, the Railways Act vested all assets and liabilities of Zambia Railways Board into Zambia Railways
Limited (ZRL), a company incorporated under the Companies Act of Zambia. The transfer provided
greater autonomy to ZRL to take its own managerial decisions and to determine its own tariffs. The mission
of the company was to provide effective and efficient freight and passenger rail services operated on
commercial principles.

Railway Performance: Traffic volumes of ZRL have been falling for many years. Freight traffic exceeded
6 million tons in 1975, representing over 1.4 billion net ton-kilometers (net ton km). By 1988, traffic levels
had declined to 4.5 million tons, and by 1998 to 1.4 million tons. The decline in traffic volumes was
attributed mainly to the inefficiency, excess employment, low productivity, waste, poor management of
train operations, lack of incentives, and inadequate accountability of staff normally associated with state
owned railway enterprises.

Linkage to the Country Assistance Strategy: The 1999 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) addressed
three strategic areas, based on consultations with the Government of the Republic of Zambia as follows: (i)
the removal of constraints to sustainable diversified economic growth; (ii) improved governance; and (iii)
better access to basic services and direct poverty interventions. Excessively high transportation costs due to
poor transport infrastructure was particularly noted as one of the major impediments to private sector
investment and growth. Government particularly identified Zambia Railways Limited, a state railway
transportation enterprise as one of the priority entities which required privatization. In line with the CAS,
and the governments own policy of economic liberalization and divesting of state owned enterprises
(SOEs), the government approved the privatization of the Zambia Railways Limited in March 2000.

Concession Structure: The proposed concession model was a vertically integrated, but fragmented into
geographical and business segments as follows: (i) Package A- short haul inter-mine Freight Services,
encompassing lines running between mining towns: from Kitwe to Chingola, Chililabombwe, Mufulira,,
and from Ndola to Luanshya, with access rights on the mainline from Kitwe to Ndola. This was to be a
twenty years (20) concession with two possible extensions of five (05) years each, to bring the total
possible concession duration to Thirty (30) years; (ii) Package B- long haul mainline freight services,
encompassing the current mainline running from The Zimbabwe boarder to Kitwe, and from Ndola to
Sakania to the border with the Democratic Republic of Congo, including the branch line from Choma to
Masuku. This was to be a twenty years (20) concession with two possible extensions of five (05) years
each, to bring the total possible concession duration to Thirty (30) years. Bids for package B were required
to also bid for passenger services, package C, as described below; and (iii) Package C - Passenger Services
between Livingstone and Kitwe. Bidders were allowed to bid for package C alone. However, any bid for
package B were to also include a bid for C. This was to avoid a situation where no bidder would have bid



                                                      - 39 -

for C. The concession period for this concession was to be seven (7) years with two possible extensions of
two (2) years each, to bring the total possible concession to eleven (11) years.

The main features of the concession were: (i) that the concession would include infrastructure as well as an
identified number of core operating assets such as locomotives, wagons, workshop equipment, etc; (ii)
infrastructure and core operating assets would be owned by Government or an asset holding company, but
maintained and rehabilitated by the concessionaire during the period of the concession; and (iii) at the end
of the period, the track, rolling stock, land and buildings along with the other fixed railway infrastructure
will revert to the Government. Mulobezi branch, which runs from Livingstone to Mulobezi, was not
included in the concession packages, as it was deemed to be un-attractive at the time, and would have only
reduced the attractiveness and value of the concession, if included.

Concession fee structure: The proposed concession fee structure comprised: (i) a one off entry concession
fee of USD250,000.00 for package A, USD500,000.00 for package B, USD750,000.00 for package A+B.
(ii) variable concession fee of 5% of total annual revenues; and (iii) a fixed annual concession fee for each
year of the concession term, which was to be proposed by the bidders. The bidder was not required to pay
either an entry or variable concession fees for package C.

The Selection Process: The Zambia Railways Concession was advertised in both local and international
print media including Internet on July 4, 2001. During the tender period, 8 prospective bidders purchased
bidding documents at a cost of $5,000. A bidders' conference was conducted on August 28, 2001 at which
all issues relating to the bidding documents and the concession were clarified. The final bidding documents
were issued on September 21, 2001. On December 7, 2001, the tender closed and four bidders submitted
technical and financial proposals as shown in table below.

Table 1. Prospecting Concessionaire Participating

       BIDDER                                       Package A  Package B     Package C     Package A+B
 1     Edlow Resources (Bermuda)                         X           X              v             v
 2     Sheltam Group (South Africa)                      v           v              v             v
 3     CANAC (Canada) in cooperation with                X           X              v             v
       Norconsult (Norway)
 4     New Limpopo Bridge Project Investments Ltd.       X           X              v             v
       (NLPI) and Spoornet (South Africa) Consortium


 v     Bid submitted for the package
 X     No bid submitted for the package

Technical and Financial Evaluation: Two bidders obtained the minimum score to pass the technical
evaluation. These were CANAC/Norconsult and NLPI/Spoornet. The financial proposals of the two
qualified bidders were opened on January 18, 2002. NPLI/Spoornet offer to pay GRZ a total of $253.5
million spread over a period of 20 years in respect to the freight packages A+B; and a negative inflow of
$7.4 million for package C for a 7-year period. CANAC's offer reached $20.9 million for the freight
packages A+B and a negative inflow of $16.7 million for package C for a 7-year period.

Negotiations and Signing: Zambia Privatization Agency Board appointed an independent negotiating team
chaired by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor for the Copperbelt University. The legal advisors were Linklaters
and Alliance of the United Kingdom and the railway concessioning experts were from CPCS Transcom of
Canada. Local advisors included a financial expert from DCDM Consulting of Lusaka, Director of



                                                       - 40 -

Planning from the Ministry of Communications and Transport, a senior legal expert from the Attorney
General's Chambers, and senior ZPA technical staff. Negotiations commenced with NLPI/Spoornet
Consortium on February 13, 2002 while the bid by CANAC/Norconsult was put on reserve. The freight
concession agreement was cleared by the Attorney General and signed by Honorable Minister of Finance
and National Planning, ZRL, NPLI and RSZ, the concessionaire, on February 14, 2003, while the
passenger concession was signed on August 8, 2003.

Financial Closure and commencement of operations: The closing of the transaction, including the legal
formalities and completion of conditions precedents, took place on November 25, 2003 and the
concessionaire RSZ took over both the freight and passenger operations on December 3, 2003. RSZ paid
the entry fee of $750,000. The concessionaire will be paying concession fees of 5% of revenue (variable
fees) on a quarterly basis. In addition, the concessionaire will pay pre-agreed fixed concession fees (fixed
fees) amounting to $253 million spread over a period of 20 years. The fixed concession fees will be
payable annually at the anniversary of the concession.

Railway Systems of Zambia is owned by a consortium consisting of the following companies as presented
in the concession agreement: (i) New Limpopo Project Investors (NLPI); (ii) Mr. Mordechai Tager
Israeli/UK; (iii) Elani Family Trust Israeli/UK; (iv) Sanlam Insurance South Africa; (v) Old Mutual
Assurance South Africa; (vi) Nedcor Bank South Africa; (vii) Spoornet South Africa.

Bank guarantees and investment commitments: As part of the concession agreement signed, the
concessionaire submitted two bank guarantees of $2 million and $125,000 for the freight and passenger
concession agreements, respectively. The guarantees will be released after RSZ has invested a total of $15
million in the track, rolling stock and railway equipment within the first five years.

Performance of the Concession: The railway concession was awarded in December 2003, and the
concessionaire has now been in operation for more than a year. During the first twelve months of operation,
the concessionaire experienced several startup problems, and the level of investment on periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation of the main line has been modest and did not reach the level expected by the
government. However, in 2004, the concessionaire was able to increase the net ton kilometer of traffic in
comparison to the 2003 base year. With the opening up of the copper mines in the north western province,
and the increasing copper production on the Copper belt, there are now greater prospects for the
concessionaire to scale up traffic tonnage in the short to medium term. It is too soon to properly assess the
performance of the concession, though the prospects of achieving a competitive and safe rail service
provided by a private operator are very good.

Key Characteristics of the Railway Line

    Ø        Gauge                                          1,067 mm
    Ø        Route Length                                   1,266 Km
    Ø        Number of Interchange Stations                 3
    Ø        Number of Goods Stations                       20
    Ø        Number of Private Sidings                      205
    Ø        Number of Marshalling Yards                    6
    Ø        Freight services and rolling stock included: general purpose wagons, covered wagons,
             containers, tank wagons, and livestock wagons.
    Ø        Signaling and Telecommunications. The main line between Livingstone and Kitwe was
             controlled by means of a microprocessor-based Centralized Trains Control (CTC) system from
             a control centre in Kabwe


                                                     - 41 -

    Ø         Motive Power. The company owned 59 main line and 12 branch line/shunting diesel electric
              locomotives of 2,150 hp and 1,650 hp rating respectively. Of the total number of locomotives
              about 45 were active in 2000.
    Ø         Workshops. The central workshop located at Kabwe was reasonably equipped with general
              and specialized equipment for performing heavy repairs and overhauls of rolling stocks. It also
              carried wagon assembly works. Minor and running repairs were done at line points.

Staff Rationalization: The objective of this component was to ensure that retrenched employees from ZR
are timely and adequately paid their severance and pension packages. The component was to be
implemented by ZR, and had two subcomponents as follows:

Staff Retrenchment - Based on ZR railway operations experience at the time of project appraisal, and as
confirmed by the consultants who undertook the Private Sector Participation Study, it was estimated that,
the concessionaire would engage between 800 to 1800 staff of the 3,300 staff as at March 2000. To be on
the safe side and avoid the situation of shortfall of funds to finance retrenchment, the allocation of funds for
this component was based on an estimated staff compliment of 900 by the concessionaire and a
corresponding staff retrenchment of about 2,400 staff. In 2000, ZR had negotiated with the RWUZ a
retrenchment package which comprised 3.2 months of salary for every year of service. Using this package
and assuming that all staff (3,300) would be retrenched, Zambia Railways Limited had estimated the cost
of retrenchment to be about US$21.0 million. The proportionate cost of retrenchment of 2,400 staff was
estimated to be about US$15.2 million. In addition, a contingency of 15% was provided to cope with any
variations in the package or the number and categories of staff to be retrenched. The sequence of
retrenchment, as developed in agreement with ZPA, ZR and the government was as follows: (i) 700 staff
would be retrenched immediately after the credit became effective; and (ii) the remaining staff would be
retrenched after the Concessionaire was in position and had selected the required staff. The criteria to be
used for identifying surplus staff was already agreed with the union as follows: (a) the Concessionaire was
to select the staff required from among the ZRL staff; and (b) the remaining staff were to be retrenched
after the concessionaire had selected the staff according to his requirements.

Pension Fund Obligation ­ Over several years, ZR had defaulted on transferring pension contributions of
staff to the Pension Fund. Consequently staff who were entitled to pension Benefits under the Zambia
Railways Pension Rules (either a refund of contributions or a deferred pension on reaching the retirement
age), could not be paid their dues by the Pension Fund. The responsibility for this accumulated liability
rested upon ZR. It was quite certain that the retrenchment efforts would have been stalled unless ZR met
this liability prior to commencement of the retrenchment process. ZR assured that the balance of about
US$1.0 million equivalent would be paid to the Pension Fund by December 31, 2000, and the remaining
areas of about US$0.7 million would be paid within six months of the credit effectiveness by April 2001.
This liability was met by ZRL prior to the commencement of the concession.




                                                      - 42 -

- 43 -

