Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21073-ZM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21 MILLION
(US$27 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OCTOBER 18, 2000
Transport
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 20, 2000)
Currency Unit = Zambia Kwacha (ZMK)
= Us$
US$1 = ZMK 3330.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CDF             Comprehensive Development Framework
DRC             Democratic Republic of Congo
ECZ             Environmental Council of Zambia
EMP             Environment Management Plan
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
FRR             Financial Rate of Return
GRZ             Govenument of the Republic of Zambia
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDA             International Development Association
IFAC            International Federation of Accountants
MCT             Ministry of Communications and Transport
MCTI            Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry
MFED            Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MLSS            Ministry of Labour and Social Security
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NTKM            Net Ton Kilometer
NPV             Net Present Value
NSSN            National Social Safety Net
PAS             Project Accounting System
PIP             Project Implementation Plan
PMR             Project Management Report
PHRD            Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PSO             Public Service Obligation
ROADSIP         Road Sector Investmnent Program
RWUZ            Railway Workers Union of Zambia
SA              Special Account
SADC            Southern Africa Development Community
SATCC           Southern Africa Transport and Communications Commission
SDR             Special Drawving Right
SIDA            Swedish International Development and Cooperation Agency
SOE             Statement of Expenditure
ZCCM            Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Limited
ZPA             Zambia Privatization Agency
ZR              Zambia Railways
ZRL             Zambia Railways Limited
ZRRP            Zambia Railways Restructuring Project
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:       Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager/Director:      Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Yash Pal Kedia



ZAMBIA
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Sumnmary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           17
2. Financial                                                                          17
3. Technical                                                                          18
4. Institutional                                                                      19
5. Environmental                                                                      22
6. Social                                                                             23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     26
2. Critical risks                                                                     26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     27



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            27
2. Other                                                                              27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         43
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   44
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  63
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            64
Annex 11: Social Impact Analysis                                                        635
MAP(S)
IBRD 31135



ZAMBIA
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Afiica Regional Office
AFTTR
Date: October 18, 2000                             Team Leader: Yash Pal Kedia
Country Manager/Director: Yaw Ansu                 Sector Manager/Director: Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project ID: P003227                                Sector(s): TW - Railways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Private Sector; Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ Loan           3 Credit       O Grant          El Guarantee    OI Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 27
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: not exceeding 0.5%                      Service charge: 0.75%
GOVERNMENT                                                       4.00            0.00           4.00
IDA                                                             19.20            7.80         27.00
Total:                                                          23.20            7.80         31.00
Borrower: GRZ
Responsible agency: ZRL, ZPA, MCT, NSSN
Zambia Railways Limited
Address: P.O. Box 80935, Kabwe, Zambia
Contact Person: L. Janesson, Acting Managing Director
Tel: 260-5-221197                 Fax: 260-5-224411                 Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Zambia Privatisation Agency
Address: Nasser Road, P.O. Box 30819, Lusaka, Zambia
Contact Person: S.A. Cruickshank, Chief Executive
Tel: 260-1-22-3859               Fax: 260-1-225270                 Email: zpa@zpa.org.zm
Ministry of Communications and Transport
Address: P.O. Box 50066, Lusaka, Zambia
Contact Person: B. Nonde, Permanent Secretary
Tel: 260-1-254158               Fax: 260-1-253260                 Email:
National Social Safety Net
Address: Fourth Floor Lusaka House
P.O. Box 32186, Lusaka, Zambia
Contact Person: Ngosa Chisupa, Director
Tel: 260-1-237981                 Fax: 260-1-237983



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual    16.0          .4.0
Cumulative    16.0       23.0       27.0
Project implementation period: January 2001 - December 2003
Expected effectiveness date: 01/15/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2004
OCS PAD F- R. UP, 200
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project development objective is to enable Zambia Railways (ZR), through restructuring and
privatization, to substantially increase its operating efficiency, reduce its cost of operations, and configure
its freight services and tariffs to meet customers' requirements and expectations, and consequently, to
increase its share of the local, international, and transit freight traffic. Additionally efforts of a privatized
and efficient ZR to increase its share of freight traffic are expected to result in:
1. Heightening of rail-road competition and, consequently, overall reduction in transport costs, leading to
the Zamnbian economy becoming globally more competitive and growth-oriented;
2. Balancing of the respective shares of freight traffic between rail and road modes; this would result in a
significant reduction of traffic on road, particularly the long-haul and bulk traffic, and therefore a
significant reduction in the ideal budgetary allocation of funds for the maintenance, rehabilitation and
expansion of the road network in Zambia. (Note: Due to funding constraints, the budgetaly allocations
for road maintenance and rehabilitation in the recent years have been grossly inadequate. As cost
recovery improves as a result of mechanisms being put in place under the on-going Road Sector
Investment Program (ROADSIP), the budgetary allocations for road maintenance are expected to
increase, but the levels to which these need to increase would be lower.)
3. The ZR-linked international rail corridors becoming more efficient and cost effective, leading to more
trade between countries along these corridors, viz., South Africa, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Zambia,
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Botswana, Uganda (after the setting up of inter-gauge
transshipment facilities in Tanzania), and Angola (after the reopening of the Lobito rail link);
4. ZR becoming financially self-sustaining and being in a position to reward its capital providers;
5. The Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) being able to reduce its budgetary deficit through
receipt of concession fees, taxes, and hire and lease charges; and
6. Zambia generating more foreign exchange through a shift of considerable transit and international
traffic from mostly foreign road hauliers to ZR.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key indicators of success would be:
1. The speed with which concessions negotiations are commenced and concessions operationalized, the
target dates being June 30, 2001, and three months after signing of the concession agreements,
respectively;
2. Freight traffic on rail, the targets for the years 2000 to 2003 being 1.65, 1.8, 2.00, and 2.4 million tons,
respectively;
3. Transit traffic on rail, the targets for the years 2000 to 2003 being 200,000; 220,000; 240,000; and
260,000 tons, respectively;
4. Progressively increasing arnount of income tax paid by the concessionaires; and
5. Progressively increasing total cash flow from the concessionaires to GRZ.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19889             Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/17/99
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) addresses three strategic priority areas, based on consultations
with GRZ: (i) the removal of constraints to sustainable, diversified growth; (ii) improved govemance; and
- 3 -



(iii) better access to basic services and direct poverty interventions. These strategic areas provide the basic
building blocks for the current working version of the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF)
matrix. The challenge articulated in the CAS is to help Zambia move to a sustainable growth path that
directly leads to more rapid growth and poverty reduction in the future. Underscoring the importance of
diversified growth, two thirds of new operations and 75% of IDA lending under the CAS period
concentrate on removing constraints to diversified growth.
Inadequate infrastructure has been identified as a major bottleneck for private investment and diversified
growth. The CAS states that, "reducing transport costs will help increase competitiveness and underpin
growth in agriculture, tourism, manufacturing, and mining." The CAS states that IDA will support a
project to facilitate private participation in the operation and management of ZR, to enable the railways to
increase operating efficiency and, consequently, its share of the freight market. By creating the conditions
necessary for the efficient and sustained operation of the railway system, the proposed project would enable
the rail operators to increase their gross and net revenue. In particular, project funds will facilitate private
concessioning of ZR and retrenchment of surplus railway staff.
In addition, the Project can be seen as a critical element in the overall framework of economic and
structural reforms being undertaken by the Zambian Government. An efficient rail transportation network
is key given the landlocked situation of the country, the need to leverage past investment, and the challenge
of high costs of road transportation. An efficiently managed and financially viable railway network is also
fundamental to the future success of the recently privatized copper mines. Finally, given the recent trends
in restructuring of railway enterprises in Sub-Saharan Africa, the Bank's strategy to support railway
concessioning in Zambia is not only timely but also essential. Indeed, there is a market opportunity for
railways at this time, and ZRRP has the elements to assist GRZ in leveraging this interest and attracting
niche players by providing the right incentives.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main transport sector issues are: (a) the high cost of transport; (b) perceptions of an uneven playing
field between rail and road; (c) the high level of financial support from the Govemment to all transport
sub-sectors; (d) the poor condition of rail and road infrastructure; (e) the high rate of accidents and poor
record of safety; and (f) the slow rate of regional consolidation.
High Cost of Transport. The overall cost of transport in Zambia continues to be excessively high. Road
tariffs range from US$0.07 to 0.10 per net ton kilometer (ntkm). Although still lower than the average
road tariff, the average rail tariff (about US$0.04/ntkm) is almost twice the level of efficiently run
railways, such as in USA. Moreover, ZR rail users currently have to face costs induced by unpredictability
of operations, frequent delays, improper handling and storage of goods, derailments, and accidents. The
abnormally high transport costs are eroding the global competitiveness of most commodities and adversely
affecting exports. The main reason for the continuing high transport costs is the absence of effective
inter-modal and intra-rail competition. The absence of competition is in tum the result of the railways'
declining performnance and its inability to provide an acceptable level of services. The Government's
strategy to reduce these costs is to create conditions that would enhance inter and intra-rail competition
within the country. Inter-modal competition is proposed to be enhanced by enabling both the railways and
the road hauliers to operate more efficiently, the railways through the involvement of private sector in the
operation and management of key railway functions, and the road hauliers through provision of improved
roads, facilities for training of entrepreneurs and staff, and easing of border crossing facilities. Intra-rail
competition is proposed to be enhanced by opening the railway infrastructure to more than one operator
after an agreed period of exclusivity for the concessionaires.
- 4 -



Perceptions of an Uneven Playing Field. ZRL has for many years been stressing the absence of a level
playing field for the rail and road sub-sectors, arguing that: (a) road user charges amount to only a fraction
of the entire cost of road maintenance, whereas the railways are required to maintain their infrastructure by
themselves without any financial support from the Government; and (b) the road user charges for the
large-capacity road vehicles, which are the railways' main competitors, do not adequately reflect the
relationship between high axle loads and the resulting road degradation. This situation, according to ZRL,
has so far given an unfair advantage to the road hauliers and has been the main cause of the railways'
declining traffic. The fact, however, is that in spite of the road user charges being low, the road tariffs in
Zarnbia have continued to remain substantially higher than the corresponding rail tariffs. An efficiently
performing and customer focused ZR could have maintained its share of fl-eight traffic at a considerably
higher level in spite of the stated disadvantage. Even so, the Government's strateg' is to increase road user
fees to cover short term maintenance and upkeep of all roads. This would definitely benefit the railways.
However the projections of traffic, and hence the concession fees, are based on the current cost recovery
levels for roads.
High Level of Govemment Financial Support to the Sector. The Govemment currently provides
substantial financial support to all the transport sub-sectors. In the road sub-sector, despite GRZ's efforts
to improve cost recovery, revenues continue to lag behind the road network's capital and maintenance
requirements. In the railways sector, although the Govemment is no longer providing a direct operating
subsidy to ZRL, it has from time to time been forced to write off its loans as ZRL has never been in a
position to service them. Continuous neglect of maintenance of assets by ZRL has caused those assets to
deteriorate to such an extent that a substantial injection of private or public capital would be necessary to
prevent the railways from collapse. The Government's strategy to reduce its financial support to these
sectors is to continue improving cost recovery from road users and to open the rail sector to private sector
participation.
Deteriorating Condition of Inftastructure. Despite the high tariffs and substantial past investments, the
rail infrastructure is in very poor condition. Three reasons account for this: (a) the poor quality of
maintenance, which has resulted in faster-than-normal deterioration of the infrastructure; (b) concentration
of huge amounts of funds on certain sections of the infrastructure and development of these sections to
unnecessarily high standards while starving others of even the minimum basic maintenance; and (c)
adoption of highly sophisticated technology both in track and signaling and high dependence on imports of
parts and skills. The road infrastructure has similarly suffered due to the shortage of funds caused by
inadequate cost recovery from road users, lack of enforcement of axle load regulations, and inefficient
maintenance. As the Government's capacity to finance the required capital expenditure remains poor, the
transport infrastructure is at considerable risk of further deterioration. The Government Strategy to
improve the infrastructure is to open the rail sector to private participation and increase the road user
charges to cover at least the short-term marginal cost of roads.
High Rate ofAccidents and Poor Record of Safety. The rate of accidents on both roads and railways
remains very high. Inadequate safety consciousness, lack of investment in safety equipment and training of
staff, and inadequate enforcement of safety regulations have been the main reasons for the high rate of
accidents. The Government's strategy is to emphasize improved traffic management as well as improve
and enforce safety regulations.
Inadequate environmental management. An environmental audit of the railways has shown the absence of
an environmental policy and environmental management plan, as well as non-compliance with the
established environmental and safety standards. The Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ) has limited
- 5 -



capacity to enforce these standards. The Government Strate2v with regard to railways is to strengthen
ECZ so that it monitors compliance with the environmental and safety standards.
Slow Rate of Regional Integration. In spite of expressed intentions, the railways in the region have not yet
taken concrete steps to integrate their functions and activities and thereby take advantage of the economies
of scale and specialization necessary to achieve the high levels of efficiency and productivity expected of
railway systems. There is marked reluctance on the part of individual railways to give up any facilities or
functions. The concessioning of the railways could trigger regional integration, as the private sector seeks
to gain from advantages of scale by entering into appropriate contractual agreements with the neighboring
railways and other service providers. The Govemment does not yet have a clear strategy in this regard
except to make ZR a strong link between South Africa and DRC. The Govemment's expectation is that the
private operators, in their search for efficiency and productivity gains, will be more likely to work with the
neighboring railways to integrate many of the railway functions.
Governmnent Strategy for the Rail Sub-sector
Privatization. To address the issues described above, GRZ has decided to seek private sector participation
in the operation and management of the railways. The agreed mode of private sector participation would
be private concessioning of infrastructure and selling or leasing of locomotives and rolling stock. Private
sector participation is aimed at dealing with problems normally associated with public ownership and
management, viz., inefficiency, over investment, waste, excess employment, financial losses, and at
providing capital to address issues of deferred maintenance.
StaffRationalization. Staff rationalization is a key component of the GRZ strategy to improve efficiency
and cost effectiveness of public enterprises in general and the railways in particular. On July 1, 1998, ZRL
had a staff of 5,082 plus 800 "casual" workers. This has progressively been brought down to 3,293 by
natural attrition as well as retrenchment. The optimal staffing level for ZRL, however, is much lower.
According to the ZRL management, the optimal level is 1800, while according to the consultants the
railways can be run efficiently by only 800 staff. The potential concessionaires would probably settle on a
staffing level between 800 and 1800, thus requiring retrenchment of staff of between 1400 and 2400:
Regulatory Framework. The responsibility for safety and environment-related regulation for the railways
is currently exercised in an informal and unsatisfactory manner by ZRL itself. To avoid the inherent
conflict of interest, GRZ's strategy is to strengthen the existing regulatory bodies within and outside MCT,
and to enforce technical, environmental and economic regulation more effectively. The regulatory bodies
would be expected to deal with many of the issues discussed above, such as uneven playing field,
inadequate competition, and fair trade practices. The Govemment plans to explore the need for further
development of the regulatory framework and/or institutions.
ZRL Restructuring/winding up. Eventually ZRLwill hand over the freight and passenger business to
concessionaires. The future role of ZRL as an entity has still to be defined. ZRL may have need to
continue operating as a downsized state owned company with the responsibility of spinning off the
remaining commercial and non-commercial activities (i.e., not taken over by the concessionaires such as
guest-houses, clinics, football teams and police), discharging all its liabilities, selling off the remaining
assets, and finally winding itself up. ZRL may also have to be retained if: (i) no proposals are received for
the passenger concession and ZRL is required to continue operating these services; and (ii) ZRL is required
to serve as a holding company holding the infrastructure assets on behalf of the government.
- 6 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project will assist GRZ and ZRL in the:
1. Finalization and operationalization of private concessions for ZR's freight and passenger operations,
with the objective of reducing transport costs, improving the condition of infrastructure, contributing to
the Government's revenues, reducing accidents and improving safety, and improving compliance with
environmental standards;
2. Rationalization of staff through: (i) retrenchment of surplus staff; and (ii) counseling, retraining, and
re-deployment of retrenched staff, with the objective of reducing costs of operation and facilitating the
successful operationalization of the concession;
3. Strategic maintenance of key assets during the concessioning process and until the take over by the
concessionaire with a view to improving the performance of the railways during the concessioning
process and enabling the concessionaire to maximize performance in the shortest possible time after
takeover;
4. Development of an appropriate cost-effective regulatory franework with a view to improving
compliance with environmental and safety standards;
5. Appropriate winding up/restructuring of the residual ZRL after take over of the core railway system by
the concessionaire and spin-off of the remaining assets/activities; and
6. Strengthening of the Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT) with a view to enhancing its
conceptual and analytical capacity and the refinement and elaboration of the transport sector policy.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would consist of the following components:
(A)   Railway Concessioning
(B)   Staff Rationalization
* Staff Retrenchment
* Pension Obligations
(C)   Assets Rehabilitation
(D)   Environment Mitigation
(E)   ZRL Restructuring/Winding Up
(F)    Regulatory and Legal Framework
(G)   MCT Strengthening
(H)   Social Mitigation
Project Component A: Railway Concessioning
Cabinet, at its meeting on March 7, 2000, considered and approved the concessioning of ZR as
recommended by ZPA. To implement this decision and facilitate the private concessioning of the railways,
the following studies have been completed: (i) environmental impact assessment and audit study; (ii) asset
valuation study; (iii) in-house social impact assessment study of the staff retrenched so far by ZRL; and
(iv) social impact assessment study by external consultants.
The concessioning proposal finalized by ZPA envisages three separate concessions as follows:
- 7-



* a geographically separated but verfically integrated short-haul, inter-mine freight service concession
comprising the Ndola-Chingola section plus branches;
* a geographically separated but vertically integrated long-haul freight service concession comprising the
main line (Sakania-Livingstone); and
* an operating concession for a specified set of passenger services, being operated as public service
obligations.
This component would finance advisory services to implement the agreed concessioning proposal,
including: (i) advisory services, which ZPA may require to design, negotiate, implement and monitor
the concession agreements; (ii) legal assistance required for preparation and negotiation of concessions,
articles of incorporation and shareholder agreements, as well as for contract interpretation and dispute
resolution; (iii) assistance in addressing questions of finance, accounting, asset valuation, and resource
mobilization; (iv) assistance in specialized technical matters, including those pertaining to the
environment; and (v) assistance in market intelligence and assessment. Inputs for this component
would comprise consultant services and technical assistance.
Project Component B: Staff Rationalization
This component has two sub-components: (i) Staff Retrenchment; and (ii) Pension Obligations.
StaffRetrenchment. Based on the concessioning experience so far and confirmed by the estimates
produced by ZRL as well as the consultants who undertook the Private Sector Participation Study, the
concessionaires are likely to engage only between 800 to 1800 staff out of the current 3,300. To be on
the safe side and to avoid a situation of shortfall of funds to finance retrenchment, the allocation of
funds for this component is based on an estimated staff employment of 900 by the concessionaire and a
corresponding staff retrenchment of about 2,400 staff.
ZRL has recently negotiated with RWUZ a retrenchment package which comprises 3.2 months of
salary for every year of service. Using this package and assuming that all staff (3,300) would be
retrenched, ZRL has estimated the cost of retrenchment to be about US$21.0 million. The
proportionate cost of retrenchment of 2,400 staff would come to about US$15.2 million. A
contingency of 15% has been provided in addition to cope with any variations in the package or the
number and categories of staff to be retrenched.
The sequence of retrenchment, as developed in agreement with ZPA/ZRL/GRZ, is as follows: (a) 700
staff would be retrenched immediately after the Credit becomes effective, the criteria to be used for
identifying the surplus staff having already been agreed with the unions; (b) the remaining staff would
be retrenched after the concessionaires have selected the staff according to their requirement.
Pension Obligations. In the past ZRL has defaulted on transferring pension contributions from staff to the
Pension Fund. Consequently the staff, who are entitled to pension benefits under the Zambia Railways
Pension Rules (either a refund of contributions or a defetred pension on reaching the retirement age),
cannot be paid their dues by the Pension Fund. The responsibility for this accumulated liability lies with
ZRL. It is quite certain that the retrenchment efforts will get stalled unless ZRL meets this liability prior to
commencement of the retrenchment process. ZRL has assured that the balance, about US$1.0 million
equivalent, would be paid to the Pension Fund by December 31, 2001.
This component would finance the severance payments of permanent staff to be retrenched, and would be
implemented by ZRL.
-8 -



Project Component C: Assets Rehabilitation
The component would finance three key components to address simultaneously the three major operating
constraints, viz., inadequate availability of locomotives, poor condition of track, and excessive sidelining of
wagons on account of non-availability of wheels. The items to be financed comprise: (a) materials and
equipment for the overhaul of five main line locomotives; (b) strengthening of track by replacing a certain
percentage of sleepers for the 377 kms of track that is fitted with wooden sleepers and replacing wooden
sleepers in poor condition with concrete sleepers to complete the rehabilitation of the Chisamba-Lusaka
section; and (c) procurement of about 2,000 wagon wheels.
Locomotives. The overhaul of five mainline locomotives is overdue, and the longer the overhaul is
postponed the more expensive this would become. The cost for rehabilitation is estimated to be
US$240,000 per locomotive. Allocation: US$1.2 million (IDA).
Track sleepers. Replacement of one in every four sleepers is the most economical way of improving the
track condition in the short-term. Accordingly the project would include US$0.9 million for 60,000
sleepers (IDA) and about US$2.0 million (GRZ) for fastenings, ballast, rails, and crossings. The
component would also include 35,000 concrete sleepers to complete the rehabilitation of the
Chisamba-Lusaka section at a total cost of US$1.5 million (IDA). This section of track is important as it
has accounted for a large percentage of total derailments in the recent past. The section already has
concrete sleepers and use of wooden sleepers is not compatible. Allocation: US$2.4 million (IDA) and
US$2.0 million (ZRL).
Wagon wheels. Many wagons are running on wheels that have reached their technical limit of wear and
need to be replaced. The interchange loss on account of detention of defective wagons amounted to about
US$ 1.0. million during 1999. About 2,000 wheels are proposed to be procured at a cost of US$ 1.1 million
to be financed by IDA.
Project Component D: Environmental Mitigation
This component would comprise procurement of pollution-control equipment, such as oil separators and fume
extractors, with the objective of bringing the railways into compliance with national and international standards
for pollution control. These items have been identified and costed in a Environment Study Report.
Project Component E: ZRL Restructuring/Winding up
The future role of ZRL as an entity has yet to be defined. It is possible that ZRL may need to continue
operating as a downsized state-owned company with the responsibility of spinning-off the remaining
commercial and non-commercial activities (i.e., those not taken over by the concessionaires such as guest
houses, clinics, and police), discharging all its liabilities, selling off the remaining assets, and finally
winding itself up. ZRL may also have to be retained if: (i) no proposals are received for the passenger
concession and ZRL is required to continue operating these services; and (ii) ZRL is required to serve as a
holding company to hold the infrastructure assets on behalf of the government.
This component would comprise a study on the new role of ZRL and the hiving off of core and non-core
businesses and technical assistance for the implementation of the study recommendations. Inputs for this
component would comprise consultancy services and technical assistance.
-9-



Project Component F: Regulatory and Legal Framework
This component would include assistance to assess/identify the effectiveness of the existing scope,
functions, and instruments of the regulatory framework; (ii) recommend the sectoral coverage and
accountability relationships for the regulatory institution(s).
The component would also include the provision of equipment and technical assistance services to enable
the launching of the identified agency(ies) and the preparation of its staff. Additional finance provided
under this component would cover the technical aspects of the regulatory framework. Consultant services
for technical assistance and studies would be targeted at the development of the required capabilities within
MCT or any other institution identified for this purpose, to enable that institution to discharge its role in an
effective manner as a supervisor of the concession contracts.
The component would also include provision of technical assistance services for the setting up by the
Borrower of an Escrow Fund to be used for the payment of: (i) the retrenchment benefits pertaining to the
service of eligible employees of ZR; (ii) operating expenditures of any residual part of ZR in the event of
winding up, reorganization or privatization; (iii) debt service obligations; and (iv) costs of environmental
mitigation measures required.
Project Component G: MCT Strengthening
This component would include a study to (i) review and refine the framework for developing and overseeing
transport policy; (ii) define the new functions of MCT to discharge its role; (iii) assess MCT's
organizational structure in the framework of this evolving role; and (iv) determine staffing requirements,
taking into account GRZ's civil service reform program. The component would also include the provision
of consultant services for technical assistance to enable the implementation of the reconmmendations of the
study. Inputs for this component would comprise consultancy services and office equipment.
- 10 -



Project Component H: Social Mitigation
As indicated earlier, between 1400 and 2400 staff could be retrenched during the next one year. ZRL plans
to retrench 700 workers as soon as the Credit becomes effective and funds are available. While the
retrenchment payments will help, the loss of employment could have a seriously adverse impact on workers
unless the retrenchment process is carefully planned and implemented. Previous experience of
retrenchment in ZRL has not been encouraging, as about 5% of the retrenched workers have found formal
employment, another 20% have opened small enterprises, and another 5% have moved to the villages and
presumably smallholder agriculture.
The project has been designed to provide a comprehensive professionally organized approach to mitigating
the social imnpact of retrenchment. The component would be implemented by the National Social Safety
Net (NSSN), within the Ministry of Labour and Social Security (MLSS), which has substantial previous
experience in mitigation and training activities, and is being developed using the results and
recommendations of a major social mitigation assessment study. Counseling will be undertaken by
experienced professional organizations well in advance of actual retrenchment in order to prepare workers
for the initial period, especially with regard to the use of retrenchment compensation. Retraining and
re-orienting workers to altemative employment will utilize approved public and private training institutes,
and assistance in resettlement will be considered. It has also been agreed that additional mitigation
measures will, if necessary, be funded through the concession escrow account.
Project Cost Summary
Railway Concessioning              Privatization       1.00       3.2       1.00       3.7
Staff Rationalization              Public Enterprise    16.90    54.5      15.20      56.3
Reform
Assets Rehabilitation              Railways            6.70      21.6       4.70      17.4
Environmnental Mitigation          Pollution Control   0.30        1.0      0.30       1.1
/ Waste
Management
ZRL Restructuring/Winding up       Public Enterprise   0.50        1.6      0.50       1.9
Reformn
Regulatory and Legal Framework     Privatization       0.80       2.6       0.80       3.0
MCT Strengthening                  Institutional       0.50        1.6      0.50       1.9
Development
Social Mitigation                  Safety Nets         1.00       3.2       1.00       3.7
Contingencies                                          3.30       10.6      3.00      11.1
Total Project Costs                   31.00      100.0     27.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                   31.00      100.0     27.00      100.0
- 11 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The focus of the Project is on institutional reform. Key institutional reforms include: (a) private sector
participation in the operation and management of the railways; (b) staff rationalization and re-deployment
of redundant staff, (c) corporate restructuring of ZRL to enable it to spin-off the residual functions/assets
after take over of the main railway operations by the concessionaire and its eventual winding up; (d)
restructuring of MCT and enhancement of its conceptual and analytical capacity; and (e) establishment of a
regulatory framework.
3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed restructuring, downsizing, and concessioning of ZR is expected to result in a significant
improvement in the railway's operating efficiency and quality of service benefiting all stakeholders.
Specific benefits for various stakeholders are expected to be as follows:
a) for the customers - reduced transport costs; better quality and predictability of services; improved
national and international competitiveness; reduced accidents and lesser darnage to goods and life;
b) for the govemment - a better return on its investment in railways; increased revenue from the concession
fees and taxes; improved quality of infrastructure; and lower spending on road rehabilitation and
maintenance;
c) for the concessionaires and investors - an opportunity to get handsome returns on their investments; and
d) for the neighboring countries - reduced transport costs on their international traffic passing through
Zambia.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period. The project would be implemented over a period of 36 months, i.e., from January
1, 2001 to December 31, 2003. A mid-term review will be carried out jointly with IDA and the following
implementing agencies, no later than 18 months after the effective date of the Credit.
Executing Agencies:
(i) for Concessioning of Railways component: ZPA;
(ii) for Staff Rationalization, Assets Rehabilitation, Environmental Mitigation, and ZRL
Restructuring/Winding up components: ZRL;
(iii) for Regulatory Framework and MCT Strengthening components: MCT; and
(iv) for Social Mitigation component: NSSN.
MCT will be responsible for the overall coordination of the Project. This will involve the overall
supervision of the components, preparation of project reports, coordination of the mid-term review,
maintenance of special accounts, and ensuring timely replenishment of the three special accounts by their
respective implementing agencies.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The altematives for the revitalization of ZR have been under consideration for quite some time. The
Private Participation Study financed through the PHRD grant discussed a number of options before
recommending the selected option (see detailed discussion in Annex 2). Of the many options considered,
the option of outright sale of the railways was rejected on account of serious political concerns. The
following five options were considered and the first four were rejected. However, some features of the third
- 12 -



and the fourth options were integrated into the option that was finally recommended, viz., the fifth one.
The options considered were: (a) Restructuring but no privatization; (b) Restructuring and strengthening
the railways prior to concessioning; (c) separation of infrastructure from operations and concessioning of
infrastructure and licensing of multiple operators; (d) one integrated concession for the freight and
passenger services; and (e) separate concessions for the freight and passenger services as well for the
inter-mine and inter-city freight services.
1.    Restructuring but no privatization. Privatization of railways in the developing world being a
recent phenomenon, the track record of success is still in the process of building up. Combined with many
other concerns over private participation in a strategic institution such as railways, ZRL (under the
previous management) had suggested that the restructuring of the railways along with staff reduction be
undertaken, but its privatization be postponed to a later date. The main argument of ZRL management was
that a downsized and restructured railway could achieve the same type of results as expected from a private
railway, while avoiding the dysfunctional aspects that are associated with private management such as
asset stripping, undermining of public service obligations, profiteering etc. This suggestion was, however,
rejected mainly for two reasons. First, the lessons of the Fourth Railways Project and of other railway
projects in sub-Saharan Africa have been that improvements in operational and financial performance
within the parastatal framework are slow and unsustainable. Even though compared to past railway
projects, the "restructuring but no privatization" would have sought more intensive restructuring of the
railways and substantial staff retrenchment, the problems normally associated with parastatals, i.e.,
inadequate motivation and accountability, government interference, lethargy, bureaucratic rules, would
have proved major constraints to any effective improvement in operating efficiency. Second, inherent in the
suggestion was the need for injecting substantial fresh capital for the rehabilitation of infrastructure and
other assets, estimated between US$60 million to US$100 million. Not only could the railways not afford
such a high level of investment, but also GRZ was in no position whatsoever to mobilize resources of this
order. The private sector on the other hand could be expected, first, to develop a more pragmatic and
phased programn of investment, and, second, to mobilize the optimal level of funds required.
2.     Strengthening the railways before concessioning. The rationale for this alternative has been that a
restructured and improved railway could prove to be more attractive to potential concessionaires leading to
a higher value of the concession overall. This altemative was, however, rejected for two reasons. First, the
attractiveness of a railway for a potential concessionaire depends less on its current condition or
performance than on its potential. In any case, the condition of the infrastructure and its assets would have
been reflected in the concessionaires' offer. Second, the claim that the railways' performance could be
improved within a parastatal framework even with substantial inputs has not been proved by past
experience. The focus of most past railway projects was on rehabilitating infrastructure, creating adequate
operational capacity; developing operations and management support systems, organization restructuring,
assets rationalization, performance indicators; and performance contracts between the railways and the
governments. However, in spite of substantial inputs, these projects generally have failed to improve the
railway performnance. In most cases, the railway performance actually deteriorated. In some cases, the
railways have deteriorated to such an extent that their revitalization has become more difficult and
expensive.
3.     Separation of infrastructure from operations. Such an arrangement is expected to lead to
intra-rail competition and, subsequently, to increased operating efficiency and reduced costs. Even so, the
option was rejected because of the somewhat uncertain and controversial outcome of such a separation in
UK, the only country to do so. Zambia was assessed to be too small a railway system for such
expernmentation.
- 13 -



4.     Single integrated concession for freight and passenger services. The option was assessed to be
quite appropriate for ZR and eventually may be preferred by the potential bidders. However, since ZRL's
three key businesses, viz., inter-mine freight, inter-city freight, and passenger traffic, have very different
characteristics, a single concession might not be of interest to one concessionaire. If the issue was forced
and the bidders were required to bid for all the three businesses as a single concession, the price offered by
the concessionaires could have turned out to be sub-optimal. Inter-mine freight operations are
characterized by substantial tonnage but have a very short haul. The locomotive and wagon characteristics
are more appropriate for shunting (switching) operations, the customers are almost always the same,
competition is low, and the operational schedules need to be decided in very close consultation with the
customers. Average speeds are generally quite low and there is a need to keep the costs low by using
innovative methods particularly for track maintenance and assets utilization. Inter-city freight services are
generally long-haul operations, particularly for transit and intemational freight. Both marketing and
operations require maintaining close coordination with the neighboring railway systems. Customers'
expectations of the quality of service are quite high. The range of goods, customers, origin-destination
combinations, quality of service, and tariffs is normally very wide and requires complex planning and
scheduling capabilities. The operations are required to be carried out in a highly competitive environment.
The passenger services are perceived to be loss-making and are being provided as public service
obligations. The utilization of the assets is generally low, but tariffs have to be kept low. Even so, the
visibility of the quality of service is high, tolerance for accidents is very low and risks are high.
5.    Separate integrated concessions for the inter-mine freight and inter-city freight services and
operating concession for the passenger services. In view of the concems with a single integrated
concession, it was decided that three separate concessions would be offered and the bidders would be given
the opportunity to bid for one or more of these three concessions. The question of whether one or three
concessions, would thus be decided by the preference of the bidIders and the value of their bids. This option
has the potential of maximizing the value of the concession (s).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implernentation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Rehabilitation of ZRL assets       Fourth Railway Project             S             U
(completed)
Reforn of the road sector policy and   Road Sector Investment         S             S
institutional framework, strengthening  Program
of the local construction industry and
rehabilitation and maintenance of the
road network
Other development agencies
SIDA - Formulation and
implementation of a Restructuring
Program for ZR and immediate
improvement of ZR performance
- 14 -



IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lesson 1: The performance of most railways in sub-Saharan Africa has been characterized by inefficiency,
loss of market share, back-log of infrastructure maintenance, and consequently, huge recurring losses.
Intemal reforms - corporatization, performance contracts, internal organizational restructuring - business
and profit center approach or functional integration, and many other combinations of functional and
divisional units, geographical decentralization - have failed to stem the declining trend. It is quite apparent
that a parastatal framework within which most railways currently operate - inadequate authority,
motivation, commitment, and accountability; continuing govemment interference; and politically-motivated
investment and operating decisions - is inappropriate for an environment that is progressively becoming
more competitive. Private sector participation in the operation and management of railways (henceforth
referred to as privatization) is considered essential for improving their performance and making them
operate as financially self-sustaining entities. GRZ's eventual commitment to privatizing the railways in
Zambia has been the main factor in the Bank agreeing to support GRZ through ZRRP.
Lesson 2: Every railway in the sub-Saharan African region is over-staffed (some to the extent of about 200
to 300 percent). Whether managed as it is or through private participation, the railways are unlikely to
become financially viable unless surplus staff is retired/retrenched. Even though retrenchment of staff is a
politically and socially sensitive issue and difficult to implement, the issue has to be addressed. To
minimize the adverse social impact of the change, it is important that the staff rationalization scheme is
designed in close consultation with the staff and their representatives, with in-built steps for staff
counseling, retraining, and assistance in their re-deployment. The proposed Project staff rationalization
component has been designed keeping the above considerations in mind and with full formal and informal
consultations with the unions.
Lesson 3: Massive investments in infrastructure, locomotives, rolling stock, and communication systems
have generally been ineffective in improving reliability or efficiency, pardy because the investments were
not always directed at removing the most critical constraints, and partly because the publicly-managed
railways could not effectively manage big projects, modem technology or complex equipment. The
proposed Project would, therefore, leave it for the concessionaires to take and implement key investment
decisions.
Lesson 4: Railway managements generally find it difficult to effectively manage commercial operations
while simultaneously restructuring/privatizing the system. Separation of these tasks can lead to better
implementation. To a large extent, these tasks are already separated in as much as ZRL is focusing on
operations and ZPA is managing the concessioning process. The Project would continue to support these
two separate tasks until the core operations are transferred to the newly incorporated concessioning
companies. The concession design would also ensure that the concessionaire is not forced to manage the
disposal of left-over assets and activities along with managing the core operations. These residual activities
would be the responsibility of ZRL.
Lesson 5: A change in the legislative framework affecting the railways is important, as most past
legislation has been generally restrictive of their autonomy, particularly with regard to organizational
restructuring, commercialization, and privatization. A lot of changes in the legislative framework have
already been made. However, the framework would need further modification to enable effective
privatization of railways, removal of any restrictive clauses, separation of infrastructure from operations
and introduction of competition on rail, and effective regulation. The Project includes review and
modification of the current legal and regulatory framework.
- 15 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
(a) The approval of the privatization option went through the following steps, which demonstrate
significant borrower commitment and ownership:
1. Based on the pleas of the customers, encouraging results of privatization within Zambia and intemal
consultations, the Govemment asked ZPA in 1998 to examine the feasibility and options for privatizing
the railways;
2. the privatization of the railways was approved by the Board of ZRL;
3. ZPA engaged intemational consultants to examine various options and make recommendations;
4. simultaneously, SATCC engaged consultants to study options for concessioning ZR and make
recommendations;
5. these recommendations were discussed in a meeting comprising representatives of ZRL, ZRL's Board
of Directors, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MFED), MCT, MCTI, ZPA, SIDA,
the World Bank, and the consultants;
6. the selected option was then sent to the Cabinet for approval; and
7. the option was commented upon by all the concemed Ministries of the Government before being
approved by the cabinet.
(b) In spite of a crippling cash constraint, ZRL started implementing in March 1998 a retrenchment
program and has already reduced its staff from 5,882 to a little less than 3.300 and paid off the
retrenchment benefits by borrowing the needed amount on commercial terms. ZRL backed by its Board
and MCT is fully committed to the implementation of the restructuring and privatization of ZR.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
For the past ten years or so, the Bank has been intensively involved in promoting the restructuring and
privatization of railways through concessioning all over the world. In termns of consensus-building, the
Bank's main efforts have been: (i) arranging two high profile seminars, one on restructuring of railways in
Bulawayo, Zimbabwe in 1992, and the other in Abidjan on railway concessioning in 1996; (ii) active
participation in seminars arrnged by regional institutions and individual railways, round-table conferences,
study tours and exchange visits; and (iii) publishing articles and books relating to railway
restructuring/privatization. The Bank has supported a number of railway projects in Latin America,
sub-Saharan Africa, Eastem Europe, and Asia to restructure and privatize the railways. The
comprehensive support included financing of advice on privatization, consultants and advisory services for
bidding process, staff retrenchment and rationalization measures, setting up of regulatory bodies, and key
investments in infrastructure. As a result, drawing from this vast experience, the Bank can add
considerable value to the GRZ's efforts to restructure and privatize ZRL. Additionally, the Bank has
supported four railway projects in Zambia and is familiar with the performance history of the railways, the
problems it has faced and the successes and failures of the past. Even after the closing of the last Railways
IV Project, the Bank has been assisting GRZ through a PHRD grant in: (i) clarifying and concretizing the
concepts behind restructuring and concessioning; (ii) providing continuous analysis of project features; and
(c) coordinating with the donor agencies to develop an integrated approach towards the railways. By
continuing its involvement and extending its assistance to the areas not covered under the previous projects,
and by making available to GRZ its vast experience worldwide, IDA would be able to assist GRZ and ZRL
in bringing the process to a successful conclusion.
- 16 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$47.9 million; ERR = 28.1 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Key Issues
Transport costs. One of the expectations from the private concessioning of the railways is that the
efficiency gains will be shared by the key stakeholders. As a key stakeholder, the customers would expect
the transport costs to be reduced, either in the form of reduced tariffs or improved quality of service. It is
expected that the concessionaire, in order to increase his profits, would need to increase his share of the
traffic by offering better quality of service and attractive tariffs. One can assume, however, that the
concessionaires would resort to the minimum possible tariff reductions and/or quality enhancements, just
enough to wean away traffic from road. If the road tariffs remain high, the transport cost reductions for the
existing rail customers may remain limited. In order not to depend solely on the rail-road competition and
concessionaire's strategy, the Project would facilitate introduction of intra-rail competition a few years after
the commencement of the concession. The concession agreement would require the concessionaire to allow
access to other operators after an agreed initial period of, say, five years. Even the prospects of intra-rail
competition should result in better service to the customers.
Fiscal Impact. One of the expectations from the concessioning of the infrastructure, maintenance facilities
and leasing/sale of locomotives, rolling stock, and other operating assets is that GRZ's revenues, net of
restructuring and other railway-related costs, would increase as a result of: (i) increased corporate income
tax payable by the concessionaires; and (ii) income from concession fees, leasing fees, and licenses. Three
major risks to realizing this expectation are: (a) lower than expected concession and leasing fees offered
by the bidders; (b) a major part of the income from the concessions is spent on the residual ZRL and the
regulatory body that is proposed to be established; and (c) the income is spent on promoting other
uneconomic public service obligations by the Govemment. To maximize GRZ's income from the
concessioning process, the concessioning proposals include: (i) using the intemational competitive bidding
process for selecting the concessionaires; (ii) inviting the potential bidders to bid for the passenger,
inter-mine freight, and inter-city freight concessions in any preferred combination, viz., one, two or all the
three, thus enhancing the scope of bidding and, with  at, the opportunity for enhancement of the
concession value; and (iii) including the possibility of renegotiating concession fees as part of the
discussion to extend the closing date of the concession. To minimize the expenditure of additional
revenues for railway related activities in the post-concessioning period, it has been proposed that: (i) the
residual ZRL be restructured or wound up in the shortest time possible, and that (ii) all such decisions are
taken in consultation with the Bank.
Stripping ofAssets. There has been widespread concern that the concessionaires, motivated by short-term
gains, may allow the infrastructure to deteriorate, thus inflicting a huge cost on the economy at a later
date. To mitigate against asset stripping, the concessionaire will be expected to capitalize, and all
concession contracts would be required to provide for an independent periodic (yearly or two-yearly) audit
of the infrastructure assets along with a system of penalty or reward.
Public Service Obligations. The potential concessionaires' proposals will certainly be based on the
assumption that they would be free to decide as to which freight traffic to accept and which to ignore, and
which line or part of line to operate. For operations that are loss-making, but, in GRZ's view socially or
- 17 -



economically relevant and undertaken at the behest of the government, the concessionaires would expect to
be adequately compensated. It has been agreed with GRZ that the public service obligations to be
transferred to the concessionaires would be identified on the basis of proposals ftom the bidders.
Public Financing of Infrastructure Rehabilitation. The concessionaires in general would prefer to have
the inftastructure of the railways handed over to them in a reasonably good condition. They might insist
on Government sharing responsibility for whatever rehabilitation is required. Necessary or desirable as
such investments by GRZ might be, such financing increases Government's risk and forces it to delay or
abandon other important investrnents. GRZ would like to avoid making investment commitments and
taking responsibility for the implementation of the necessary rehabilitation projects.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 65.6 million; FRR = 38.6 % (see Annex 4)
Pension Liability. ZRL has for many years defaulted on transferring pension contributions from staff
under the Zambia Railways Pension Rules to the Pension Fund. Consequently, the staff, who are entitled
to pension benefits under the Zambia Railways Pension Rules (either a refund of contributions or a deferred
pension on reaching the retirement age), cannot be paid their dues by the Pension Fund. The responsibility
for this accumulated liability lies with ZRL, and it has agreed to pay the arrears by December 31, 2000.
Investments prior to concessioning. As can be seen from the project description, an allocation of US$7.0
million has been allocated to enable ZRL to meet its pressing requirements for maintenance and liquidating
accumulated environment-related liabilities. This has been done after making sure that: (i) the investments
would make a substantial difference in reducing derailments and enhancing operating efficiency and
capacity and, consequently, the level of traffic; and (ii) the funds can be spent speedily and certainly prior
to the take over by the concessionaire. The expected increase in traffic as a result of this investment is
about 0.15 million tons, equivalent to revenue of about US$3.0 million. Excluding the benefits that would
accrue as a result of reduction in derailments, the payback period of the proposed investment (IDA -
US$5.0 million and GRZ - US$2.0 million) is estimated to be no more than two years. The investment
would also ensure that the concessionaires would not have to take time to do the same thing and would be
in a position to receive enhanced level of revenue right from the date of commencement. This would result
in an enhancement in the value of the concession.
Retrenchment package. The retrenchment package used in 1998 and 1999 comprised 4 months of salary
for every year of service. Subsequently, the salary structure was revised and a lot of allowances were
amalgarnated with the basic salary. Coincidentally, the term of the 1998 ZRL-Union agreement on
retrenchment also lapsed and, therefore, a fresh agreement was negotiated by ZRL with the unions in
August 2000. According to this agreement, the retrenchment package now comprises 3.2 months of salary
for every year of service. This package was arrived at by taking into account the increase in the basic
salary resulting from the amalgamation of allowances in the basic salary, the extent of inflation vis-a-vis
pay increases during the last two years, the extent of unemployment in the country, and the difficulty faced
by the retrenched staff in getting reemployed (only 5% of the 1998 retrenchees were able to get reemployed
in the formal sector). The real value of the package and hence the allocation of funds for retrenchment,
however, remained unchanged.
Fiscal Impact:
See above.
3. Technical:
- 18 -



Infrastructure Standards. The setting of standards has a direct impact on the operating cost since higher
standards will often mean increased cost of maintenance, expensive track maintenance equipment, and high
cost of depreciation. The use of standards that are appropriate for the service proposed could lead to
considerable cost savings. When finalizing concession contracts, some govemments insist on maintaining
high standards at high cost, without realizing that this could lead to a considerable reduction in the
concession fees revenues. This is true for sub-Saharan African railways. The technical standards are
proposed to be defined in general terms, requiring the concessionaires to ensure safety and maintain assets
in such a condition as to avoid accidents. In particular, the standards for the safe running of the passenger
services would be defined in more specific terms. Beyond that, the concessionaire would be left free to
adopt standards of maintenance as appropriate for the traffic levels and business requirements.
Compliance with Standards. Provisions in the contract would be made for periodic independent
inspections using computerized track recording cars or independent auditors to assess the degree to which
the standards are being maintained and linking the quality of maintenance to penalties/rewards.
Accident Investigations. Provisions would be made in various concession contracts for independent
investigation of accidents, at least for those accidents where public property or human lives are involved.
4. Institutional:
Regulatory Framework. The setting up of a supportive regulatory framework is essential to ensure that the
concession contracts are implemented properly and rigorously. To avoid excessive, subjective, or
undefined regulation, the concession contracts will be developed in an exhaustive manner, leaving very little
for subjective interpretation. The task of the regulatory body would then be to enforce what has already
been agreed upon in terms of maintaining technical and safety and environment-related standards. Instead
of setting up a separate regulatory body, GRZ proposes to establish a special unit within MCT to monitor
compliance with concession agreements. Additionally, in compliance with the requirements under the
Railways Act, the Railway Inspectorate Unit under MCT would be adequately strengthened. Since the
concessionaires would be free to adopt a freight tariff policy and the passenger tariffs would be specified in
the bidding documents, no substantive issues of economic regulation are involved. For broader economic
regulation involving adherence to competition policy and fair trade practices, the Project's preference is for
the issues pertaining to rail transport to be also addressed by a multi-lateral regulatory body with
appropriate mandate and skills such as the Competition Commission. Environment-related regulations are
proposed to be enforced by the Environment Council of Zambia.
ZRL's Role after Concessioning. Eventually, ZRL would need to be wound up unless there are activities
that need to be performed and the concessionaires are not prepared to undertake that responsibility. In any
case, immediately after the take over by the concessionaires, ZRL will need to continue operating as a
downsized state-owned company with the responsibility of spinning-off the remaining commercial and
non-commercial activities (i.e., not taken over by the concessionaires such as guest-houses, clinics, football
teams and police), discharging all its liabilities, and selling off the remaining assets. When all these tasks
are completed, ZRL would also have the responsibility of winding itself up. To ensure that the process is
not unnecessarily prolonged and the task of winding up ZRL is executed efficiently, an independent
administrator would be appointed for a specific period of time. The monitoring of the concession
agreements would be handled by MCT or some other institution identified by GRZ.
Role of SATCC. SATCC, the specialized body under Southern Africa Development Council (SADC)
dealing with transport issues, has recently advised the different railways in the region regarding
-19-



implementation programns aimed at private sector participation in the management and operation of
railways. These discussions are aimed at improving the performance of the transport sector in the region.
ZPA has kept that advice in view while finalizing the concession design, and the concessioning proposals
are consistent with the directions/intentions of SATCC.
Linkages to Neighboring Countries. To achieve optimal results, the railway systems in neighboring
countries that are linked to the railway network in Zambia must also improve their perfonnance.
Conversely, the continuing non-performance of the neighboring countries' railway systems could seriously
undermine the performance of the railways in Zambia. Malawi, and Mozambique are currently in the
process of privatizing their railway systems. Privatization of the South African and Zimbabwe railways is
under serious consideration. The newly incorporated companies/concessionaires in Zambia would need to
reach an agreement with the neighboring countries on: (i) accessing each other's markets as well as on
haulage and track usage charges; (ii) sharing each other's facilities, particularly the expensive ones; and
(iii) developing a common marketing and pricing strategy. The Project would include provisions for
technical assistance to enable development of such mutually-beneficial agreements.
Tanzania-Zambia Railway (Tazara). The route over Tazara to the port of Dar es Salaam is the shortest
and the least expensive for international overseas freight traffic of Zambia and DRC, provided Tazara and
the port of Dar es Salaam operate efficiently and provide acceptable levels of service. Though of
tremendous benefit to customers and the Zambian economy, the route offers much less revenue to ZRL
than would be available to ZRL if the freight were routed through the port of Durban (the average haul for
the Dar es Salaam route is about 100 km, whereas the one to Durban is more than eight times). Given this
differential, the concessionaire could have a tendency to try to manipulate the traffic to move through the
port of Durban. In order to prevent that and enable the traffic to flow unhindered in accordance with
customers' preferences, the concession agreement would stipulate that Tazara would be provided with
trackage rights over the sections between Kapiri-Mposhi and Kitwe in the north and Lusaka in the south,
these two being the key origin/destination points for the bulk of Zambia's overseas traffic. For DRC
traffic, the same would be handled by ZRL after Ndola. User charges and any reciprocal trackage rights
on Tazara would be left to be negotiated between the concessionaire and Tazara.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Executing Agencies: (i) for Concessioning of Railways Component: ZPA; (ii) for Staff Rationalization,
Assets Rehabilitation, Environmental Mitigation, and ZRL Restructuring/Winding up Components:
ZRL/ZRL Board; (iii) for Regulatory Framework and MCT Strengthening Components: MCT; and. (iv)
for Social Mitigation Component: NSSN. MCT will be the overall Project Coordinator including
coordinating compilation of the quarterly reports from the different implementing agencies.
4.2 Project management:
ZRL is currently managed by an expatriate group being financed by SIDA. The group has already
reversed the declining trend of ZRL's performance and has put in place effective management and
operational systems. SIDA has agreed to extend the term of the contract of this group until the conclusion
of the concessioning process. Additionally, ZRL recently retrenched about 1,500 staff on their own and
have already acquired considerable experience in dealing with staff rationalization issues. A tentative
timetable for the implementation of the various components has already been agreed to with ZR and there is
no reason to believe that the timetable will not be adhered to. There is no doubt that the Project
components assigned to ZR would be effectively managed.
ZPA has successfully privatized many public enterprises in Zambia and has considerable cumulative
experience and skills in this area. Assisted by consultants, ZPA will be able to effectively manage the
- 20 -



concessioning component of the Project. The timetable for the concessioning process has been agreed to
and work is progressing according to schedule.
Discussions with MCT have indicated that the Ministry is engaged in a serious exercise within the Ministry
to develop sub-sectoral strategies and a more dynamic transport policy. The initiative for the regulatory
and the Ministry strengthening components has come from the Ministry itself and the implementation of the
two components is expected to proceed well.
NSSN has considerable experience in implementing a variety of measures aimed at assisting the retrenched
staff in getting re-employed or self-employed. NSSN has adequate capacity to deal with the staff that are
proposed to be retrenched under the Project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The main features of the procurement arrangements are as follows (values within parentheses indicate the
approximate value of goods and services proposed to be obtained through the specified procurement
method and are inclusive of physical and price contingencies):
Goods would be procured through:
(i)   Intemational Competitive Bidding (US$4.3 million);
(ii)    National Competitive Bidding (US$1.0 million); and
(iii)   Limited International Bidding, limiting the intemational bidding to original equipment
suppliers (US$0.8 million).
(iv)   Shopping (US$0.2 million).
Consultants' services would be procured through:
(i)    Quality and Cost Based Selection (US$2.0 million); and
(ii)   Selection Based on Quality of Consultants (US$0.3 million).
Training and retraining of retrenched staff would be procured through mutual consultation
(US$1.1 million).
4.4 Financial management issues:
ZRL will be the implementing agency for the Asset Rehabilitation and Environment Mitigation, Staff
Retrenchment, and the Restructuring of ZRL/Winding Up Components. An Implementation Committee,
headed by a Project Manager, has been established to undertake the day to day implementation of the
project. The Accounts Section will be managed by the Head of Management Accounting on a full time
basis. Support to the Management Accountant will be made by three Senior Accountants (Treasury,
Infrastructure and Workshops) from the existing ZRL establishment. The Management Accountant will be
responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for the ZRL component of the
Project will be acceptable to the World Bank, GRZ and ZRL's Board of Directors. Existing disbursement
procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed, i.e., Direct
Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment (if appropriate).
- 21 -



ZRL's financial management systems will support management in their deployment of resources with the
purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve
desired outcomes. ZRL's financial management system will be expected to produce timely, understandable,
relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor, and
appraise the project's progress towards achievement of the stated goals. ZRL's current financial
management arrangements meet the minimum requirements to comply with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02.
ZPA will be responsible for implementing the Railway Concessioning component of the project. They will
also handle the funds for the Staff Counseling, Re-deployment and Social Mitigation component that will
be implemented by the National Social Safety Net (NSSN). ZPA is familiar with handling donor funds and
has been responsible for privatization of numerous public enterprises. A core team headed by a Project
Manager and including a professionally qualified accountant has been formed to spearhead the project.
The financial management system successfully used in accounting for more than two hundred privatized
enterprises will be used to manage the IDA resources for the project. This system meets the Bank's
minimum requirements to comply with OP/BP 10.02.
MCT is currently assembling staff to implement the Regulatory Framework and MCT Strengthening
components. For MCT to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its financial management system will
be based on the Financial Management Action Plan.
The Project accounts, SOEs and the Special Account will be audited each year by an independent auditing
firm under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. In addition to the annual financial statements
conforming to Intemational Standards on Auditing (IFAC Standards), the audit report will include
comments on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures and the extent
to which these can be relied upon as a basis for credit disbursements. Audit reports will be submitted to
IDA no later than six months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. In addition, ZRL would be
required to submit annual entity audit reports also within six months following the end of the Borrower's
fiscal year.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
3.1 Sumnmarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
ZR already has a fairly elaborate company policy with associated rules and procedures for safety and
health at work. However, an environment audit identified the following key issues pertaining to
environmental compliance:
(a)    ZR has no environmental policy or an environment management system, though there is a growing
interest to formulate one;
(b)    ZR has no site-specific safety and occupational health plans;
(c)    Appropriate protective equipment, clothing and accessories are in short supply;
(d)    Environmental knowledge and skills are inadequate;
(e)    Handling of hazardous wastes generated by the railways does not conform to cleaner production
practices. These wastes include fuel, lubricants, furnace heavy metal slag, and waste waters
contaminated with caustic soda;
(f)    Arrangements for collection and disposal of solid wastes - scrap metal, furnace slag, machine shop
swarf, saw dust, and waste coke - are haphazard;
(g)    There is no formal self-inspection program for facilities for storage of petroleum fuel and
lubricating oils located within ZR premises;
(h)    Small quantities of acids and caustic soda sometimes find their way into drains; oily discharges are
- 22 -



freely discharged into open spaces;
(i)    Potential health hazards - paint fumes, final metal dust, and noise - need more attention;
(j)    The environmental impact of ZRL's track weed control program has not been assessed;
(k)    There is no environmental emergency preparedness and response plan; and
(I)    The capacity of the Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ) to enforce environmental regulation
is limited and a lot of environmental violation goes by default.
The major liability issues include: (a) operations without environmental permits or licenses on water,
wastes; (b) lack of monitoring of pollutants; (c) disposal of wastes into unauthorized areas; (d) lack of
environmental preparedness and response plans; and (e) environmental, occupational health, and safety
liabilities arising out of copper concentrate droppings on the copper-belt.
The summary of the environmental audit report would be attached to the concession agreement and the
concessionaires would be required to fully meet the environmental standards. The environmental regulation
would be the responsibility of the railway regulator to be appointed as a part of the Project. The appointed
regulator would work in consultation with and with guidance from ECZ.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is not required at this stage. Developing and handling the
EMP would be the responsibility of the concessionaires that are selected and with whom concession
agreements are signed. The concession agreements would hold the concessionaires responsible for EMP
and would be subject to regulation.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: June 16, 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The consultants who were appointed to undertake the EA have consulted the stakeholders during the study
stage.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The concessionaire would be required to submit a timetable to complete the actions that would be specified
in the bidding documents. Once the timetable is agreed, the same will form the basis of monitoring
compliance. The regulatory body, proposed to be established under the Project, and the ECZ would also be
setting up mechanisms to monitor the impact on the environment.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and speciA.y the project's social
development outcomes.
StaffReduction. As the retrenchment package has already been agreed between ZRL's management and
the staff unions, problems of administration are not likely to arise. However, to address the social,
economic and psychological problems of retrenchment, a social mitigation component has been added to the
Project.
- 23 -



Assistance to Retrenched Staff. Based on a series of interviews, questionnaires and experience elsewhere,
mitigation measures are proposed as follows: First, the computation of retrenchment packages would be
reviewed by outside independent audits for accuracy. Previous experience has shown the staff having
serious complaints with regard to the accuracy of these computations. Second, retrenchment packages will
be paid on time, to avoid entirely the problems encountered by retrenchees in the past with having to
borrow from money lenders to cover the gap between loss of work and receipt of the package. Third,
provision has been made under the Project for staff counseling (both money management and
psychological), retraining, and re-deployment. Fourth, a special cell would be established within ZRL to
address the grievances of staff that have been retrenched.
Problems ofpast retrenchment/issues of staff re-deployment. The experience so far with the 1,500 staff
already retrenched has not been encouraging. Only about 5 percent of the retrenched staff reportedly have
found employment in the formal sector, another 20 percent have opened small businesses, and another 5
percent have migrated to the villages. The rest are still contemplating their options, which appear to be
few. Informal discussions suggest that staff have negative feelings about retraining. Staff that are older,
uneducated, or work in offices were particularly skeptical of the usefulness of training. Part of the reason
for this poor experience is that the counseling and retraining effort was launched much after the retrenched
staff had already left. Under the Project, the counselors would be appointed in advance of the retrenchment
commencement date. Expert staff would be engaged to develop more options to get staff re-deployed.
Poverty focus. The main focus of the Project is on reducing transport costs and making the Zambian
economy globally more competitive, reducing GRZ's budgetary deficit, and reducing the allocation for road
maintenance. These outcomes by themselves are expected to lead to lower costs of agricultural products
and also to make more funds available with the Government for other priority sectors. However, the
Project would also seek to include a few poverty-related actions in the agenda for negotiations with the
concessionaires. The intention would be to reach an agreement with the concessionaires to include the
following in the list of items to be monitored:
* Reducing isolation: The indicator for this would be the number of small wayside stations that are kept
operational and those that are closed to any passenger or freight operations. The extent to which the
small stations are kept open would facilitate personal mobility as well as open the way for rural
inhabitants to enter into some trading of agricultural commodities.
* Contracts for weed control: The indicator would be the number of small contracts for weed control on
tracks awarded to the local inhabitants of villages located along the railway line. Awarding such
contracts can be cost effective for the concessionaire as well enable avoidance of the use of chemicals,
thus reducing environmental degradation.
* Passenger ridership: In spite of the considerable deterioration in the quality of passenger services in
recent times, the excessive time it takes from point to point compared to the corresponding bus trips,
and the odd times at which the train reaches certain stations, there are a number of people who still
travel by train because the train fares are cheaper and all they can afford. With a little better service,
these numbers can increase as has been experienced in many countries. So, passenger ridership would
be an important indicator of improvement in the passenger services. The increased ridership would
also make the passenger services financially more viable.
AIDS Control. The concessionaire would also be persuaded to allocate a certain budget for controlling
HIV/AIDS in consultation with specialized agencies and institutions within Zambia. This budget could be
- 24 -



used for: (a) AIDS-related awareness training to staff and famnily; (b) supply of condoms to staff who
appear more vulnerable; (c) one to one staff counseling; and (d) for implementing other measures as may be
advised by the specialized agencies.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The primary beneficiaries of the proposed Project would be GRZ and the rail users, both freight and
passenger. The proposed Project has been designed with GRZ, MCT and ZPA, leading the process of
designing and implementing the restructuring and privatizing of ZR. Also, GRZ signed a bilateral
agreement in September 1997 with SIDA for the purpose of allowing an intemational consultant to manage
ZR and formulate and implement a Restructuring Program to establish an efficient and sustainable railway
system in Zambia. The Program, including the Retrenchment Plan, was approved by the ZR Board in
May 1998, and extensively discussed and agreed with staff unions. Regarding the rail users, they have
been intensively and formally consulted and interactions of the marketing department and the top
management with the key rail users. The Bank teams have also been frequently speaking to the main rail
users.
The primaxy affected group has been the ZR staff. Formal negotiations with RWUZ have been held and
agreements have been reached on all aspects of staff retrenchment.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Extensive discussions were held with the staff unions of Zambia Railways with regard to the issues
pertaining to staff retrenchment and mitigation of adverse social impacts of retrenchment.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the prcject achieves its social
development outcomes?
Even though the main railway operation would be concessioned, the residual ZR would continue to
discharge its responsibility towards the staff who have been retrenched.
6.5 How will the project monitor perfornance in terms of social development outcomes?
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             O Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      O Yes   No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        O Yes   No
Cultural Propert (OPN 11.03)                                     O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
- 25 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The long-term sustainability of the rail system in Zambia would be considerably enhanced under the
Project, which aims at: (a) long-term private concessioning of ZR; (b) reorienting ZRL's remaining
operations to their most competitive and productive advantage; (c) transparent selection of the private
concessionaire in order to optimize the value of the concession; (d) addressing implementation issues in
sufficient detail in the concession agreements so as to preempt any possible legal action; and (e) setting up
of a credible, independent, and fast system for the settlement of disputes.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
fi~ ~ ~ Rs                          Ris Rat-n                Risk Miiato 'Me.a Xiigv'-urOi  t A 
From Outputs to Objective
The concessionaires' perfonnance may
tum out to be inadequate due to:
(i) The concessions not being well           M         Improve concession design through: Legal and
designed leaving much for subjective                   financial advisory support, consultation with
interpretation.                                        major stakeholders, and incorporating lessons
from similar concessions awarded in the region.
(ii) The regulatory framework not being      M         Consultancy support and technical assistance
effective in enforcing the terms of the                incorporating steps for resolving disputes in the
contract.                                              concession agreements.
(iii) The appropriate institutional          M         Formation of consultative group with
arrangements not being in place for quick              representation from key stakeholders
resolution of disputes.
(iv) The performance of the neighboring      M         Encouraging the neighboring railways to
railways continuing to be below                        restructure and privatize.
expectation.
(v) GRZ does not completely honor the        M         Encouraging the concessionaires to sign
terms of the Concession Agreement.                     operations agreements with neighboring
railways early and setting up of a multi-sectoral
regulatory body.
From Components to Outputs
GRZ does not remain completely               M         Formal cabinet approval obtained before
committed to concessioning of the rail                 starting the concessioning process.
system in a transparent manner.
Intemational interest in concession is not   M         Careful attention to the bidding design. More
as expected.                                           publicity.
- 26 -



GRZ does not take adequate steps to         M         A letter of transport policy to be obtained from
creating a competitive and a level playing            the Government.
field for all transport modes.
The level of redeployment of retrenched     S         Staff counseling to be a part of the Project.
staff is lower than expected.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(a) each of the Subsidiawy Financing Agreements has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, ZPA
and ZR respectively; and
(b) the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Plan in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Other dated covenants include:
(a) ZR shall, no later than December 31, 2001, pay not less than US$1 million equivalent into the
Pension Fund, and no later than 6 months after Credit effectiveness, pay in full all remaining arrears of
payments due and payable to the Pension Fund; and
(b) the Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 2001:
(i) furnish to the Association drafts, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, of the
legislation under which (A) concessions are to be granted under the Project, and (B) the regulatory
mechanism is to be set up; and
(ii) establish an Escrow Fund in forrn and substance satisfactory to the Association.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
[A 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
21 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 27 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
] 2. The fbllowing exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Yash Pal Kedia                    Maxyvonne Plessis-Fraissard       Yaw An3q
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country  anager
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ZAMBIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Three strategic areas       1. The date of take over of the 1. ZPA database        Concessionaires will perform
identified under the CAS are: railways by private                                  according to expectations and
removing constraints to    concessionaires                                         the concession agreements
sustainable, diversified   2. Freight traffic carried by the 2. Statistics of MCT and the
growth; improving          railways, which would be a   Railways
governance; and increasing   proxy indicator for the
access to basic services and    efficiency of operations and
direct poverty interventions,  quality of service
Inadequate infrastructure has
been identified as a major
bottleneck for private
investment and growth.
Private concessioning of ZR
has been specifically identified
as a priority area.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
The Project development                                                            The Development Objectives
objective is to enable ZR,                                                         are closely linked to the CAS
through restructuring and                                                          objectives
privatization, to substantially
increase its operating
efficiency, reduce its cost of
operations, and configure its
freight services and tariffs to
meet customers' requirements
and expectations, and,
consequently, to increase its
share of the local,
international and transit
freight traffic. Efforts of a
privatized and efficient ZR to
increase its share of freight
traffic are expected to result
in:
(a) Heightening of rail-road  (a) Freight traffic on rail and (a) Records of the
competition and,           the percentage of total traffic  concessionaires, MCT, and
consequently, overall      for all modes of transport    the regulatory body
reduction in transport costs
leading to the Zambian
economy becoming
progressively more
competitive and
growth-oriented.
- 29 -



(b) Balancing of the        (b) Same as (a)              (b) Same as (a)
respective share of freight
traffic between rail and road
modes and a significant
reduction of traffic on road,
particularly long-haul and
bulk traffic, leading to a
significant reduction in the
ideal budgetary allocation of
funds for the maintenance,
rehabilitation and expansion
of the road network in
Zambia.
(c) The ZR-linked            (c) Transit traffic on rail and (c) Records of the
international rail corridors    total                    concessionaires, MCT, and
becoming more efficient and                              Ministry of Commerce, Trade
cost effective leading to more                           and Industry
trade between countries along
these corridors, viz., South
Africa, Mozambique,
Zimbabwe, Zambia, Zaire,
Botswana, Uganda (after the
setting up of inter-gauge
transshipment facilities in
Tanzania), and Angola (after
the reopening of the Lobito
rail link);
(d) ZR becoming financially  (d) Income tax paid by the    (d) Records of the Ministry of
self-sustaining and being in a  concessionaires          Finance and Economic
position to reward its capital                           Development
providers;
(e) GRZ being able to reduce  (e) Total cash flow from the   (e) Records of the
its budgetary deficit through   concessionaires to GRZ   Concessionaires and MFED
receipt of concession fees,
taxes, and hire and lease
charges; and
(f) Zambia generating more  (f) Same as (c)              (f) Same as (c)
foreign exchange through shift
of considerable transit and
international traffic from
mostly foreign road hauliers to
ZR.
- 30 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Concessioning of                                   ZPA/GRZ records and        Satisfactory proposals from
railways                                              concession contracts      the potential concessionaires
1. Concession negotiations   By June 2001
commenced
2. Concessions             By September 2001
operationalized
B. Staff Rationalization                              ZR/GRZ records
1. Retrenchment of surplus
staff completed           By September 2001
2. Staff retraining and
re-deployment completed    By June 2002
3. Social mitigation measures
completed                 By June 2002
C. Assets Rebabilitation  By June 2001                ZR/GRZ records
D. Institutional Refonn                               ZPA/ZR/GRZ records
1. The regulatory framework  By June 2001
agreed and the inspectorate
established
2. Strengthening of MCT
completed                  By December 2003
E. Restructuring of ZR                                ZR/GRZ records
1. Spin-off remaining     By December 2002
activities and assets
2. Winding up              By June 2003
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
Railway Concessioning      US$1.0 million
Staff Rationalization     US$17.9 million
Assets Rehabilitation      US$6.7 million
Environmental Mitigation    US$0.3 million
ZRL RestructuringfWinding   US$0.5 million
Up
Regulatory and Legal       US$0.8 million
Framework
MCT Strengthening          US$0.5 million
Contingencies            US$3.3 million
- 31 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ZAMBIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The project would consist of the following components:
(A)   Railway Concessioning
(B)   Staff Rationalization
* Staff Retrenchment
* Pension Obligations
(C)   Assets Rehabilitation
(D)   Environment Mitigation
(E)   ZRL Restructuring/Winding Up
(F)    Regulatory Framework
(G)   MCT Strengthening
(H)   Social Mitigation
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.00 million
(A)   Railway Concessioninif
Background. ZR's performance has been declining since 1975, more sharply since 1989. Freight traffic,
6.2 million tons in 1975, declined to 4.5 million tons in 1989 and to 1.4 million tons in 1997. The
condition of the infrastructure and operating assets is among the worst in sub-Saharan Africa. GRZ, as the
sole shareholder of ZRL, did not intervene effectively to halt the declining trend except to change the chief
executives of the railways from time to time. It was no surprise that this strategy actually tumed out be
completely counter productive. All this time, powerful suggestions were made to the government by donors
as well as key customers to seriously consider involvement of the private sector in the operation and
management of the railways. In response, GRZ did take a decision to privatize ZRL in principle, but the
implementation of the decision was deferred to later date due to commitment of GRZ's priorities in other
sectors of the economy.
However, in March 1998, GRZ signed a bilateral agreement with the Swedish Intemational Development
Co-operation Agency (SIDA), under which an intemational consultancy firm commenced a contract to
manage ZRL. The objective of the contract was to formulate and implement a Restructuring Program to
establish an efficient and sustainable railway system in Zambia. Since the commencement of the ZRL
management contract: (i) the continuous decline in the level of freight traffic carried by ZR has been
reversed with the traffic in 1999 being 1.61 million tons (1.43 million tons in 1997) and is projected to be
1.65 million tons for the current year (2000). In ZRL's view, the traffic for the year 2000 could be as
much as 1.8 million tons if ZRL were to succeed in mobilizing US$5 million for undertaking urgent
targeted repairs to track, wagons, and locomotives; (ii) staff has been reduced from about 5,500 to a little
less than 3,300; (iii) significant historic debts and obligations have been paid off, (iv) new systems and
financial controls have been put in place, and (v) output from the railway works has substantially
increased. Significant though the reversal of the declining performance since the commencement of the
management contract has been, it is not enough to transform Zambia Railways into a competitive, efficient,
financially viable railway transport system with sufficient capacity to meet the transport needs of the
country and its neighbors. In their inception report, the team managing ZR under the management contract
has underscored the urgency of privatizing the railways to ensure its long-term viability.
- 32 -



The continuing poor performance of the railways, combined with evidence of successful turnaround of
many railways in Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa after private concessioning and the continuing
demand from customers for better service, finally made GRZ agree seriously to consider private sector
participation in the operation and management of the railways. GRZ in 1998 asked the Zambia
Privatization Agency (ZPA) to explore the various privatization options and to recommend the most
appropriate one for GRZ's approval. That set in motion the initial preparatory work pertaining to the
possible privatization of the railways.
Using a PHRD grant approved in 1994 to facilitate preparation of a possible railway restructuring project
including privatization of railways, ZPA launched a Private Sector Participation Study, immediately after
getting the mandate from the Cabinet. The study was completed in March 1999. The recommended
privatization option, i.e., the private concessioning of the railways, was intensively discussed in a series of
meetings involving ZRL, ZRL's Board, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, the Ministry
of Communications and Transport (MCT), the Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry (MCTI), the
main consultants who had prepared the report, and ZPA. Agreement was reached on an option discussed in
detail in the next paragraph. The recommended option was then formally reviewed by the concerned
Ministries, i.e., MCT and MCTI, and a memo recommending the consensus option was then sent to the
Cabinet for approval. Cabinet at its meeting held on March 7, 2000 considered and approved the
concessioning of ZR as recommended. Concurrently, the following studies have been completed to
facilitate private concessioning of the railways: (i) environmental impact assessment and audit study; (ii)
asset valuation study; (iii) an in-house social impact assessment study of the staff retrenched so far by
ZRL; and (iv) a social impact assessment study by extemal consultants.
Main features of the concessionin2 proposal. The concessioning proposal finalized by ZPA envisages three
separate concessions as follows:
a geographically separated but vertically integrated short-haul, inter-mine freight service concession
comprising Ndola-Chingola section plus branches;
3   a geographically separated but vertically integrated long-haul freight service concession comprising the
main line (Sakania-Livingstone); and
3   an operating concession for a specified set of passenger services, being operated as public service
obligations.
The bidders would be given the option to bidfor one, two, or all three of the concessions. The award of
the concessions would be based on the net present value of the concession fees offered by the bidders. The
discount rate and the evaluation procedure would be specified in the bidding documents. When bidding for
the passenger service concession, the bidders for the freight concession would still need to separately
indicate the concession fees (positive or negative) for the passenger services concession. The bidders for
the passenger services concession would be allowed to offer a negative fee structure, if necessary.
To avoid the possibility of no proposal being received for the passenger services concession, the main line
freight bidders will be required to ensure that there is a related bidder for passenger services who will
offer a price for providing passenger services either in conjunction with or separate from the freight bidder.
These bids would be evaluated along with independent bids for the passenger services.
The scope of the two freight concessions would include infrastructure as well as a clearly identified set of
core operating assets comprising locomotives, wagons, and maintenance equipment. These assets will be
specified in the bidding documents. The infrastructure (fixed assets) including the signaling system and
- 33 -



real estate would continue to be owned by a Government department or a 100% government owned asset
holding company to be identified by GRZ, but would be maintained and rehabilitated by the
concessionaire(s) during the period of the concession. The main workshop would be included under the
inter-city freight concession and the inter-mine freight concessionaire would be free to enter into an
agreement with the inter-city concessionaire for the overhaul of its locomotives and rolling stock or with
any of the neighboring railways or private workshops in Zimbabwe.
The scope of the passenger services concession would comprise sale/lease of an identified number of core
operating assets such as locomotives, passenger coaches and maintenance facilities. Passenger services
specified in the bidding documents, deemed as public service obligations, would be provided access over
the infrastructure of the two freight concessions on concessionary terms, which would be specified in the
bidding documents. The freight concessionaires would be required to maintain the infrastructure to
standards adequate for the running of passenger services that would be specified in the bidding documents.
The passenger services concessionaire would be free to enter into an agreement with the inter-city
concessionaire for the overhaul of the locomotives and passenger coaches or with other public or private
workshops in the region.
Existing passenger rail services are considered to be essential public services. However, these are not seen
to be financially viable (at least in the foreseeable future) and therefore may not attract bidders for the
concession without the Government offering to provide a subsidy. Bidders for the concession will also be
concemed about Government's ability to pay the subsidy when it falls due. It will only be feasible to have
an independent passenger operator if there is assurance that the operator will be paid fully and on time,
which supports the creation of an escrow fund to receive freight payments and ensure that the passenger
operator is paid before the govemment uses the funds for general purposes. First call on funds in the
concession escrow account would be a way to provide a guarantee of payment (and at no cost to
Government). Establishing such an account would be included as a covenant in the Development Credit
Agreement.
Trackage rights to Tanzania-Zambia Railway (Tazara). The route over Tazara to the port of Dar Es
Salaam is the shortest and the least expensive for the intemational overseas freight traffic of Zambia and
DRC, provided Tazara and the port of Dar Es Salaam operate efficiently and provide an acceptable level of
service. Though of tremendous benefit to custotners and the Zambian economy, the route offers much less
revenue to ZRL than would be available to ZRL if the freight were to be routed through the port of Durban
(the average haul on ZR network for the traffic routed through the port of Dar Es Salaam is about 100 kms
whereas the one through the port of Durban is more than 800 kms). Given this differential, the
concessionaire could have a tendency to try to manipulate the traffic to move through the port of Durban.
In order to prevent that and to enable the traffic to flow unhindered in accordance with the customers'
preference, the freight concession agreements would stipulate that the concessionaires would be required to
reach an agreement with Tazara with regard to trackage rights over the sections between Kapiri-Mposhi
and Kitwe in the north and Lusaka in the south, these two being the key origin/destination points for the
bulk of Zambia's overseas traffic.
Component description. This component would finance advisory services to implement the agreed
concessioning proposal. More specifically, the component would cover: (i) the costs of advisory services,
which ZPA may require to design, negotiate, implement and monitor the concession agreements; (ii) legal
assistance for preparation and negotiation of concessions, articles of incorporation and shareholder
agreements, as well as for contract interpretation and dispute resolution; (iii) assistance in addressing
questions of finance, accounting, asset valuation, and resource mobilization; (iv) assistance in specialized
technical matters, including those pertaining to the environment; and (v) assistance in market intelligence
and assessment.
- 34 -



Component inputs. Inputs for this component would comprise consultant services and technical assistance.
Base cost (without contingencies) of the component is estimated at US$ 1.0 million to be financed by IDA
(3.0% of the total Project cost).
Project Component 2 - US$16.90 million
(B)    Staff Rationalization
Background. In the early 1980s, ZRL had a staff strength of about 9,000. Over the years, the staff
strength has been brought down by controlling new recruitment and encouraging voluntary separations. At
the time of the take over by the management contract group, the staff strength was 5,500 including 800
casual staff. One of the main components of the Restructuring Program developed by the contract
management was to reduce the staff to about 3,300. To determine the right size of staffing within the
company, each department was asked to review its objectives and human resource requirements. A
methodology for selecting personnel for retrenchment was agreed with the Railway Workers Union of
Zambia (RWUZ). Since funding for implementing the retrenchmnent plan was not readily available, the
surplus staff was sent on transitional leave. Employees sent on transitional leave continued to receive their
full pay until they were paid their termnination packages in full.
The agreed retrenchment packages comprised 4 months of salary for each completed year of service
plus long service gratuity pay, and resettlement allowances. This is the same package as is offered to
staff who retires normally after either reaching the normal retirement age or having completed a
minimum qualifying years of service. ZRL also offered to pay part of the retrenchment benefits in the
form of houses. The houses were valued in terns of the market prices as per the Government's policy
on sale of houses. If applicable, the price of the house was deducted from the total package to arrive at
the total cash payable. For an average employee who has served 16 years and has a monthly salary of
K 0.2 million, the package would be K 16.2 million. As the average price for a house is K 5.5 million,
the net cash outlay for ZRL would thus be K 10.7 million for those retrenchees who agreed to the
purchase of houses. These retrenchment packages, though visibly high, were considered comparable
with those of other parastatals scheduled for privatization such as the Zambia Consolidated Copper
Mlines Limited (ZCCM), as can be seen from the table below.
ZRL has already achieved the staff retrenchment target that it set for itself. The staff sent on transition
leave have all been retrenched and the current staff strength is a little less than 3,300. Part of the
financing requirement was met from the payments received from the final settlement of the unitary
system and, for the rest, ZRL has taken a commercial loan of about US$3.5 million.
Component description. This component would have two sub-components: (i) Staff Retrenchment;
and (ii) Pension Obligations.
StaffRetrenchment. Based on the concessioning experience so far and confirmed by the estimates
produced by ZRL as well as the consultant who undertook the Private Sector Participation Study, the
concessionaires are likely to engage only between 800 to 1800 staff out of the current 3,300. To be on
the safe side and to avoid a situation of shortfall of funds to finance retrenchment, the funds allocated
for this component is based on an estimated staff employment of 900 by the concessionaire and a
corresponding staff retrenchment of about 2,400 staff. Additionally, a price and physical contingency
of 15% has been provided to ensure adequate availability of funds for retrenchment in case the
concessionaires decide to select less than 900 staff.
- 35 -



ZRL has negotiated with RWUZ a different salary structure for the staff under which a number of
allowances have been integrated into the base salary. The retrenchment package has also been
renegotiated by ZRL with RWUZ. According to this agreement, the retrenchment package would
comprise 3.2 months of pay for every year of completed service. The total cost of retrenchment would
still remain the same as for the package that was used by ZRL to retrench its staff in 1998 and 1999.
Using the recently negotiated package and the staff age and service profile, and assuming that all staff
would be retrenched, ZRL had estimated the cost of retrenchment to be about US$21.0 million. On the
same basis, the proportionate cost of retrenchment of 2,400 staff would come to about US$15.2
million. A contingency of 15% has been provided in addition to cope with any variations in the
package or the number of staff to be retrenched.
The sequence of retrenchment, as developed in agreement with ZPA/ZRL/GRZ, is as follows: (a) 700
staff would be retrenched immediately after the Credit becomes effective, the criteria to be used for
identifying the surplus staff having already been agreed with the unions; (b) the remaining staff would
be retrenched after the concessionaires have selected the staff according to their requirement. The
sequential steps in case of (b) would be as follows:
3   the concessionaires would identify the staff to be engaged through their own due diligence;
e   the concessionaires would, in consultation with the trade unions, define the terms of employment of
staff, which would in general be as good as or better than the emoluments and current conditions of
service;
-   the selected staff would be offered the letters of employment, and the remaining staff would be
retrenched using the agreed terns of retrenchment;
-   notwithstanding the agreement with the trade unions, the selected staff would be within their rights
under the Employment Act of Zambia to refuse the offer, under the Employment Act, "rights arising
under any written contract of service shall not be transferred from one employer to another unless the
employee bound by such contract consents to the transfer and particulars thereof are endorsed upon the
contract by a proper officer." In case the staff refuse to be transferred, they have a right to be
retrenched and paid the severance payments; and
3   the staff, who refuses the concessionaires' offer, will not be eligible to get the offer again before three
years.
It is understood that a major concern of the staffjoining the concessionaires pertains to the
consideration of the service with ZRL in computing the package when they eventually retire or are
retrenched by the concessionaire. Obviously, staff getting transferred to the concessionaires would be
eligible for pension at some point of time. The concessionaires would in all probability, depending the
new conditions of service, be prepared to pay the retirement benefits, but limited to the number of years
the staff has been employed with them. For the years of service with ZRL, the payment responsibility
would lie with GRZ/ZRL or a successor company of ZRL. Unless this money is guaranteed to the
staff, the staff would be reluctant to take a risk. To address this concern, the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) has a condition requiring that the Government guarantee such payment when it is
due and that the balance in the proposed Escrow account would be used by the Government for general
purposes only after the balance in the Escrow account is sufficient to meet retirement/retrenchment
liabilities pertaining to the period of service with ZRL. Further, the proceeds of the IDA Credit could
be used for severance payments (only in case of retrenchment and not retirement) during the period of
the Project, which should be enough for the stabilization of staffs employment with the
concessionaires.
- 36 -



Pension Obligations. In the past, ZRL has defaulted on transferring pension contributions from staff to
the Pension Fund. Consequently the staff, who are entitled to pension benefits under the Zambia Railways
Pension Rules (either a refund of contributions or a deferred pension on reaching the retirement age),
cannot be paid their dues by the Pension Fund. The responsibility for this accumulated liability lies with
ZRL. It is quite certain that the retrenchment efforts will get stalled unless ZRL is enabled to meet this
liability. ZRL has indicated that a substantial portion of the arrears has already been paid off by ZRL and
that US$1.0 million equivalent would be paid into the Pension Fund by December 2000 and the remaining
arrears within six months of Credit effectiveness, i.e., roughly by April 2001. This is also reflected as a
dated covenant in the DCA.
Component inputs. This component would finance the severance payments of pennanent staff to be
retrenched. The component would be implemented by ZRL. The total Base cost of the component without
any physical and price contingencies is estimated at US$16.9 million (about 56% of the total Project cost)
to be financed by IDA (US$15.2 million for retrenchment packages) and GRZ (US$1.7 million for pension
scheme obligations).
Project Component 3 - USS 6.70 million
(C)   Assets Rehabilitation
Backaround. The infrastructure and operating assets that the contract management group (the Group) took
over were in very poor condition. Frequent locomotive failures and derailments have made the operations
very inefficient and unsafe. The resulting decline in traffic and revenues, huge staff-related costs, and the
Govemment's inability to provide any financial support have so far been making it difficult to provide for
adequate maintenance. This in turn is making it difficult for the railways to increase its share of the freight
market.
One of the first actions of the Group was to identify the staff really required for operations and send the
remaining surplus staff on transition leave. The latter staff have since been retrenched (see details under
component 2) partly by the ZRL having taken a commercial loan of about US$3.5 million. The Group also
pursued accounts payable. These steps have made more funds available for maintenance and the condition
of the assets has shown some improvement. However, a lot more needs to be done and urgently. The
concessioning process could take quite some time, definitely not less than about 15 months. In the absence
of specific targeted interventions, the gains of the past two years could be lost.
The proposed investments are expected to pay for themselves manifold in a short period of time by
reducing the incidence of derailments and making more capacity available for traffic on offer.
Additionally, these investments will enable the concessionaire to take less time to get organized for serious
marketing and, therefore, will make the concession more attractive to the potential bidders. The package to
be supported under the Project in advance of the concession has been arrived at after ensuring three key
considerations: (i) the investments would unequivocally add value to the quality of the railway system
which the concessionaires would also acknowledge, and would not become redundant by any future
decision of the concessionaires; (ii) the identified tasks were capable of being completed within a year, i.e.,
before the expected date of commence of the concession; and (iii) the investments address weaknesses
identified as the most critical in the railway system.
Component description. The component would finance three key sub-components simultaneously to
address three major operating constraints, viz., inadequate availability of locomotives, poor condition of
track, and excessive sidelining of wagons on account of non-availability of wheels. The items to be
financed comprise: (a) materials and equipment for the overhaul of five main line locomotives; (b)
- 37 -



strengthening of track by replacing a certain percentage of sleepers for the 377 kms of track that is fitted
with wooden sleepers and replacing wooden sleepers in poor condition with concrete sleepers to compete
the rehabilitation of the Chisamba-Lusaka section; and (c) procurement of about 2,000 wagon wheels. The
component would also finance procurement of environmental mitigation equipment to assist ZRL in
liquidating the accumulated environmental liability.
Locomotives. Five mainline locomotives are overdue overhaul and the longer the overhaul is postponed the
more expensive this would become. The costs for rehabilitation at US$240,000 per locomotive are
considered reasonable. Allocation for materials and equipment: US$1.2 million by IDA.
Track sleepers. Sleepers needed for the replacement of one in every four sleepers is the most economical
way of improving the track condition in the short-term. Even though use of wooden sleepers is to be
discouraged on environmental grounds, in this case it would be agreed to because of there being no
alternative short of shutting down the railway. Nearly half of the main line network is fitted with wooden
sleepers and almost all of the sleepers are far older than their permissible age and need to be replaced.
Taking into account environmental concems, the final solution would lie in replacing these with concrete
sleepers. While wooden sleepers can be replaced one at a time and in any order, say one in every 4
sleepers, which is the proposal here, it is not possible to do so using concrete sleepers. Use of concrete
sleepers would mean that all sleepers would have to be changed in one go in any particular section. This
could take a long time, about five to six years, and also considerable resources, in the order of US$20 to 30
million. The track cannot hold together for such a long time. In the short-term, some thing else would need
to be done. The optimal strategy to meet both the short - and long-term objectives - within a very serious
financial constraint, would be to: (i) replace one in 4 sleepers with wooden sleeper (cost less than US$2
million); (ii) start replacing all the wooden sleepers with concrete ones at a time and pace dictated by the
availability of funds; (iii) transfer good wooden sleepers from the concretized section to one selected section
fitted with wooden sleepers; and (iv) take up this selected section for fitment of concrete sleepers the last of
all. This strategy would mean short-term improvement of the track and a strategy to phase the fitment of
concrete sleepers as convenient and affordable. Moreover, the life-expired wooden sleepers released from
the track will definitely be available for alternative use, leading to reduced deforestation. Allocation:
US$0.9 million for 60,000 sleepers by IDA and about 2.0 million by GRZ for fastenings, ballast, rails, and
crossings. Also, 35,000 concrete sleepers at a total cost of US$1.5 million by IDA to compete the
rehabilitation of the Chisamba-Lusaka section, which has accounted for a large percentage of derailments
in the recent past. The section already has concrete sleepers and use of wooden sleepers is not compatible.
Wagon wheels. Many wagons are running on wheels, which have reached their technical limit of wear and
need to be replaced. Only 500 wagons out of a fleet of 2,600 are fit to cross the border. All other wagons
are getting rejected at the border. The interchange loss on account of defective wagons amounted to about
US$1.0. million during 1999. About 2,000 wheels are proposed to be procured at a cost of US$1.1
million.
Component inputs. The base cost of the component without any physical and price contingencies would be
US$6.7 million (21% of the total project cost) to be financed by IDA (US$4.7 million) and GRZ (US$2.0
million).
Project Component 4 - US$0.30 million
(D)   Environmental Mitigation
Component description. This component would comprise procurement of pollution-control equipment such as
oil separators and fume extractors with the objective of bringing the railways to comply with national and
international standards in pollution control. These items have been identified and costed in a Environment
- 38 -



Study Report.
Component inputs. The base cost of the component without any physical and price contingencies would be
US$0.3 million (1% of the total project cost) to be financed by IDA US$0.2 million and GRZ (US$0.1
million).
Project Component 5 - US$0.50 million
(E)    ZRL Restructuring/Windins up
Background. Eventually ZRL will hand over the freight and passenger business to concessionaires. The
future role of ZRL as an entity has still to be defined. ZRL may have need to continue operating as a
downsized state owned company with the responsibility of spinning-off the remaining commercial and
non-commercial activities (i.e., those not taken over by the concessionaires such as guest-houses, clinics,
and police), discharging all of its liabilities, selling off the remaining assets, and finally winding itself up.
ZRL may also have to be retained if: (i) no proposals are received for the passenger concession and ZRL is
required to continue operating these services; and (ii) ZRL is required to serve as a holding company
holding the infrastructure assets on behalf of the government. The future structure of ZRL would depend
upon the outcome of the concessioning process.
Component description. The internal studies have identified the staff required for the carrying out of ZRL'
s residual activities as follows:
1. Dealing with the pending and future court cases: 10 staff;
2. Dealing with the maintenance, disposal, and account of residual assets not taken over by the
concessionaires: 17;
3. Operating the passenger services on Mulobezi line: 27;
4. Operation of the passenger services: 261; and
5. Security services: 500.
In all probability, with the condition that the freight bidders would need to ensure a bid for the passenger
services as well, the concession for passenger services will be awarded. It is also very likely that the
concessionaires would make their own arrangements for security either by engaging the necessary police or
by subcontracting. The surplus police would be retrenched like all other staff. In such a case, the residual
ZRL would be managed by a total staff of 54 until it is wound up.
Component inputs. Inputs for this component would comprise consultancy services and technical assistance in
orderly winding up of ZRL. Base cost of the component without any physical and price contingencies is
estimated at US$0.5 million (2% of the Project cost) to be financed by IDA.
Project Component 6 - US$0.80 million
(F)    Reulatorv Framework
- 39-



Component description. This component would include assistance to: (i) assess/identify the effectiveness of
the existing scope, functions, and instruments for the economic regulatory framework; (ii) recommend the
sectoral coverage and accountability relationships for the regulatory institution(s) (iii) define the staffing,
internal organization, operating costs and financing mechanisms for a new safety and environment-related
regulatory agency; and (iv) prepare the required draft legislation.
The component would also include provision for equipment and technical assistance services to enable the
launching of the identified agency (ies) and the preparation of its staff. Additional finance provided under
this component would cover the technical aspects of the regulatory framnework. Consultant services for a
study and for technical assistance would be targeted at the development of the required capabilities within
MCT or any other institution identified for this purpose, to enable it to effectively discharge its role as a
supervisor of the concession contracts.
The component would also include provision of technical assistance services to restructure ZRL, establish
an holding company or a unit within MCT to be responsible for: (i) keeping an account of the assets,
concessioned or leased under the Project; (ii) taking inventories of said assets and reconciling the
inventories with records; (iii) monitoring compliance with the concession agreements; and (iv) undertaking
physical inspections of assets and ensuring compliance with the standards prescribed for the assets in the
concession agreements.
The component would also include provision of technical assistance for the setting up by the Borrower of
an escrow fund to be used for the payment of: (i) any subvention for passenger services operated as public
service obligations in case the passenger services concession is awarded as a stand-alone concession; (ii)
the retirement and /or retrenchment benefits pertaining to the service of eligible employees of Zambia
Railways; (iii) operating expenditures of the Holding Company, the Regulatory Body; and any residual part
of Zamnbia Railways in the event of winding up, reorganization or privatization; and (iv) the costs of any
mitigation measures required under Part H of the Project.
Component inputs. Base cost of the component without any physical and price contingencies is estimated at
US$0.8 million (about 2% of the Project cost) to be financed by IDA.
Project Component 7 - US$0.50 million
(G)   MCT Strengthenin2
Component description. This component would include a study to (i) review and refine the framework for
developing and overseeing transport policy; (ii) define the new functions of MCT to discharge its role; (iii)
assess MCT's organizational structure in the framework of this evolving role; and (iv) determine staffing
requirements, taking into account GRZ's civil service reform program. The component would also include
the provision of consultant services for technical assistance to enable the implementation of the
recommendations of the study. Inputs for this component would comprise consultancy services and office
equipment.
Component inputs. Base cost of the component without any physical and price contingencies is estimated at
US$0.5 million (about 2% of the Project cost) to be financed by IDA.
Project Component 8 - US$1.00 million
- 40 -



(H)   Social Mitil!ation
It is estimated that only about one-third of the current staff, about 1,100 workers, will be required by the
concessionaire. ZRL already plans to retrench 700 workers, as soon as funds are available. While the
retrenchment payments will help, the loss of employment will have a seriously adverse impact on workers
unless the process is carefully planned and implemented. Previous experience of retrenchment in ZRL has
not been very encouraging: about 5% of the retrenched workers have found formal employment, another
20% have opened small enterprises, and another 5% have moved to the villages and presumably
smallholder agriculture. The project has been designed to provide a more comprehensive professionally
organized approach to mitigating the social impact of retrenchment: (i) the component will be implemented
by the National Social Safety Net (NSSN) which has substantial previous experience in mitigation and
training activities; (ii) the component is being developed using the results and recommendations of a major
social mitigation assessment study; (iii) counseling will be undertaken well in advance of actual
retrenchment in order to prepare workers for the initial period, especially with regard to the use of
retrenchment compensation; (iv) counseling will be undertaken by experienced professional organizations;
(v) retraining and re-orienting workers to alternative employment will utilize approved public and private
training institutes; and (vi) assistance in resettlement will be considered. It has also be agreed that
additional mitigation measures will, if necessary, be funded through the concession escrow account.
Component inputs. The total Base cost of the component without any physical and price contingencies is
estimated at US$1.0 million (about 3% of the total Project cost) to be financed by IDA.
TOTAL PROJECT COST
As indicated in the table below, the total Base Cost of the Project has been estimated at about US$27.7
million. Physical and price contingencies, estimated at US$3.3 million, have been calculated as follows:
(a) 15% for the staff retrenchment component in view of the uncertainty of the staff numbers that the
concessionaires would eventually accept; (b) 10% for all other components. Total Project cost is estimated
at US$3 1.0 million.
- 41 -



PROJECT COSTS
(USS million)
Categories
Implem                       % of Consult        Staff
Component                       enting        Costs         Total &Tech  Train Redun Equip   Financin
Agency Local Foreign Total  Cost  Assist  ing  dancy  ment IDA   ZRL
A. Railway Concessioning       ZPA      0.20   0.80   1.00    3    1.00                       1.00
B. Staff Rationalization       ZRL    16.90  0.00   16.90   55    0.00   0.00  16.90          15.20   1.70
Staff Retrenchment                15.20  0.00   15.20   49                  15.20        15.20
Pension Obligations                1.70   0.00   1.70    5                  1.70                1.70
C. Asset Rehabilitation        ZRL      2.00   4.70   6.70   22                        6.70  4.70   2.00
D. Environment Mitigation      ZRL      0.10   0.20   0.30    1                         0.30  0.30   0.00
E. ZRL Restructuring/Winding up ZRL     0.10   0.40   0.50    2                         0.50  0.50
F. Regulatory Framework        MCT    0.10   0.70   0.80    3    0.80                         0.80
G. MCT Strengthening           MCT    0.10   0.40   0.50    2    0.20   0.10            0.20  0.50
H. Social Mitigation           NSSN    1.00   0.00    1.00    3    0.10   0.90                1.00
Total Baseline Cost              20.50  7.20   27.70   89    2.10   1.00  16.90  7.70  24.00   3.70
Price and physical contingency (*)      2.70   0.60   3.30    11    0.20   0.10  2.30  0.70  3.00   0.30
Total Project Cost              23.20  7.80   31.00   100   2.30   1.10  19.20  8.40  27.00   4.00
(1) 15% on staff retrenchment and 10% on the rest rounded to nearest figure
- 42 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ZAMBIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Railway Concessioning                                     0.20         0.80          1.00
Staff Rationalization                                    17.90         0.00        17.90
Asset Rehabilitation                                      2.00         4.70         6.70
Environment Mitigation                                    0.10         0.20         0.30
ZR Restructuring/Winding up                               0.10         0.40         0.50
Regulatoiy Framework                                      0.10         0.70         0.80
MCT Strengthening                                         0.10         0.40         0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                      20.50         7.20        27.70
Physical Contingencies                                   1.35         0.30          1.65
Price Contingencies                                      1.35         0.30          1.65
Total Project Costs             23.20         7.80        31.00
Total Financing Required             23.20          7.80        31.00
Goods                                                       2.40          6.00         8.40
Works                                                       0.00          0.00         0.00
Services                                                    0.45          1.85         2.30
Training                                                    1.10          0.00         1.10
Staff Redundancy                                           19.20          0.00        19.20
Total Project Costs    23.15          7.85_        31,00
Total Financing Required     23.15          7.85        31.00
- 43 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ZAMBIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Background
ZR Systemn. The geographical setting of Zambia makes ZR a critical link in the logistic chain for
intemational traffic of Zambia, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), and now also of Tanzania and
Uganda. Much of this traffic originates from or is destined to the ports in South Africa, Zambia, Tanzania,
and Angola but quite a lot is inter-country regional traffic. ZR has a total track length, all single track, of
1,273 kms, out of which 848 kms is main line. The ZR rail system links with the Zimbabwe rail network at
Livingstone/Victoria Falls and onwards to the ports in South Africa and Zambia, Tanzania-Zambia
Railways at Kapiri Mposhi and onwards to the port of Dar-es-Salaam, and the DRC at Sakania.
Past Performance. The traffic volumes of ZR have been falling for many years. Freight traffic exceeded
6 million tons in 1975, representing over 1.4 billion net ton-kilometers (ntkms). By 1988, the traffic had
declined to 4.5 million tons, and by 1998 to 1.4 million tons. This precipitous decline in ZR's performance
can be attributed to the inefficiency, excess employment, low productivity, waste, lethargy of operations,
lack of incentives, and inadequate accountability normally associated with the railways managed as
parastatals. The performance worsened even more rapidly after the liberalization of the Zambian economy
during the 1990s, in particular the liberalization of the transport sector which resulted in demand for high
quality service and emergence of a powerful trucking sector. Traffic on offer also declined due to a decline
in Zambia's economy, ZCCM's performance, collapse of DRC's economy, and slowing down of the
economy of the neighboring Zimbabwe. The declining traffic and revenues and the continuing retention of
staff at an unnecessarily high level and, consequently, the resulting high costs of operations have left ZR in
a financially precarious condition. Inadequate maintenance has led to ZR being a wom out system.
Derailments are an almost daily occurrence and ZR has a poor record of accidents. Vandalism of signals
has badly affected traffic control. As a result, the railways are failing to canry all the traffic on offer.
Details of actual freight and passenger traffic from 1975 until 1999 are indicated in the table below.
Future Prospects. In spite of the deterioration of the ZR system in recent years, quick revitalization of ZR
is possible. The expatriate management group that commenced its work in March 1998 has already taken
some steps in this direction. Within two years, the staff has been reduced from about 5,500 to a little less
than 3,300. The morale of the remaining staff has shown a visible improvement. Locomotive and rolling
stock availability has improved. As a result, the declining trend of traffic has been reversed. The freight
traffic for the year 2000 is projected at 1.8 million tons but is likely to be around 1.65 million tons. A
specially designed and speedily-executed package of about US$5.6 million under the proposed ZRRP
would be targeted at further improvement of critical inputs, viz., track, locomotives, and rolling stock.
Execution of three or four such specifically designed and targeted packages in the course of the next few
years would make the system reliable enough for handling all the trffic on offer. However, for
sustainability, more investments, particularly in infrastructure, would be required in future.
- 44 -



ZRL's Past and Current Performance
Actual                                                   Projected
1980/ 198&5   1990/ 1991/ 1992/ 1993/ 19941 1995/ 1996/ 1997/
1975  1981  1986   1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 1997  1998  1998  1999  2000 2001  2002  2003 2004 2005
Freight (000 Tons)
Transit    381   640   569    440   323   160    89    47    48   161    93   171   204   224   224
Import     270   880   430    395   401   982   371   193   250   234   270   212   249   249   316
Export      50   470   593    436   398   471   384   309   345   332   235   296   260   235   235
Domestic   5500  2380  2960   2161  2108  1840  1672  1333  1225  955   817   953   897   942  1025
Total    6201  4370  4552   3432  3230  3453  2516  1882  1868  1682  1415  1632  1610  1650  1800  1980 2178 2396 2468
Freight (MiUlion NTKM)
Transit                                    115    53    33    28   85    67   122   131   137
Import                                    416   167   104   140  161   182   148   150   186
Export                                     177   141   110  1I1   128    90   139   104    78
Domestic                                    364   290   195   181   161   133   145   155   166
Total                                    1072   651   442   467   535   472   554   540 544.5  572   629   692   710  727
_________                   Passengers (000)
_ 1     1     1       793  906  1156  1509   950  1265  1246  1095   800   8191  868   572   629   692   761  784
Staff Strength
Penmanent                      9850  8257  8054  7867  7965  7929  5285  5181  5027  3386 3297  1100  1000   900   800   800
Casual                       1839  1124   999   819   335   334   576   800    20    20       8     0     0     0     0     0
Total                       11689  9381  9053  8686 8300  8263  5861  5981  5047 3406  3305  1100  1000   900   800   800
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project has been calculated on the basis of costs and benefits to
the Zambian economy in the "With" and "Without" scenarios over a 20 year period. In calculating the
costs to the economy, it has been reasonably assumed that the concessionaire will be largely or entirely
foreign owned, that concessionaire investmnent in ZR will be financed from overseas resources, and that all
profits from the concessioned railway, net of taxes, will be repatriated overseas. The Zambian economy
will be affected by: (i) the change in the level of employment and employment income; (ii) the level of
concession fees paid to GRZ; and (iii) more efficient rail services and the consequent diversion of freight
traffic from road to rail. In the analysis of the costs and benefits, all transfer payments made within the
economy have been effectively excluded and no distributional weights have been attached to factor
incomes/consumption. The underlying basis for the analysis is outlined below.
The "Without" Scenario
Following the completion of the present management contract, ZR is operated very much in
the same manner, as previously.
There would be no fwuther staff retrenchment, due to lack of financial resources, but the level of
employment would fall by about 100 workers/year, through natural attrition. Employment would
stabilize at a level of 1800, the level considered necessary for operations under parastatal
ownership and management.
The present average wage rate for ZR workers would remain constant, in real termns.
ZR will not have the resources to make major investments, but to avoid a dramatic decline in
- 45 -



operating capacity, US$5 million will be invested over the next five years.
ZR's freight traffic will decline by 2% annually as a result of declining operating efficiency,
brought about by inadequate maintenance and investment. This is probably rather optimistic and
the rate of decline could be much faster.
*      Fixed costs and the variable cost/ton-km remain constant in real terms.
*      Average ZR revenue of US$ 0.0519 ton-km remains constant, although this is again optimistic
given the probable decline in operational efficiency and service levels.
The 'With" Scenario
The impact of private management on formerly parastatal railway operations in developing countries has
generally been dramatic with substantial reductions in cost levels and significant increases in traffic levels.
Experience elsewhere cannot necessarily be applied in every situation and thus very conservative
assumptions have been adopted in the analysis of the 'With" scenario.
Project Commencement: It is assumed that the concession would commence operations during the
latter part of 2001. The year 2002 has been taken as the first year for the economic analysis.
Implementation ofphysical investment: The Project funds allocated for asset rehabilitation would
be utilized before the start of the concession, i.e., before the latter part of 2001. With the resulting
improvement in the condition of the track, availability of wagons, reliability of locomotives, it is
assumed that the level of freight traffic would be increased by 5%, i.e., from 1.65 million tonnes to
1.73 million tonnes and 572 million ton-kms.
.Staffreirenchment: The Project funds for staff rationalization would be available as soon as the
proposed Credit becomes effective, well before the takeover of the ZR by the concessionaire. It is
assumed that approximately 50% of the present ZR labor force would be retrenched prior to
concessioning, and that the concessionaire would take over an initial labor force of 1100 workers.
With the introduction of revised working practices and improved equipment, the concession would
then reduce the workforce, over the next three years, to approximately 800 workers. Thereafter,
there will be a gradual increase in the labor force as the level of operations staff are recruited to
handle increased levels of freight traffic.
Traffic Projections: Over-optimistic traffic forecasts in donor-funded railway projects have been
more the rule than the exception (though this has usually been within the context of state owned
and operated railways). Despite the very positive impact of concessioning on rail traffic elsewhere,
the analysis has assumed very modest traffic growth. It is assumed that in the first year of
concessioning, ZR traffic will attract 5% additional traffic and in each of the next two years an
additional 10%, reflecting diversion of some road freight traffic back to rail. Thereafter, traffic is
assumed to grow at about 2.5% per annum, significantly below the expected growth of the
Zambian economy. The growth rates used in the analysis are very modest compared to the average
14% estimated by the consultants working for ZR.
Staff costs: As soon as the Credit becomes effective, the current management of ZR will
commence retrenching staff, with the intention of retaining only about 2,600. The concessionaire is
expected initially to employ 1,100 but will further reduce the level to about 800 as increased
efficiency and labor productivity is achieved, From year 5, it is assumed that staff will begin to
retire, at about 5% per annum. The concessionaire will pay the retirement benefit for the years
during which the staff were employed under the concession, and GRZ will be responsible for the
retirement benefits for the period of employment prior to concessioning. It is assumed that the
concessionaire will raise wage rates by an average of 25% as part of the plan to increase
productivity.
Variable costs: While substantial efficiencies could be achieved with regard to both fuel and spare
parts consumption, a relatively small reduction in variable cost has been assumed in the analysis; a
- 46 -



reduction in cost from US$ 0.0156/ton-km to US$ 0.0147/ton-km (approximately, 6% over the
first two years of the concession). Much more substantial cost savings are thought possible from
better management and control of fuel and spare parts.
Fixed costs: The fixed costs of ZR are assumed to remain unchanged, though savings in real estate
as well as in the motive power and rolling stock fleets should be achievable.
Concession management costs: The concessionaire is expected to need only a very small
expatriate senior management team, but the individual costs of the personnel will be relatively high.
A cost of US$ I million has been assumed in the analysis to approximate the additional costs of
expatriate managers; possibly, four managers at an average cost of US$250,000.
Investment by the concessionaire: While the concessionaire's investment strategy cannot be fully
anticipated, it might be expected that it will be the minimum level consistent with the need to cater
fully for potential traffic demand, at a commercially acceptable service level. The present
management has estimated the investment requirement as some US$60 million, but it is quite clear
that ZR's revenues cannot support such a level of up-front investment. The Asset Valuation Study
indicated that about US$ 12 million would be sufficient to allow ZR to operate reasonably
efficiently and safely for the foreseeable future. For the purposes of the analysis, concessionaire
investment of US$ 15 million has been assumed, spread over the first six years of the concession
period.
Distribution of ZR surplus: The concessionaire is expected to require a 20% post tax rate of
return on the investments made in ZR and to pay back investments over a five year period. The
overall return on investment would be about 35%, reflecting the perceived risks of investing in ZR
Any residual surplus is assumed to go to GRZ in the form of concession fees, royalty payments or
corporate taxes
Retrenched workers and use of retrenchment payments: Overall, some 2,500 workers are
expected to be retrenched and will receive approximately US$16 million in retrenchment benefits,
On the basis of past retrenchment, it is expected that about 10% of the retrenched workers will
obtain altemative formal employment, at about the same wage salary scale. Other retrenched
workers are expected to take up smallholder agriculture, and it is assumed that about 25% of
retrenchment payments will be invested in informal economic activities, and that such investment
will generate rates of return of about 15%.
Road freight costs: These costs, US$0.08/ton-km, are based on the tariffs charged by road
hauliers as reported in the "Private Sector Participation Study". While these are financial costs,
they are broadly indicative of economic costs to the Zambian economy: (i) much of the
international freight traffic is hauled by foreign owned trucking companies; and (ii) the taxes paid
by truckers on fuel, vehicles and other inputs partly offset the cost of attributable road maintenance
costs. The trucking sector is already very competitive and a more competitive railway service is
unlikely to result in a significant impact on trucking tariffs.
Economic benefits of diverted roadfreight traffic: Without the concessioning of ZR, there would
be significantly higher levels of road freight traffic. While rail tariffs are well below road freight
tariffs, rail service levels are usually inferior to those provided by the trucking sector. Estimating
the economic benefits on the basis in the difference in the tariff levels would thus be an
overestimation. Based on the assumption of a straight line demand curve, economic benefits have
been estimated at 50% of the difference in the tariff levels.
Economic benefits to residual "without" rail traffic: The concessioning of ZR is expected to
result in both an expansion in capacity and a substantial improvement in the level of rail service.
Existing rail traffic will benefit from the improved level of rail service. The level of economic
benefit to these residual rail service is unlikely to be very substantial, however, as such users are
clearly relatively insensitive to the level of service (otherwise they would not be using ZR). These
benefits have not been estimated.
- 47 -



There may be other economic benefits from the concessioning of ZR, but have not been included in the
analysis because of the uncertainty regarding their level. These might include: (a) an increase in passenger
traffic and revenues; (b) an improvement in the level of service to passengers; (c) some reduction in road
maintenance costs; (d) more productive use of ZR's non-core assets; and (e) reduced environmental
degradation, railways being considered less polluting than road transport.
Results of the Economic Analysis
The results of the economic analysis for the base case assumptions for the project are as follows:
(i)    ERR               28.1%
(ii)    NPV (12%)   US$47.9 million
The overall ERR is well above the level considered acceptable (10% - 15%) for transport sector
investment. The 20% post tax return on capital obtained by the concessionaire is not included in this ERR.
Benefits:                     68.4              95.8             103.9
Costs:                        20.5              30.2              19.7
Net Benefits:                 47.9              65.6              84.2
IRR:                          28.1              38.1
The opportunity cost of many of the workers retrenched from Zambian Railways is very low. Financial retums to
the railway will thus be significantly higher than economic returns to the economy.
2Net public sector surplus with and without project.
Main Assumptions:
See above.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The economic analysis is based on a large number of assumptions, and it is important to test whether
plausible changes in these assumptions would result in unacceptably low ERR. An extensive sensitivity
analysis has been performed. Given the very positive ERR in the base case, it is particularly important to
deternine what factors, or combination of factors, could result in a marginal or negative ERR:
- 48 -



Sensitivity Analysis: Pessimistic Scenarios                                   NPV          ERR
(US$m)        (%)
1. Base case                                                                  47.9         28.1
2. Retrenched workers: no alternative employment and no investment             40.3        24.9
3. Concessionaire takes 30% return and makes $30 million investment            20.2        18.6
4. Traffic in "without" scenario remains constant at 545 million ton-km        27.8        22.7
5. Annual traffic growth in "with" situation only 2% per annum                 10.5        16.1
6. No increase in rail traffic "with" concessioning                           -14.2         3.6
7. No increase in rail traffic "with" scenario, concessionaire invests only $5 million  -0.3  11.8
8. Traffic in "without" scenario constant, growth in "with" scenario 3% per annum  4.6     13.8
The crucial factor for the economic viability of the project is the increase in rail traffic, resulting from the
more efficient rail services provided by the concessionaire. It is implausible that the concessionaire would
invest substantially without additional rail traffic, and it can be reasonably assumed that Scenario 6 is quite
unrealistic. The very worst case scenario (Scenario 7) still generates a marginally acceptable ERR. It is
highly unlikely that ZR could be concessioned unless potential concessionaires expect that they will be able
to increase the level of freight traffic substantially, nor is it likely that GRZ would accept the very low
concession fees implicit in the low traffic scenarios.
A faster rate of traffic growth after concessioning, or a more rapid decline in traffic without concessioning
would obviously increase the level of economic benefits above the base case level. Both such scenarios are
very plausible, as are significant reductions in railway operating costs under concessioned management. A
rather different scenario would be very rapid decline in the performance of ZR and its outright closure
after, for example, five years.
Sensitivity Analysis: Optimistic Scenarios                                    NPV          ERR
(US$m)        (%)
1. Base case                                                                   47.9        28.1
2. Annual traffic growth in "with" scenario 10% for 3 years and then 3%        64.4        32.5
3. "With" Fixed and unit variable costs reduced 10% annually for first two years  62.3     32.9
4. Traffic in "without" scenario declines 3% annually                          56.7        30.2
5. Scenarios2+3+4                                                              88.2        39.0
6. ZR closed after 5 years "without" concessioning                            119.6        38.6
Overall, the economic analysis indicates that the project is robust, in tenns of benefits to the Zambian
economy. It is possible that the potential concessionaire will discount the potential of ZR when making
the initial offer for concession fees, but once the potential is realized will be prepared to increase the level
of fees in order to extend the period of the concession.
- 49 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ZAMBIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Years Ending
2001 - 2003
|Year 1  |Year 2  |Year 3  |Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  1  Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investrnent Costs          18.0         8.0        5.0
Recurrent Costs
Total Project Costs           18.0        8.0        5.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing               18.0        8.0        5.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   16.0        7.0        4.0
Government                  2.0        1.0        1.0
Central                 2.0         1.0        1.0
Provincial
Co-financiers
User Fees/Beneficiaries
Others
Others
Others
Others
Others
Total Project Financing      18.0        8.0        5.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Financial Analysis Summary
For computing the FRR:
(a)   the costs constitute the combined investments by GRZ (for staff rationalization and initial targeted
investments estimated at US$24 million etc.) and those by the concessionaires (estimated at US$15
million);
(b)   the traffic has been assumed to increase as in indicated in the section on economic analysis with
revenues increasing proportional to ntkms; and
(c)    unit costs have been assumed as in the ERR computation and expenditure assessed accordingly.
The financial rate of return on the combined investments made in Zarnbia Railways by GRZ and the
concessions has been estimated at 38.6%. It is clear that the financial rate of return is sufficient to permit
the concessionaire to make an acceptable return on his investments while also providing substantial
concession fees and corporate taxes to be paid to GRZ.
- 50 -



Sensitivity analysis. With traffic and cost scenario of the ERR traffic sensitivity case, i.e., zero percent
growth of traffic in the first three years and 3 % annual growth thereafter, the FRR comes to 21%. If the
cost reductions are also zero, then the FRR would be 5 %. It is obvious that, if after a huge investment of
over US$50 million, there is neither a growth in traffic nor a reduction in the operating cost, then the return
on investments will be dismal.
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ZAMBIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Procurement
For procurement arrangements see Table A andfor Prior review thresholds see Table B.
The main features of the procurement arrangements are as follows (values within parentheses indicate the
approximate value of goods/works/services proposed to be obtained through the specified procurement
method and are inclusive of physical and price contingencies):
Goods would be procured through:
(i)   International Competitive Bidding (US$4.3 million);
(ii)    National Competitive Bidding (US$1.0 million); and
(iii)   Limited intemational bidding, limiting the intemational bidding to original equipment
suppliers (US$0.8 million).
(iv)   Shopping (US$0.2 million)
Consultants' services would be procured through:
(i)    Quality and Cost Based Selection (US$2.0 million); and
(ii)   Selection Based on Quality of Consultants (US$0.3 million).
Training and retraining of retrenched staff would be procured through mutual consultation
(US$1.1 million).
US$17.3 million will be disbursed towards severance payments and US$1.9 million towards pension
payments.
Note: Figures in () are inclusive of contingencies.
- 52 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                                                                                      0.00
.____________________  o             0              0             0           (0.00)
2. Goods                            6.40           1.00           1.00                        8.40
(4.30)         (1.00)        (1.00)           0           (6.30)
3. Services                                                       2.30                        2.30
o)            ()           (2.30)           0           (2.30)
4. Training                                                       1.10                         1.10
o OO0                      (1.10)           0           (1.10)
5. Severance Payments                                            17.30                        17.30
o 0                        (17.30)          0           (17.30)
6. Pension Payments                                               1.90                         1.90
..___________________ _  o)           ()              0             0 O         (0.00)
Total                            6.40           1.00          23.60          0.00          31.00
(4.30)         (1.00)        (21.70)        (0.00)       (27.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
v Includes civil works and goods to be procured througlh ntionlu shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local governuent
units.
- 53 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           2.00     0.30      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      2.30
(2.00)    (0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.30)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
Total   2.00     0.30      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     2.30
(2.00)    (0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.30)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other =
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 54 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works
2. Goods                    >US$100,000                  ICB                      All
>US$ 100,000                LIB                       All
>US$30,000                  NCB                      All
<US$30,000                Shopping
3. Services                 >USS100,000              QCBS (Firm)                  All
>US$50,000               CQ (Firm)                   All
>US$50,000              Individual*
<US$50,000               Individual*
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
* All terms of reference will be subject to prior review.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 55 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C shows the allocations of the proceeds of the Credit. The proceeds of the IDA Credit of US$27.0
million will be disbursed over the Project period, i.e., from the date of effectiveness to December 31, 2003.
A period of six months will be allowed after the closing date to request disbursements for expenditures
incurred prior to the closing date.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be
fully documented except for: (a) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$ 100,000 each or
less for goods; and (b) technical assistance contracts with firms costing less than the equivalent of
US$100,000 and technical assistance contracts with individuals costing less than the equivalent of
US$50,000, and all force account works, recurrent operational costs, and training. Disbursement and
withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992 edition).
Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by the implementing
agencies for review when requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. All disbursements
are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the
Disbursement Letter.
Special Account. To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for goods and services, the
Government will open three Special Accounts in a commercial bank under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, to cover parts of IDA's share of eligible expenditures. One Special Account shall be
in the name of ZRL (ZRL Account); a second Special Account in the name of ZPA (ZPA Account); and a
third Special Account in the name of the MCT (MCT Account). The authorized allocation of the Special
Account for ZRL would be US$2.5 million and those for ZPA and MCT US$0.25 million each covering an
estimated four months of eligible expenditures to be financed by IDA. In view of the fast track nature of
the project and the expected early utilization of funds to ensure achievement of project success, the
Authorized Allocations shall not be limited to below the specified amounts at any time during the project.
Zambia Railways, MCT, and ZPA will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications
for their respective accounts with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. To the extent
possible, all of IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the Special Account.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditu, ato,otn Slin
Goods                                       5.60              100% of foreign and 90% of local
expenditures (*)
Consultant Services                         2.10           100% of foreign and local expenditures
Training                                    1.00           100% of foreign and local expenditures
Severance payments                          16.20               100% of local expenditures
Unallocated                                 2.10
Total Project Costs                         27.00
Total                                      27.00
(*) No local expenditures in these categories are anticipated
However, if a local expenditure incur the above articulated rule will apply..
- 56 -



Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements
Zambia Railways Limited (ZRL)
Zambia Railways Limited (ZRL) will be the implementing agency for the Asset Rehabilitation and
Environment Mitigation, Staff Retrenchment, and the Restructuring of ZRL/Winding Up Components. An
Implementation Committee, headed by a Project Manager has been established to undertake the day to day
implementation of the project. The Accounts Section will be managed by the Head of Management
Accounting on a full time basis. Support to the Management Accountant will be made by three Senior
Accountants (Treasury, Infrastructure and Workshops) from the existing ZRL establishment. The
Management Accountant will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting
procedures for the ZRL component of the Project will be acceptable to the World Bank, GRZ and ZRL's
Board of Directors. Existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement
Handbook, will be followed, i.e., Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment (if
appropriate).
ZRL's financial management systems will support management in their deployment of resources with the
purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve
desired outcomes. ZRL's financial management system will be expected to produce timely, understandable,
relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor, and
appraise the project's progress towards achievement of the stated goals. ZRL's current financial
management arrangements meet the minimum requirements to comply with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02.
Outline of Disbursement Procedures for Severance Payments. The procedures would entail the following
key steps:
(a) Once staff is declared surplus, the ZRL would complete the retrenchment formalities and compute the
severance and pension withdrawal payments for each staff.
(b) The retrenchment papers would then be sent to the necessary authorities for endorsement.
(c) ZRL would then prepare invoices for groups of staff providing computation details for each individual
staff included in the invoice with regard to the severance payments.
(d) These invoices would be audited by an independent auditor. This auditor would certify that the
computation of severance and pension withdrawal payments is in accordance with the Government
approved staff retrenchment formula.
(e) ZRL would make the severance payments to the staff in accordance with the invoices from the special
account.
Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA)
ZPA will be responsible for implementing the Railway Concessioning component of the project. They will
also handle the funds for the Staff Counseling, Re-deployment and Social Mitigation component that will
be implemented by the National Social Safety Net (NSSN). ZPA is familiar with handling donor funds and
has been responsible for privatization of numerous public enterprises. A core team headed by a Project
Manager and including a professionally qualified accountant has been formed to spearhead the project.
The financial management system successfully used in accounting for more than two hundred privatized
enterprises will be used to manage the IDA resources for the project. This system meets the Bank's
minimum requirements to comply with OP/BP 10.02.
- 57 -



Ministry of Communication and Transport (MCT)
MCT is currently assembling staff to implement the Regulatory Framework and MCT Strengthening
components. For MCT to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its financial management system will
be based on the Financial Management Action Plan, with the following key features:
(a) A competent financial manager supported by appropriately qualified staff with oversight provided by a
financial management committee that would manage the funds.
(b) An internal controls/financial procedure manual would be prepared describing detailed internal control
procedures.
(c) Internal auditing will be undertaken on a regular basis.
(d) The accounting system would be based on a sound information technology.
(e) The financial manager, in consultation with the financial management committee, would prepare the
project's monthly/quarterly/annual cash flow forecast.
(f) The project funds would be accounted for by on a cash basis.
(g) The World Bank procurement procedures should be observed as outlined in guidelines: procurement
under IDA credits and guidelines for the use of consultants by World Bank borrowers and by the
World Bank as executing agency.
(h) Detailed internal control procedures over financial management issues relating to staff rationalization
will be documented in the financial procedure manual to be prepared.
(i) A fixed assets register will be prepared, regularly updated and periodically checked.
(j) A procurement management report will be presented quarterly by the procurement officer to the
financial management committee.
(k) The Financial Manager will be responsible for preparing a monthly status of funds report for the
financial management committee, quarterly/annual financial statements, dedicated account
statement/reconciliation, and Statement of Expenses (SOE) withdrawal schedule (if appropriate); and
Audit. The Project accounts, SOEs and the Special Account will be audited each year by an independent
auditing firm appointed by the Auditor General under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. In addition
to the annual financial statements conforming to Intemational Standards on Auditing (IFAC Standards), the
audit report will include comments on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE
procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for credit disbursements. Audit
reports will be submitted to IDA no later than six months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
In addition, ZRL would be required to submit annual entity audit reports also within six months following
the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ZAMBIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12                            12
First Bank mission (identification)              01/15/99                      02/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                      06/26/2000                    06/23/2000
Negotiations                                     08/12/2000                    10/10/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    01/15/2000
Prepared by:
Yash Pal Kedia
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
iNam.e                                      SNpeciality
Yash Pal Kedia                     Team Leader/Principal Railway Specialist
Simon Thomas                       Sr. Transport Economist
Stephen Brushett                   Sr. Operations Officer
Aberra Zerabruk                    Sr. Counsel
Steve Gaginis                      Sr. Disbursement Officer
Pascale Dubois                     Sr. Counsel
Francesco Sarno                    Principal Procurement Specialist
Cyprian Fisiy                      Sr. Social Scientist
Brighton Musungwa                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Serigne Omar Fye                   Environment Specialist
Imogene Jensen                     Sr. Economist
Gualberto Lima Canpos              Operations Analyst
Annette Minott                     Program Assistant
- 59 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ZAMBIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Borrower Implementation Plan, including Procurement Plan, May 2000
Procedures Manual and Reporting Scheme, May 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoires:
February 1999               Identification
September 1999             Preparation
March 2000                  Pre-Appraisal
June 2000                   Appraisal
C. Other
Specialized Study Reports
Environmental Impact Assessment and Audit Study, Z. Phiri and P. Zulu, December 1999
Zambia Railways Private Sector Participation Study, CPCS Transcom Ltd, March 1999
Infrastructure Assets Valuation Study, RITES, September 1999
Operating Assets Valuation Study, RITES, September 1999
Staff Retrenchment Study, Zambia Railways Limited, January 2000
Social Impact Assessment, Zambia Railways Limited, April 2000
Social Impact Study of the Reorganisation and Concessioning of Zambia Railway Ltd., Kane Consult, July
2000
Three Year Revival Plan, Zambia Railways Limited, Hifab/DE-Consult, November 1998
Privatisation/Restructuring of Zambia Railways, Project Proposal Document, National Social Safety Net,
May 2000
Social and Economic Restructuring of Zambia Railways, Project Implementation Plan, National Social
Safety Net, July 2000
Zambia Rail Concessioning Economic and Financial Analysis, Electronic File, The World Bank, May 2000
*Including electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ZAMBIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Miblons          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                     IBRD     IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev d
P003218       1995 Zambia                    AGRICULTURE SECTOR I                              0.00     60.00       0.00      15.75     19.89      1.21
P003249       1999 Zambia                    BASIC ED SEC INV PRG                              0.00     40.00       0.00     30.48      15.55      2.42
P044324       1997 Zambia                    ENTERPRISE DEVELPMNT                              0.00     45.00       0.00     36.21      33.75      0.00
P040642       1998 Zambia                    ERIPTA                                            0.00     23.00       0.00      4.00       4.62      0.00
P003253       1997 Zambia                    Environmental Support Program                     0.00     12.80       0.00      9.91       5.15      0.00
P039016       2000 Zambia                    FISCAL SUJST. ADJ CREDIT                          0.00    140.00       0.00     93.72       0.00      0.00
P003239       1995 Zambia                    HEALTH SECTOR                                     0.00     56.00       0.00     28.07      29.29      0.00
P064064       2000 Zambia                    MINE TOWNSHIP SERVICES PROJECT                    0.00     37.70       0.00     36.93       0.00      0.00
P003236       1998 Zambia                    NATIONAL ROAD                                     0.00     70.00       0.00     41.26      -2.75      0.00
P035076       1998 Zambia                    POWER REHAB                                       0.00     75.00       0.00      70.46     80.31      0.00
P050400       2000 Zambia                    PUB SVC CAP (PSCAP)                               0.00     28.00       0.00     27.42       0.00      0.00
P003210       1995 Zambia                    SOCIAL RECOVERY II                                0.00     30.00       0.00      0.38       4.03      0.00
P063584       2000 Zambia                    Social Investment Fund (ZAMSF)                    0.00     64.70       0.00      61.92     -1.25      0.00
P003241       1995 Zambia                    URBAN RESTRCT &WATER                              0.00     33.00       0.00      6.07       3.07      1.93
Total:       0.00      715.20        0.00     460.568   171.66      5.56
- 61 -



ZAMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
20-Sep-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998               AEFAmakaCotton                 1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Big Five Car               0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEFDrilltech                   0.16    0.00    0.15    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.15    0.00
1999               AEF Esquire                    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF JY Estates                 0.89    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.89    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               AEFKailaLodge                  0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Pentire                    0.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.53    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000               APC Ltd.                       2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1972/73            Bata Shoe ZA                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Finance Banlk                  3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.25    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               IMDHZ                          0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50      0.00    0.00
2000               KCM                            0.00    5.20   24.80    0.00    0.00    5.20    3.70    0.00
1998               Nicozamn                       0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00
1999/00            Zamcell                        3.30    0.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        13.45    6.44   24.95    0.00    6.65    6.44      3.85    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1999              AEF Kembe Estate                1300.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              AEF Mpelembe                     700.00    300.00     0.00      0.00
2000               AEF QNet                        340.00      0.00     80.39      0.00
2000               Lusaka InterCon                4600.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997               Safari Intl.                  2000.00      0.00    750.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      8940.00    300.00    830.39     0.00
- 62 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ZAMBIA: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan      Low-
Zambla      Africa   Income       Development diamond'
a999
Population, mid-year (miltihns)                          9.9       642      2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                       330        500       410
GNP (Atlas nuthod, US$ billions)                         3.2        321       988
Average annual growth, 1S93S90
Population (X)                                           2.5        2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                          2.8        2.6       2.3      GNP                                Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 193-S99)                                   per                              primary
Pov *rty (% of population below national poverty line)    73                           c                   ,
Urban population (% of total population)                  44         34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          45         50        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 114         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                27         32        43                Access to cafe water
Access to improv ad water source (% of population)        43         43        64
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15.)                       22         39        39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)     89         78        96
Male                                                   92         85       102       -Zar,bis -Low-income group
Female                                                 86         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONOGTERM TRENDS
1075     1960       1098      1909
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                              3.3      4.0        3.2       3.1
Gross domestic inv estment/GDP                 14.2     10.8       18.3      17.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP             45.6      26.8       26.7      22.3                       Trade
Gross domestic sav ingslGDP                    23.2      3.8        3.9      -1.1
Grose national sav lngs/GDP                    15.0      -7.1      -3.6       -6.8
Current account balance/GOP                     1.1     -5.6      -17.8      .15.8
Interest paymentsGIDP                           2.8      1.9        2.8       5.2      Domestic                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 91.3    188.0      215.5     206.9       SavIngs
Total debt service/exports                     22.1     13.8       25.8      38.1
Present value of debtIGDP                                         170.3     125.7
Present v alue of debtbexports                                    575.9     454.5
Indebtedness
197949  1550-99      lose       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                   1.1       0.2     -1.9        2.4        4.7
GNP per capita                       -3.2      -1.8     -51         2.2        2.        -     Zambia -        Low-income group
Exports of goode and servicee        -3.1       2.9      5.0        4.9       11.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                    1379      1086       1903      1390       Growth of Investment and ODP (%)
Agriculture                                    18.5     21.2       21.2       24.6     10o
Industry                                                           29.1      24.5       so
Manufacturing                                                    13.0      12.0
Serv ices                                                          49.7      50.9       s-1    98   97   98   so
Priv ate consumption                           52.9     82.5       84.9       91.5    -100
General government consumption                 23.9     13.7       11.2       9.6
Imports of goods and services                  38.6     33.8       39.2      40.9                   GODI        -o-GDP
1379080  16099-9       1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     3.8      3.4        1.8       13.7     202
Industry                                                -3.8      -11.3      -4.9
Manufacturing                                          3.3        1.8       2.8  o   \
Serv ices                                                5.7        4.4       5.2
Private consumption                             3.2      0.4       -1.3       2.e 46           94 107    a   a
General gov ernment consumption                -3.8     -5.5      -14.8      -15.8
Gross domestic inv estment                     -3.6      3.3        9.3       8.7      20
Imports of goods and services                  -2.3      1.3        4.8        1.6            -     Exprts     c.-Imports
Gross national product                         -0.2      0.9       -2.9       4.4
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds chow four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-63 -



Zambia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1988     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(96 change)                                                                      200
Consumer prices                              9.7   127.7       24.4     26.8    150
Implicit GDP deflator                       21.3    80.9       19.6     21.7    100
Govemment flnance                                                                 50
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                0
Current revenue                               ..    18.6       18.7     17.6              94   95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                        ..    -4.4        1.4      2.6             -GDPdebtor         c  cPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -6.6       -9.8    -10.0      _
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1998      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                        1,408    1,410       816      755     1,200
Copper                                      ..   1,233        365      372
Cobalt                                      ..      84        155       95      soo
Manufactures                                ..      36        194      188
Total imports (cif)                         756      901       971       871      600
Food                                        ..      14       108         0
Fuel and energy                             ..    103         42       115      300
Capital goods                               ..    372        539       523        0
Export pnce index (1995=100)                   .      92        70        69           93  94  95  96  97  so  99
Import price index (1995=100)                55       79        87        88                 *Exports     *Inpors
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..    116         81        79
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ nillions)                             1979    1989       1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              1,523    1,493      919       842      0
Imports of goods and services              1,212    1,281     1,253    1,169
Resource balance                            311      212       -334     -327
Net income                                  -169    -406       -215     -156      4*
Net current transfers                      -105   -28    -27   -16                   I 'll                 "        '
Current account balance                      37    -222        -576     -499      12
Financing items (net)                       -146     487       365       518
Changes in net reserves                      109    -265       211       -19    -ts
llemo:
Reserves including gold (US$ nifrons)      191      123        69        50
Conversion rate (DEC, localAJSS)             0.8    13.8   1,862.0  2,388.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$  ilions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       3,047    6,709     6,982    6,518
IBRD                                      336      501        42       33                   G: 329 A: 33
IDA                                         1      253     1,562    1,704              F 121
Total debt service                           340     206        247      331                                     704
IBRD                                       41        0        25       12
IDA                                         0        0        16       16
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            58      194       257      214        EZ895
Official creditors                        305       90       -54       66
Private creditors                           1       11       -11       -20                _                    1,171
Foreign direct investment                  35      164        72      163                      _
Portfolio equity                                                                                   0: 2as
World Bank program
Commitments                                11        0        75      213      A-8RD                       E- Blateral
Disbursements                              28        4        43      156      B. IDA    D- Other rmutiateral   F - Pruate
Principal repayments                       13        0        25        13     C-IMF                       G-Short-trm
Net flows                                  16        4        18      143
Interest payments                          29        0        16        15
Net transfers                             -13        4         2      128
Development Economics                                       - 64 -                                                 9/9(00



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Social Impact Assessment
ZAMBIA - RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Purpose and Objectives of Study
Faced with shrinking revenues and financial support from the Government, ZR has been reducing its staff
since 1990. The staff strength, about 10,000 in 1990, currently stands at about 3,300. Staff reduction was
achieved mainly through natural attrition and voluntary early retirement until 1998, when for the first time,
2,000 staff were retrenched involuntarily. The downsizing process has not as yet reached its end and more
staff retrenchments are in the offing, even though the estimates of such retrenchments vawy. The optimal
staff strength for the current and potential traffic, according to ZR is about 1,800 while, based on recent
experience, the potential concessionaires could be expected to settle for no more than 800 to 900 staff.
That would mean a further retrenchment of between 1,500 and 2,400 staff.
Given the extent of retrenchment required, a Social Impact Study was carried out to: (a) assess the social
and economic impact of retrenchment on staff who were retrenched in 1998 and 1999 and their
communities; (b) make recommendations for more efficiently and effectively managing the retrenchment
exercise with minimal economic and social costs to both the retrenchees and the company; and (c) make
recommendations for improving ZR's program of action for the mitigation of any potential negative social
effects on future retrenchees and identify programs beneficial to them. Brief excerpts are indicated below.
The main report is available in the Project files.
Methodology,
A total of 396 people from five main groups were targeted for this assessment. The groups were: (a)
workers currently employed in ZR; (b) trade union representatives; (c) middle management; (d) top
management; and (e) workers who were retrenched in 1998 and 1999. The locations covered were
Livingstone, Choma, Pemba, Kafue, Lusaka, Kabwe, Kafulafuta, Ndola, Kitwe, Chingola and
Chililabombwe. Survey instruments used included questionnaires, focus groups and semi-structured
interviews.
Impacts
Impact on Retrenched Workers and their Community. The two positive aspects of retrenchment, as far as
the retrenched workers were concemed, were the opportunity to invest money in long desired items such as
a house, and the opportunity to go into another field of endeavor, such as agriculture. The main complaints
of already retrenched workers involved the size of and, even more so, the delays with which the severance
payments were made. These delays led to financial hardship, as some retrenched workers had to take out
high interest loans to "tide" them over until receipt of the payoff from ZR. A relatively small percentage,
18 percent, invested the money in ways to generate more income. Other than late payments, the
respondents identified three seriously negative aspects of retrenchment as follows: (i) poverty and
destitution due to the loss of a reliable source of income; (ii) loss of the social services (e.g., clinics,
schools, recreation facilities) provided by ZR, and (iii) the stigma attached to sudden "unemployed" status,
causing former workers to be looked down on by family as well as members of their communities.
Impact on the Workers and Management of ZR. On the part of the remaining workers at ZR, there have
- 65 -



been complaints of overwork. In addition, there seems to have been a misconception that a decrease in staff
levels would result in a pay hike for the remaining staff. There have also been reports of resentment
towards staff who have been retrenched and then rehired on a contract basis at a higher salary (these
separations were financed by ZRL with their own funds and restrictions on rehiring were not imposed).
Manaeement of the Retrenchment Prosram
Staff surveyed felt that ZR had not properly managed the past two retrenchment exercises and
recommended that the process be looked at two levels - at the company level and at the level of the staff
being retrenched. At the management level, a restructuring exercise should clearly explain the redefined
goals, and objectives envisioned. The current organizational structure should be reviewed against the new
mission objectives. With respect to those being retrenched, the main areas in which the retrenchment
process needs improvement are as follows:
* Pay packages should be paid on time: According to the study, 48% of the staff retrenched and 53% of
the staff still employed regarded this item as the most crucial.
*  Provision ofadeguate notice of the impending retrenchment: Notices should be given in timely and
sensitive fashion. Once identified, staff should be given six months notice of retrenchment.
*  Proper Job evaluation: Both retrenched workers and current ZR workers complained of the number of
employees who had been retrenched, then rehired at a higher salary. One recommendation from the
survey was that a skills assessment be done, and a uniform percentage of employee be retrenched in all
departments regardless of the manpower situation in these departments. The perception of faimess
clearly is an issue.
Mitigation of Negative Social and economic Impact
Counseling: Staff claimed that during the previous two retrenchment exercises, there was no provision for
staff counseling. The need for staff was emphasized with counseling focusing on the need to plan one's
future in light of the change, including guidance on how to manage the sudden receipt of a large amount of
money, how to invest in a new business, and how to acquire and use new skills.
Training: Much of the training ZR employees have received is unusable outside ZR. The study
recommended that training in the areas of farming, business management; mechanics/electrical, civil
engineering, accountancy, craft among others should be explored. To this end, the National Social Safety
Net has a big role to play, as well as other organizations such as Future Search, Micro and Small Scale
Enterprises, TEVET, and the Public Welfare Association. Retrenched workers interested in farming should
be encouraged to participate in the Land Resettlement Scheme, which gives free land to persons who wish
to engage in productive agriculture.
- 66 -



IBRD 31136
ZAMBIA                                                                      t   o-TNAI
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                    jA/Z< BNI
/   if  A                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Mlnoyo
ZAMBIA RALWAYS NETWORK BEING               TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS                    t             Want/pa
OFFERED FOR CONCESSI)NING                PAILROADS                               chfmg
OAt SE   NEIGHBORING RAILWAY NETWORKS
0   PROVINCE CAPITALS
- S8   PARTOFTAZARALOCATEDINZAMBIA                NATIONALCAPIAL                    CA       Kowomr wo
0*000 ZAMBIARAILWAYSNETWORK(NOT
BEING OFFERED FOR CONCESSIONINGI  P---PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES          t         '         Luwmngo
Jintla             ~~~~~~~~~~DEM. REP.   T./ho L(i./
C            @>\'/'-'-'{OF CONGO                            '      h                                                                                               ;
A N GAL A                                                                                                                                                S1, (                            : <-<>>a f /L) tASTERN  0
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
\            {   )             W                   10    >       ablus_ipiN   $akaniDOA                                                 
K.b..                                                                                                                                    MALAWI
h oir  olr                              Koftot.  0kdz 
j  /  Lukulu        !              --XC                   ds<-< v                t                 / /                    32oMOZAMBIQUE    340
i tONGU                                                                4                                                                     ~ gONGO DEMD REP. BURUNET /  -,
OPFCONGO
| T; E R N                                  N..                                                                                    ANGOLA
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uoo,~s 2    R 
SOUTHE  oow..6 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~AAIIAIeowto4 
BOTSWANA       26                                  eou~~~~M.    ,nu. dM  B     B W  
22                                                 In Victoria Foils I BuIowoyo   280 ~%  0  0    10    1502W O  20KLMTR
SWANA  2.6'    T. Vid.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i. F.11, 80-y. ~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOBER 20600



