E-391
ZAMBIA PRIVATISATION AGENCY
- w
ZAMBIA RAILWAYS ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
STUDY
Prepared by:
Dr. Zabediah Phiri and Mr. PaUson ZYlu
C/o Depwrtmeo of Civil Ewgineernig
Untversity of Zambia
P.O. Box 32379
TelFax: +26(-1-290962
E*JMail: zphtrira;3cDeiz,20
Date: April, 2000






EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                                        iv
1. INTRODUCTION                                                          I
1.1 Background                                                        I
1.2 Purpose of the Environmental Assessment                            1
1.3 Objectives, Scope and Methodology of the Environmental Assessment  1
1.4 Definitions                                                       2
2. LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK                                   2
3. ZAMBIA RAILWAYS - COMPANY DESCRIPTION                                  6
3.1 Historical Background                                              6
3.2 Mission                                                            7
3.3 The Organisation                                                   7
3.3.1  Management Structure                                         7
3.3.2  Freight Services and Rolling Stock                          7
3.3.3  Key Statistics                                               8
3.3.4  Track Data                                                  8
3.3.5  Signalling and Telecommunications                           9
3.3.6  Motive Power                                                10
3.3.7  Workshops                                                   10
4. ENVIRONMENTAL PROFILE OF ZAMBIA RAILWAYS - AUDIT FINDINGS 10
4.1 Safety and Occupational Health Management at Zambia Railways      10
4.1.1  Safety and Occupational Health Policy                       10
4.1.2  Zamnbia Railways Safety Rules                               11
4.1.3  Other Safety - Related Documents                            12
4.1.4  Non-ZRL Documents                                           12
4.1.5  Observations                                                13
4.1.6  Safety and Occupational Health Checklist                    13
4.2 Environmental Management at Zambia Railways                       16
4.2.1  General                                                     16
4.2.2  Environmental Policy                                        16
4.2.3  Environmental Planning                                      16
4.2.4  Implementation and Operation                                17
4.2.5  Checking and Corrective Action                              19
4.2.6  Management Review                                           19
4.3 Physical Environmental Status                                     20
4.3.1  Hazardous Waste                                             20
4.3.2  Solid Waste                                                 21
4.3.3  Storage Facilities                                         21
4.3.4  Waste Discharges/Disposal                                   22
4.3.5  Waste Treatment and Disposal                                23
4.3.6  Health and Safety - Related Status                         23
4.3.7  Miscellaneous Environmentally Significant Attributes       23
4.3.8  Goods Transported on ZRL and their Environmental Impacts    24
4.3.9  Illegal Products Transported on ZRL and their Environmental Impacts 25
ii



5. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY CONCERNS/LIABILITY ISSUES AND
IMPROVEMENT PROPOSALS                                                  25
5.1 Major Concerns                                                     25
5.2 Major Liability Issues                                             34
5.3 Environmental Impact Assessments for Future Rehabilitation Works   35
6. CAPACITY OF ECZ AND GRZ TO MONITOR CONTINGENT
ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGES                                                  35
7. CONCLUSIONS                                                             36
8. ACTION PLAN                                                             37
8.1 Remediation and Monitoring Plan                                    37
8.2 Institutional Responsibilities for Clean-up                         43
.8.3 Roles and Responsibilities of National Agencies in Monitoring and Evaluation of
Plan                                                                 44
9. APPENDICES                                                              46
9.1 Self Assessment and Gap Analysis Questionnaire                      46
9.2 Staff Consulted/Interviewed at ZRL                                  56
9.3 Documents Consulted                                                 57
9.4 Schematic Layout of the ZRL Central Workshops, Kabwe                58
9.5 ZRL Track Work Details                                              59
iii



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
In July 1998, the Cabinet of the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) directed
that Zambia Railways be studied for the exploration of the possibility of entering into
concessions for some operations and consultants have recommended certain modes of
concessioning. A concessioning process is proposed which will probably lead to the
operations of ZRL being concessioned during the year 2000. To that end, several
consultancy studies have been commissioned. The environmental assessment study is one
of them.
The purpose of the environmental assessment study was to examine the environmental
conditions, the legislative and regulatory frameworks and determine the need for clean-up
and other remedial measures as well as to review the institutional capacities for
compliance and enforcement of environment and safety-related issues. The assessment
and audit exercise focused on solid waste discharges, hazardous waste
discharges/materials; and occupational health and safety issues. The scope of the work
encompassed investigations, information collection, interviews, document reviews and
detailed assessments of environmental impacts that may have been caused by ZRL. The
asssessment exercise also took cognisance of the fact that the project had to comply with
the World Bank's ten environmental and social safeguard policies. Remediation measures
were also identified. The following were the major conclusions:
(a) Mandatory Matters
* ZRL has a fairly elaborate company policy(with associated rules and procedures) for
safety and health at work. The company, however, has no site specific safety and
occupational health plans. Furthermore, adequate and appropriate protective
equipment, clothing and accessories are in short supply. Safety and occupational
health training is not regularly availed to all employees. Occupational health matters
are stipulated in the Factories Act.
Liquid waste discharges mainly consist of oil-water/oil-washings admixtures. Small
percentages of acid and caustic soda also find their way into drains. The oily
discharges are freely discharged into unauthorised areas adjacent to the workshops.
The situation is very unsatisfactory. The Environmental Council of Zambia has an
important role to play here.
There is no air pollution monitoring program
The environmental impacts of ZRL's track weed control program(chemical spray)
and the use of wooden sleepers are unknown. This is unsatisfactory.
Under existing environmental legislation in Zambia, responsibility for clean up lies
squarely with ZRL("Polluter Pays Principle").
(a) Recommended Practice
iv



* ZRL has neither an environmental policy nor an environmental management system.
There is, however, growing interest at ZRL to formulate an environmental policy. It is
commendable to note that ZRL has a safety and environment department headed by a
manager. The environment function was added to the department just over a year ago.
The environment agenda is therefore relatively new at ZRL.
• ZRL is an enterprise in serious need of both technical and managerial know-how in
order to improve environmental management and performance. There is inadequate
environmental knowledge and skills generally. There is also inadequate knowledge of
relevant pieces of legislation and regulations; and compliance requirements. ZRL
does not have any environmental permits obtainable under the Envirorunental
Protection and Pollution Control Act. Environmental checking and corrective actions
are also non-existent. This report provides a sound basis for better information and
compliance.
* Significant amounts of hazardous wastes are generated by ZRL. These include fuel
and lubricant oil wastes/admixtures, furnace heavy metal slug and wastewaters
entrained with caustic soda. The handling and disposal of hazardous materials does
not conform to cleaner production practices. The SADC hazardous materials
handbook and the ISO 14000 series of satandards are useful sources for remedial
action.
* The arrangements for solid waste collection and disposal are haphazard. The major
solid waste categories include scrap metal, furnace slag, machine shop swarf, saw
dust and waste coke.
*  There is a serious environmental, occupational health and safety problem associated
with copper concentrate droppings at Kitwe, other Copperbelt stations and on the
Copperbelt lines generally. The copper droppings dust is an occupational health
hazard particularly to shunting staff. The droppings are also extremely corrosive to
the rails and the state and integrity of the railway system at these stations have been
severely affected. All the parties involved must find a lasting solution.
* The potential health hazards at the workshops include paint fumes, fine metal dusts
and noise. The hazards associated with copper concentrate handling/loading and
mine-related environment pollution on Zambia's Copperbelt also need mention.
(b) Compliance by Others
* ZRL handles huge quantities of petroleum fuel and lubricant oils. Storage tanks are a
mixture of above ground and underground tanks. Permits exist for storage tanks
although the responsibility for the integrity and safety of the tanks lies with the
petroleum and gas companies themselves. There is no formal self inspection program
for storage facilities and the storage areas are not always properly identified by
posters. The Petroleum Act and the Environmental Protection and Pollution control
Acts must be complied with.
• The company has no environmental emergency preparedness and response plan. This
is highly unsatisfactory and can lead to prosecution and remediation costs associated
with contingent environmental damages caused by transported goods, for example.
*  The Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ) and its inspectorates are still very much
in their infancy. Zambia's supreme environmental legislation, the Environmental
v



Protection and Pollution Control Act was enacted in 1990. Setting up the ECZ took
some years after that and the putting in place of regulations is still in progress. There
are currently no established environmental monitoring programs even for non-
contingent environmental damages. The capacity of ECZ to monitor contingent
environmental damages needs to be augmented.
(c) Monitoring for Good Practice
* The quality of the borehole water at the central workshops is not regularly monitored
A costed action plan with the following elements has been developed. In the plan, it is
assumed that the current ZRL will cease to be in its present form within the next 12
months or so and that thereafter a concessionare will take over. The responsibilities are
therefore tentatively spread between the current ZRL management and the concessionaire
as follows:
(a) Concessionaire
* Development of an environmental policy and implementation of an environmental
management system (EMS)
* It is recommended that an environmental audit be done every five years
* Development and introduction of cleaner production practices
Installation, operation and maintenance of pollution control equipment and adoption
of better methods of final disposal of hazardous wastes - some short-term measures
may be implemented by ZRL
* Development and implementation of a solid waste collection and disposal system
* Training of safety and environment inspectors in matters related to storage facilities -
ZRL could also take some short-term measures
Introduction of a wastewater treatment plant operation and maintenance program and
effluent monitoring program
Introduction of an air pollution monitoring program
Development and implementation of site-specific environment, health and safety
plans
*  Acquisition and provision of appropriate safety attire and accessories for staff- ZRL
could also take some measures in the interim
*  Competence and awareness safety and environment training for all staff- ZRL could
also take some deliberate measures in the interim
* Establishment of management review procedures (as part of EMS)
* Development and implementation of environmental preparedness and response plans
particularly with respect to transported goods
*  Miscellaneous programs/studies including environmental impact assessments of track
weed control program, use of wooden sleepers, etc.
vi



(b) ZRL management
* Clean up of contaminated sites - including workshop premises, unauthorised disposal
areas and some Copperbelt stations contaminated with copper concentrate droppings
* Also the issues identified above as joint responsibilities
In order to address the above issues in the above manner, the expected cost of actions
assigned to ZRL and to be done by March 2001 is approximately US$200 000 as detailed
in the Action Plan.
The major liability issues include:
*  Operations without environmental permits or licenses on water, wastes, etc
*  Lack of monitoring of pollutants released at various facilities
*  Disposal of admixtures of waste oil, acids, caustic soda, etc into unauthorized areas
and without pretreatment
*  Lack of environmental preparedness and response plans
*  Environmental, Occupational health and safety liabilities arising out of copper
concentrate droppings on the Copperbelt
The conclusions and plans have been arrived at after taking full cognizance of the fact
that environmental policies, legislation, institutions and debate are still in their infancy in
Zambia but that there is, nonetheless, need to take corrective actions now.
vii



Zambia RaiI,,ays Emironmental Assessment StudY
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 Background
In July 1998, the Cabinet of the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ)
directed that Zambia Railways Limited (ZRL) be studied for the exploration of the
possibility of entering into concessions for some operations and consultants have
recommended certain modes of concessioning. A concessioning process is proposed
which will probably lead to the operations of ZRL being concessioned during the year
2000. To this end several consultancy studies have been commissioned. The
environmental assessment study is one of them.
Currently, the responsibility for safety and environment-related regulation for ZRL is
exercised by ZRL itself, in a rather informal manner. GRZ's strategy aims to establish
a more satisfactory arrangement to enforce technical, economic, safety and
environmental regulations more effectively in view of the fact that the ZRL is a
source of pollution and other environmental problems.
1.2 Purpose of the Environmental Assessment
The need has therefore arisen to carry out an environmental assessment incorporating
an audit (snap shot of compliance, indication of potential liability) before undertaking
concessioning, to examine the environmental conditions, the legislative and
regulatory frameworks and determine the need for clean-up, and other remedial
measures as well as to review institutional capacities for compliance and enforcement
of environment and safety-related issues. The environmental assessment also
adderesses the need for the project to comply with the World Bank's ten
environmental and social safeguard policies and the relevant International and
Regional Conventions ratified by Zambia.
1.3 Objectives, Scope and Methodology of the Environmental Assessment
The specific objectives and scope of the assessment were as follows:
* To evaluate the existing conditions of ZRL against national and international
standards to determine the need for remedial actions necessary to bring the
enterprise into compliance prior to concessioning;
* To evaluate current practices at ZRL, against national and international standards
of environmental degradation to determine the need for action and investment
prior to or subsequent to concessioning to reach those operational standards;
* To measure the environmental conditions of the enterprise against the risk of
being held responsible for damages and degradation of the environment after
concessioning;
*  To use the audit findings to assess the environmental health and safety issues and
provide information necessary for internal planning before and during
concessioning and for planning;



2                                           Zambia Railhsys Environmental Assessment Study
To develop an action plan, which will serve as a basis for assigning clean-up
responsibilities both prior and post-concessioning as well as for determining the
future responsibilities of the public enterprise and the new private investor(s)
The scope of the work encompassed investigations, information collection,
interviews, document reviews and detailed assessments of the environmental impacts
that may have been caused by ZRL and identification of remediation measures. The
facilities inspected included Kabwe Workshops and ancillary facilities; and Kafue,
Kitwe, Kabwe and Lusaka Stations and environs.
The  asessment  focused  on  solid  waste  discharges,  hazardous  waste
discharges/materials; and occupational health and safety issues. The audit considered
both environmental management and environmental performance aspects in
investigating the integrity of systems and procedures currently in place at ZRL.
1.4 Definitions
For the purposes of the study, the following definitions were adopted:
(a) Environmental Audit: A systematic, documented, periodic, and objective
review of facility operations and practice related to environmental
requirements
(b) Hazardous Waste(UNEP, 1985): Wastes (solids, liquids, sludges,
containerised gases) other than radioactive and infectious wastes which by
reason of their chemical activity or toxic, explosive or other characteristic
cause danger or likely will cause danger to health and environment
whether alone or when coming into contact with other wastes
(c) Solid Waste: Those wastes other than liquids or gases which are deemed
by their owner to no longer possess value and are thus discarded
(d) Occupational Health and Safety: The practice of how to keep good health
and prevent the spread of disease at work (industrial hygiene/occupational
health(e.g. fumes, noise, temp)); and the state of mind by which employees
are made constantly aware of the possibilities of accident or injury at all
times (safety).
2. LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Presently there are about 30 pieces of legislation pertaining to the environment in
Zambia. These include:
(a) The Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act(1990)
Passed in 1990, this is the principal Act on environment in Zambia. The Act
provides for the establishment of an Environmental Council whose main
functions constitute the protection of the environrment and control of pollution
in particular so as to provide for the health and welfare of persons, animals,
plants and the environment in general.
(b) The Natural Resources Conservation Act (1970)



3                                         Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Study
Enacted in 1970, the Act provides for the establishment of the Natural
Resources Advisory Board whose main functions are to ensure the proper use,
conservation and improvement of natural resources. Some of the provisions of
the Act have since been repealed with the coming into force of the EPPCA.
This includes the abolition of the Natural Resources Advisory Board.
(c) The Town and Country Planning Act (1962)
The Act came into force in 1962 and provides for the appointment of planning
authorities whose main responsibilities are the preparation, approval and
revocation of development plans. It also provides for the control of
development and subdivision of land. The Act does not however apply to trust
land and land in Reserve and Mining Areas which fall under regional plans.
(d) The Water Act (1949)
The Act carne into force in 1949 and provides for the control, ownership and
use of water excluding that of the Zambezi, Luapula and Luangwa Rivers
which form borders with other countries. The Act establishes the Water Board
and regulates the use of public water including protection against pollution.
(e) The Fisheries Act (1974)
Enacted in 1974, the Act provides for the development of commercial fishing,
control of fishing and registration of fishermen and boats
(f) The National Parks and Wildlife Act (1991)
Passed in 1991, the Act provides for the establislunent, control and
management of National Parks; conservation and protection of wildlife and
objects of interest in National Parks; the establishment of Game Management
Areas; the licensing of hunting; control of possession of trophies and control
of bush fires.
(g) The Public Health Act (1930)
Passed in 1930, the Act has been amended from time to time. The Act
provides for prevention and suppression of diseases and general regulation of
all matters connected with public health in the country
(h) The Local Government Act (1991)
The Act came into force in 1991 and provides for the establishment of
Councils in districts, the functions of local authorities and the local
govermment system. Some of these functions relate to pollution control and
protection of the environment in general.



4                                            Zambia Railways Emironmenlal Assessment Smdy
(i)    The Local Administration (Trade Effluent) Regulations (Statutory Instrument
No. 161 of 1985)
The regulations provide for the control of medical, trade and industrial effluent
disposal
(j) Ionising Radiation Act (1975)
Passed in 1975, the Act provides for the protection of public workers from
dangers arising from the use of devices or materials capable of producing
ionising radiation
(k) Mines and Minerals Act
Originally passed in 1976, the Act provides for the granting of, renewal and
termination of mining rights. It also provides for the control of mining
activities with regard to environmental protection
(1) Agricultural Lands Act (1960)
The Act was passed in 1960 and provides for the protection and alienation of
land for agricultural purposes only
(m)The Factories Act (1967)
Enacted in 1967, the Act regulates the conditions of employment in factories
and other places of work as regards the safety, health and welfare of persons
employed there in. The Act also provides for the examination and inspection
of certain of certain plant and machinery in order to ensure safety
(n) The Investment Act(1993)
Passed in 1993, the Act provides a legal framework for investment in Zambia.
The Act relates to environment indirectly by providing incentives for tree
planting, soil and water conservation activities. The Act further recognises the
role of sectoral agencies including those responsible for environmental
protection in authorising specific projects
(o) The Tourism Act
Enacted in 1979, and arnended in 1985, the Act provides for the control of
tourism enterprises. The Act though making no direct reference to
environmental protection does provide for appeals against authorisation of
tourism projects which are deemed to negatively affect Zambian tourism
which is basically natural resource based.
(p) The Land Act (1995)



5                                            Zambia Railwys Environmental Assessment Sidy
The Act provides for the alienation, transfer, disposition and charge of land.
Although the Act does not refer to matters of conservation, it is important in
that land is one of the basic natural resources.
(q) The National Heritage Conservation Commission Act
Enacted in 1989, the Act provides for the conservation of ancient, cultural and
natural heritage, relics and other objects of aesthetic, historical, pre-historical,
archaelogical or scientific interest.
(r) Noxious Weeds Act
Enacted in 1953, the Act provides for the declaration and eradication of
noxious weeds
(s) International Game Park and Wildlife Act
The Act was enacted in 1971 to provide for the establishment of International
Game Parks
(t) The Agriculture, (Fertilisers and Feeds) Act (1990)
The Act became effective in 1990 and provides for the regulation and control
of the manufacture, processing, importation and sale of fertilisers and feeds. It
also provides for ensuring minimum standards of effectiveness of fertilisers
and feeds.
(u) Plumage Birds Protection Act (1915)
Passed in 1915, the Act prohibits dealing in plumage of wild birds except for
scientific or educational purposes
(v) The Forest Act (1974)
Enacted in 1974, the Act repealed the Forest Act (Cap 311) of the Laws of
Zambia. It provides for the establishment and management of national and
local forests, conservation and protection of forests and trees, and licencing
and sale of forest products.
(w)The Petroleum (Exploration and Production) Act (1985)
The Act was enacted in 1985 to regulate the exploration, development and
production of petroleum products in Zambia
(x) The Petroleum Act (1924)
The Act came into force in 1924 and provides for the regulation of the
importation, conveyance and storage of petroleum and other inflammable oils
and liquids for the protection of the public and the environment



6                                           Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Study
(y)   The Explosives Act
The Act camne into force in 1974 and provides for the regulation of the
manufacture, use, possession, storage, importation and destruction of
explosives. It also provides for the abandonment of explosive factories as well
as the discharge of effluent from any treatment process involving explosives.
(z) The Zambezi River Authority Act
Signed in 1987, the Act provides for the interstate agreement between Zambia
and Zimbabwe relating to the utilisation of the Zambezi River
(aa)     International and Regional Conventions
Zambia is party to a number of international and regional conventions that
address common environmental concerns. These include the Convention
Concerning the Protection of Workers against Occupational Hazards in the Work
ing Environment due to Air and Noise and Vibration.
The major relevant Acts for ZRL, therefore are the Environmental Protection and
Pollution Control Act (EPPCA), the Factories Act, the Petroleum Act, the Public
Health Act and the Local Government Act. The relevant subsidiary regulations
under the EPPCA are as follows:
*  Pesticides and Toxic Substances Regulations (1994)
*  Water Pollution Control (Effluent and Wastewater) Regulations (1993)
*  Waste Management (Transporters and Waste Disposal Sites) (1993)
*  Air Pollution (Licencing and Emission Standards) Regulations (1996)
-  Environmental Protection and Pollution Control (Environmental Impact
Assessment) Regulations (1997)
Hazardous waste regulations are still in draft form. The regulations basically seek to
categorse wastes into classes and to provide for means of handling, storage,
pretreatment, transportation and disposal. ZRL will have to take steps to comply with
the above pieces of legislation and regulations.
3. ZAMBIA RAILWAYS - COMPANY DESCRIPTION
3.1 Historical Background
What is now Zambia Railways Limited was formerly the North-Western
Region of Rhodesia Railways with its regional headquarters at Kabwe while
the company's headquarters was in Bulawayo (Southem Rhodesia then). The
construction of the railway line started at Victoria Falls Bridge in 1903 and
was finally connected to what is now Congo - DR in 1909.
In 1967, the Zambian government passed the Zambia Railways Act, which
gave birth to the Zambia Railways Board. In 1978, the government decided
that Zambia Railways should transfer to Zambia Industrial and Mining



7                                          Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Shudy
Corporation (ZIMCO) with effect from January, 1979. This transfer necessitated the
incorporation of a new company, limited by shares and the dissolution of the
Zambia Railways Board.
In 1982, the Railways Act vested all assets and liabilities of Zambia Railways
Board into Zambia Railways Limited, a company incorporated under the
companies Act of Zambia. The transfer provided autonomy to the company to
determine its own tariffs.
3.2 Mission
The mission of the company is to provide an efficient and effective freight and
passenger rail service operated on commercial principles.
3.3 The Organisation
Zambia Railways extends from Livingstone to Kitwe with branch lines on the
Copperbelt to serve all towns. At Choma, the line is linked to Maamba
Collieries through the Masuku line. Livingstone links with Mulobezi, the
source of Mukwa Timber. Zambia Railways links the country with those in the
south at Victoria Falls Bridge; with the Democratic Republic of Congo at
Sakania Border and with Tanzania via TAZARA at new Kapiri Mposhi (see
map).
3.3.1  Management Structure
ZRL has a board of directors and the chief executive is the Managing
Director. The Managing Director is supported by 4 directors namely,
Director of Human Resources, Director of Technical Services, Director
of Finance; and Director of Traffic and Marketing. The directors are
supported by line managers, engineers, supervisors, superintendents,
etc.
The Safety and Environment Manager falls under the Directorate of
Human Resources. The Kabwe Central Workshops are headed by a
manager who reports to the Director of Technical Services. She is
supported by 3 engineers (Engineer, Motive Power; Engineer,
Production and Maintenance; and Engineer, Carriage and Wagons).
3.3.2  Freight Services and Rolling Stock
Zambia Railways has at its disposal various types of wagons and has
designed and continues to design various types of train services to
meet customer needs. ZRL has about 6000 wagons. Current optimum
usage is about 2500. 300 are scrap. The company also owns guard
vans, bull dozers, wheel carriers, rail wagons and passenger coaches.
(i)    General Purpose Wagons
Zambia Railways has a fleet of wagons suitable for both bulk and
packaged products. These wagons range from high and drop sided



8                                         Zambia Railwys Emvironmenral Assessment Studt
opens to bottom off loading hoppers and have the capacity to carry loads of between
39 and 52 metric tonnes.
(ii)   Covered wagons
These wagons are used for carrying packaged products such as sugar,
salt, flour, cement and rice.
(iii)  Containers
Products transported in containers include motor cars, machinery and
spare parts, cotton yarn, tea and electrical appliances. Zambia Railways
has a fleet of flat wagons for the transportation of products in
containers. Containers are usually used for the transportation of goods
across international borders.
(iv)  Tank Wagons
These are used for the conveyance of bulk liquids such as petrol,
aviation fuel, sulphuric acid and molasses
(v)   Livestock Wagons
These are used for the transportation of livestock such as cattle, goats,
sheep and horses
Some clients who deal in large volumes of traffic have acquired their
own rolling stock and constructed private sidings - that is, lines laid out
to serve a factory, industrial or agricultural concern under a special
agreement.
3.3.3  Key Statistics
Gauge                         1067mm
Route length                  1266Km
Number of interchange stations    03
Number of goods stations      20
Number of private sidings     205
Number of Marshalling Yards   06
3.3.4 Track Data
(a) Rails
(i)   Main Line
* 801b/yard between Bowwood and Victoria Falls Bridge
* 901b/yard or reconditioned 801b/yard between Bowwood and
mookamunga
* 911b/yard between Mookamunga and Ndola
(ii)   Branch Line



9                                          Zambia Railwmays Environmenial Assessment Sntdy
*                 601b/yard on LivingstonefMulobezi Line
* 80lb/yard on Choma- Masuku Line
* 801b/yard on all Copperbelt Branch Lines
(b) Sleepers
(i)    Main Line
* Prestressed concrete sleepers laid at 700mm spacing (1429
sleepers per Kin) for a distance of 132 km between Bowwood
and Mookamunga
* The rest is hardwood sleepers
(ii)   Branch Lines
* Mulobezi/Livingstone branch line distance of 163 Km is laid
on steel sleepers
* Choma-Masuku branchline on steel sleepers
= Copperbelt branch line on steel sleepers
(c) Stone Ballast
Rushed Granite, 40-50mm in size and applied as follows, in cubic
metres/km:
Straight Track    Curved Track
Steel              870                1000
Wooden             1400               1400
Concrete           1385               1530
(d) Turnouts
Mainline              1 in 12 and 1 in 9
Branch Lines          I in 9
Marshalling Yard       1 in 8
(e) Gradients
Main Line              1 in 80
Branch Lines           1 in 80
The main line upgrading now in progress involves replacement of
wooden sleepers with pre-stressed concrete sleepers, the reconditioning
of the 801b/yard rails and converting them into long-welded panels
between Simwani and Bowwood. There is also a re-sleepering
programme being undertaken between Mookamunga and Ndola
involving the replacement of wooden sleepers with concrete.
Replacement of 801b/yard rails on the main line and the 601b/yard rails
on branch lines with 901b/yard and 801b/yard respectively.
3.3.5 Signalling and Telecommunications



10                                          Zambia Railways Environmenial Assessment Snud)
The main line between Livingstone and Kitwe is controlled by means of a modem
microprocessor-based Centralised Trains Control(CTC) system from a
control centre in Kabwe.
3.3.6  Motive Power
The company owns 59 main line and 12 branch line/shunting diesel
electric locomotives of 2150 hp and 1650 hp rating respectively. It
hires and operates locomotives varying in number between 15 and 30.
Of the total number of locomotives about 45 are active.
3.3.7  Workshops
The central workshops at Kabwe are reasonably equipped with general
and specialist equipment for carrying out heavy repairs and overhauls
of rolling stocks. It also carries out wagon assembly works. Minor and
rnning repairs are done at line points.
4. ENVIRONMENTAL PROFILE OF ZAMBIA RAILWAYS - AUDIT
FINDINGS
4.1 Safety and Occupational Health Management at Zambia Railways
4.1.1  Safety and Occupational Health Policy
Zambia Railways Limited has a company policy for safety and health
at work.
Elements
Some of the elements of the policy are as follows:
*  It is company policy that all possible steps be taken to ensure the
health and safety of persons and to prevent damage to company
property
*  It is the duty of all employees to conform to company policy and
safety codes of practice and accept to carry out responsibilities
*  All employees with specific responsibility for health and safety
must ensure that they are adequately represented in their absence
* All employees who authorise work to be carried out at any time
must ensure that there are adequate health and safety arrangements
in place
* The Factories Act of 1985 is to be complied with at all times, but
this in itself is not enough. All employees should contribute
towards making the work areas as safe as possible. All work
methods should be periodically appraised to ensure that the safest
possible methods are adopted.



I I                                        Zambia Railways Environmental Assesswment Sntdy
The Board of Directors pledge to give full backing and support to
the policy
Objectives
"The safety policy shall guide and govern actions and judgement on
methods of procedure in railway operations with consideration for
economy, efficiency, reliability, legal and moral obligations and other
aspects of management commitments".
"Company policy requires that all reasonable measure be taken to
protect employees from accidents while on duty. This calls for a
continuing program to promote safety through the education of
employees in the importance of safe work habits, application of work
and operating rules and the elimination of hazardous conditions".
"It is also company policy to comply promptly with regulations and
directives of government or similar bodies having jurisdiction over
such matters.
Responsibilities
The policy bestows responsibility upon every employee to take all
reasonable measure to ensure personal safety, that of fellow
employees, passengers and the public whilst on Railway equipment,
right-of-way, work areas, premises, or other company property.
The key officers identified in the formulation and implementation of
the policy and the development of standards include the Chief
Executive (formulation), the Director of Human
Resources(implementation), the Director of Technical Services
(development of safety standards). Others are the Director of Finance,
the Director of Traffic and Marketing, the Company Secretary, the
Manager of Safety and Environment, Safety Inspectors, Heads of
Department, Assistant Heads/Station Managers, Supervisors and
workers generally.
It is indeed commendable that the organisation has a Manager - Safety
and Environment at the headquarters.
4.1.2  Zambia Railways Safety Rules
ZRL has a rule-based safety system.The rules capture the following
elements of safety:
* General Rules
* Office Safety
* Clothing and Footwear
* Personal Protective Equipment
* Fire Precautions
*  Housekeeping
* Tools and Equipment



12                                         Zambia Radiways Environmental Assessment Study
Working on or about Tracks
* Working on Signalling Equipment
* Getting on or off Locomotives and Wagons
* Working on or around Locomotives, Wagons or Trains
* Operating Handbrakes
* Operating Track Points
* Working on Locomotives
* Working on Wagons
* Handling and Storage of materials
* Lifting Equipment, Forklifter, Wheel-Barrow, Mobile Crane,
Goods, etc
* Express Sheds, Stores, etc
* Garages
* Customer and Catering Services
* Working on or about Machines
G Grinding Wheels
- Electrical Circuits, Equipment, etc
- Cutting and Welding Equipment
G Gases, Acids, Explosives, Molten Metals, etc
- Manhole, Well, Trench, Sewer, Tumtable Pit or Excavations
- Ladders, Platforms or Scaffords
* Cranes, Derricks, Hoists
* Handling Lifting Equipment, etc
* Poles
* Jacks
* Pipelines
* Mechanical refrigeration and airconditioning systems
4.1.3  Other Safety-Related Documents
These include the following:
* Train Accident Investigation Guide
* Operating Rules
* Operating Rules Appendix
* Accident Prevention and General Safety Practice
* Maintenance Instructions for Permanent Way
4.1.4  Non-ZRL Documents
One notable document that is reportedly used as a guide is the SADC
Hazardous Material Handbook on the conveyance, handling, storage,
and safe working with hazardous material.
Southem African Development Conimunity(SADC) member Railways
are encouraged to utilise the handbook to ensure the competence of all
employees throughout Southem Africa.The handbook is for use by all
personnel involved in acceptance, handling, loading, unloading,
storage and conveyance of hazardous materials from one country to or
through another country.



13                                          Zambia Railways Environmenal Assessment Study
The document classifies hazardous commodities into 9 classes
(including labelling codes) as follows:
Class 1 - Explosives
Class 2 - Gases: compressed, liquified or dissolved under pressure
Class 3 - Flammable Liquids
Class 4 - Flammable Solids
Class 5 - Oxidising Substances and Organic Peroxides
Class 6 - Poisonous (toxic) or Infectious Substances
Class 7 - Radioactive Materials
Class 8 - Corrosives
Class 9 - Miscellaneous Dangerous Substances
The document also specifies matters related to conditions of
acceptance,packaging, labelling, precautions, marking, conveyance by
passenger or mixed train; damaged packages, etc. The guidelines are in
line with the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code as
produced by IMO and accepted by the UN.
4.1.5  Observations
The above arrangements notwithstanding, there is still room in
occupational health and safety arrangements. It is recommended that
site specific safety and occupational health plans be developed to
address issues such as:
(a) Rapid safety shut down
(b) Area evacuation
(c) Plant evacuation
(d) Sabotage/Civil Disobedience
(e) Materials Handling
(f) Abnormal emissions
(g) Fire
(h) Operational Failure/Error
(i) Abnormal Occurrences
(j) Emergency Exercises
(h) Site-specific medical surveillance program
Protective equipment and clothing is not satisfactorily provided
particularly in as far as it relates to jobbing side effects such as fumes,
sands, boiler operations, welding, gas inhalation, fine metal dusts,
noise, etc. These need to be systematically attended to



14                                         Zambia Railway5 Environmental Assessment Study
4.1.6       Safety and Occupational Health Checklist
ELEMENT                               COMMENT
1. Policy
V  Has top management defined the     Yes, but commitment and appropriateness
organisation 's safety policy?     could be improved
Appropriateness? Commitment?
2. Planning
v  Is there a procedure established and    The procedure could be improved
maintained to identify the most
significant of the organisation 's.safety
aspects?
v Has a procedure been established to    A procedure exists but needs improving
have access to legal and other     and updating
requirements to which the organisation
subscribes that are directly applicable
to safety impacts?
V  Have objectives and targets been   Partially at some functions and levels but
established at each relevant function    not all
and level within the organisation?
Is there a safety and occupational  Partially established
health management program for
achieving objectives and targets?
3. Implementation and Operation
V Are roles, responsibilities, and    Yes, partially
authorities defined, documented and
communicated? Are resources essential
for implementation of a safety policy
andprogram provided?
V Have training needs been identified and  Partially; in need of improvement
have appropriate personnel received
the necessary training? Safety
Awareness?
V Are procedures established and      Procedures need significant improvement
maintainedfor internal and external
communication about significant safety
aspects
V Are warning signs and notices



15                                          Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Stua4v
ELEMENT                                COMMENT
appropriately and strategically     There is need for updating and improving
displayed?
Are procedures for controlling all  Not always
documents established, maintained and
readily available?
Have operations that are associated  Partially
with significant safety impacts been
identified?
V Are procedures that identify the     There is need for improvement and
potentialfor and the response to    updating
accidents and emergency situations
established and maintained?
4. Checking and Corrective Action
v Are procedures established and       Procedures could be improved
maintained to monitor and record on a
regular basis the key characteristics of
the operations and activities that have
a significant impact on safety?
/  Are procedures established and      Yes, procedures are established but they
maintainedfor handling and          could be improved
investigating nonconformance andfor
initiating corrective and preventive
action?
v  Are procedures established and
maintainedfor the identification and
maintenance of safety records?      Yes, partially
V  Are programs andprocedures
established and maintainedfor periodic
safety audits?                      Programs and procedures are unsatisfactory
5. Management Review
V  Does top management review the safety
management system to ensure
continuing suitability, adequacy and  Sometimes, but not on a regular basis
effectiveness?



16                                         Zambia Railiuys Environmental Assessment Stud)'
4.2 Environmental Management at Zambia Railways
4.2.1  General
ZRL has not established an environmental management system that
meets the requirements of ISO 14001 or similar standard. There is,
however, growing interest at ZRL to formulate an environmental
policy. It is envisaged to use a staged bottom-up approach. Until about
two years ago, the Safety Department then, was largely concerned with
safety matters only. The position of Manager, Safety was renamed
Manager, Safety and Environment only about a year ago. The
environment agenda is therefore relatively new at ZRL.
4.2.2  Environmental Policy
ZRL has not yet defined the organisation's environmental policy.
Consequently the nature, scale and environmental impacts of ZRL's
activities, products and services are not documented. In the absence of
an environmental policy, commitment to continual improvement; and
compliance with applicable environmental legislation and regulations
are not guaranteed. Furthermore there is no framework for setting and
reviewing enviromnental objectives and targets. A further consequence
is that an undocumented environmental policy can not be
communicated to the employees and the public - further complicating
the scenario.
4.2.3  Environmental Planning
Environmental Aspects
There is no procedure established and maintained to identify the
organisation's environmental aspects in order to determine which
aspects have significant impacts on the environment.
Legal and other Requirements
There is no procedure established to identify and have access to legal
requirements and other requirements to which the organisation
subscribes that are directly applicable to environmental impacts.
ZRL is not in possession of any environment-related permits. The
regulatory permnits in place are safety-related. In addition, permits
regarding fuel tanks are in place. Storage of fuel is guided by the
Petroleum Act. Storage tanks are, by arrangement, however, the
responsibility of Petroleum Companies(e.g. BP).
The last time the Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ) visited ZRL
was about 2 years ago. No concerns have been officially raised to date



17                                         Zambia Railws%Ws Environmental Assessment Stud5
by ECZ regarding compliance. Furthermore, management is not aware of the sort of
environmental regulatory permits that are required.
Objectives and Targets
Objectives and targets have not been established at each relevant
function and level within the organisation.
Environmental Management Programs
ZRL has no established environmental management program for
achieving environmental objectives and targets.
4.2.4  Implementation and Operation
Structure and Responsibility
Roles, responsibility and authorities are not adequately defined,
documented or communicated. Consequently resources are not
systematically provided.
Management has appointed a Manager, Safety and Environment with
roles, responsibilities and authority yet to be fully defined vis-a-vis the
implementation and maintenance of an environmental management
system.
The Safety and Environment Inspector stationed at the workshops has
the following roles:
(a) identifying areas of environmental concem
(b) highlighting hazards
(c) attending to and reporting all accidents giving possible causes
(d) conducting safety inspections
(e) ensuring availability of fire equipment and personnel
(f) servicing of first aid facility
(g) ensuring that safety posters are in place, updating accident records,
etc
He has had some training in safety, first aid, fire prevention, etc. There is
however a serious need to retrain him so that he may fully cope with his
expanded responsibilities particularly with regard to the environment.
Management also needs to accord more recognition and avail more
resources to environment and safety activities. The same applies to other
safety and environment inspectors.
Training, Awareness and Competence
Training needs have not been identified and appropriate personnel
have not been identified. Furthermore, procedures are not in place to



18                                          Zambia Railwaoys Environmental Assessment Stud)
make employees aware of the importance of conformance with environmental
requirements and their specific responsibilities.
Generally speaking, environmental matters are not high on the
company's list of priorities partly due to the financial problems the
company is going through. More important though is the fact that
environmnental awareness is low. Almost all key personnel at the
Central Workshops have not had any formal environmental training.
Perhaps this is understandable since the environmental dimension of
operations is relatively new at ZRL. Staff are unclear about their
roles/responsiblities regarding the environment.
They, nonetheless, show some notable concern and interest in
environmental matters. Environmental matters, reportedly, do feature
in management meetings but are not standing agenda items. Safety
issues on the other hand, tend to be better understood and appreciated.
Communication
Procedures are not established and maintained for both internal and
external communication about significant environmental aspects of
environmental management.
Document Control
Procedures for controlling documents are not established, maintained
or readily available. Consequently, current versions of relevant
documents are not available in proper locations for effective use.
Operational Control
Operations and activities that are associated with significant
environmental impacts have not been formally identified. For example,
the following (intemal) regulations are not in place:
(a) Hazardous waste regulations(only broad SADC guidelines exist)
(b) Regulations related to storage tanks
(c) Solid waste regulations
(d) Scheduled environmental inspection plans
(e) Formal hazardous material inventory
Emergency Preparedness and Response
Procedures that identify the potential for and the response to accidents
and emergency situations(e.g. tank wagon accident spills) are not
established and maintained. Consequently there are no procedures
that specifically address the prevention and mitigation of
environmental impacts that may be associated with accidents or
emergency situations. Spill prevention control and counter measure
plans are non-existent.



19                                        Zambia Railways Emironmental Assessment Snidd'
4.2.5   Checking and Corrective Action
Monitoring and Measurement
There are no procedures established and maintained to monitor and
measure on a regular basis the key characteristics of the operations and
activities that can have a significant impact on the environment.
Consequently compliance with relevant environmental legislation and
regulations can not be periodically evaluated. For example, the quality
of groundwater (including the on-site borehole) and wastewater
effluent from the sewage treatment plant are not regularly monitored.
Similarly air quality is not monitored. The capacity to analyze those
two aspects can quite easily be incorporated in the existing
metallurgical laboratory.
Non-conformance and Corrective and Preventive Action
Procedures are not established and maintained for handling and
investigating nonconformance, for taking action to mitigate the
impacts caused by non-conformance and for initiating corrective and
preventive actions.
Records
Procedures are not established and maintained for identification,
maintenance and disposition of environmental records (training
records, records of audit results, management reviews, etc)
Environmental Audits
-There are no programs and procedures established for periedic
environmental audits.
4.2.6  Management Review
ZRL has no Environmental Management System(EMS), consequently
top management does not periodically and systematically review
environmental management to ensure continuing suitability, adequacy
and effectiveness. Environmental matters are currently reviewed on an
adhoc basis.



20                                          Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Stud,
4.3   Physical Environmental Status
4.3.1  Hazardous Waste
The major hazardous waste generation points at ZRL Kabwe Central
Workshops include the following:
(a) The Carriage and Wagon Workshops
(b) The Motive Power Workshops
(c) The Production and Plant Maintenance Workshops
(d) The Loco Shed Annex Workshop
The above workshops also house the following activities:
Carpentry, millright, painting and refurbishing, foundry and smithy
and air-conditioning/refrigeration; machine and components sections
The layout of the workshops is as appended to the report. The Central
Workshops facility occupies an area of 22.8 Hectares. IThe total
workshop manpower stands at 307. The workshops started operations
in 1971. The site was previously used as farmland. Other noteworthy
facilities at the site include a metallurgical laboratory and a sewage
treatment plant.
There is also a borehole on-site connected to a water tank.
Responsibility for safety and environment matters on site is delegated
to the Safety and Environment Inspector.
The main hazardous wastes/materials at the facility fall into the
following major categories:
(a) Inorganic aqueous wastes (e.g. spent caustic baths from metal
finishing/washings, rinse waters, etc)
(b) Oils and oily residues (used lubricating oils, used hydraulic oils,
used cutting oils, contaminated fuel oils)
(c) Inorganic sludges/solids (sludges, dusts, solids and other non-
liquid waste containing hazardous substances including dust from
fabricated metal operations, waste sand from coking operations,
furnace heavy metal slag, lime sludge from coking operations, etc)
(d) Organic sludges/solids (sludges from painting operations, soil
contaminated with spilled solvent, paint residues/fumes, etc)
(e) Liquid/compressed gases
Copper concentrate droppings at Kitwe and other Copperbelt stations
need special mention. ZRL transports copper concentrate from the
mines. The concentrates are loaded onto unsealed train wagons while
still wet. Consequently the various stations and railway lines on the
Copperbelt are littered with copper concentrate droppings - leading to
copper concentrate dust and corrosion of the rails. The ballast is also
rendered ineffective and the state and integrity of the railway system
are severely affected. The other consequence is possible groundwater
pollution since the droppings are washed down by the rains during the
rainy season.



21                                           Zambia Railways EnvironmentalAssessment Stud)
The copper concentrate problem, therefore, has environmental, occupational health
and safety dimensions. The problem should be attended to urgently.
4.3.2  Solid Waste
Solid waste collection and disposal is understood to be the
responsibility of the local authority(municipal council). However, the
Engineer, Production and Maintenance has the responsibility to ensure
that solid waste disposal is attended to. Some incineration takes place
on site and the scrap metal is periodically shoved around and re-piled
in order to bring some order to the facility. Generally speaking then,
the arrangements for solid waste collection and disposal are haphazard.
Solid waste regulations are not followed and indeed some solid wastes
are transported out of the workshop premises without permits.
The major solid waste categories at the central workshops include
scrap metal, fumace slag, machine shop swarf, saw dust, pot liner
waste and waste coke.
The total quantity of undisposed of slag, machine shop swarf, sawdust,
potliner waste and waste coke at the time of the audit was in the order
of 100 - 200 Kg. Some of the sawdust is used for soaking the spillage
oils, some is burnt and the remainder is collected by the Kabwe
Municipal Council for disposal at their landfill site. The machine shop
swarf is disposed of along with scrap metals. The potliner waste, waste
coke and furnace slag are dumped at designated waste disposal
locations within the workshop yard and levelled out from time to time.
Out of the above categories of solid waste, by far the greatest quantity
is that of scrap metal which is strewn all over the premises. It is
estimated that the total quantity of scrap metal - locomotive and
wagon remains, wheels, rails, etc is in the order of 150 - 200 metric
tonnes. Currently, ZRL has standing arrangements with a scrap metal
company - Scaw Limited. At the time of audit, it was understood that
the scrap metal had already been bought by Scaw and was simply
awaiting collection.
4.3.3  Storage Facilities
ZRL handles huge quantities of fuel. It is estimated that over a 6 month
period, as much as 1000 000 litres of diesel are used.
Fuel is stored at several ZRL stations and workshops. The estimated
storage capacities are as follows:
(a) Central Workshops - 32 000 litres(Diesel + Used Oil)[4 tanks, 2
unbunded]
(b) Livingstone     - 12 7001itres(Diesel + Petrol)[2 tanks,
bunded]
(c) Choma          -  18 200 litres (Petrol)[2 tanks, bunded]



22                                           Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Study
(d)             Monze               18 200 litres (Diesel +Petrol)[2 tanks,
bunded]
(e) Kafue             347 500 litres(Diesel+Petrol)[2 tanks,
bunded]
(f) Lusaka              76 910 litres(Diesel +Petrol)[2 tanks,
bunded]
(g) Kabwe Station      45 100 litres(Diesel + Petrol)[2 tanks,
bunded]
(h) Ndola              40 000 litres(Diesel+Petrol)[2 tanks,
bunded]
(i) Kitwe               32 000 litres(Diesel+Petrol)[2 tanks,
bunded]
Storage tanks are a mixture of above ground and underground tanks.
Underground storage tanks are mainly for motor vehicle refuelling
points at Ndola, Kabwe, Lusaka, Kafue, Choma and Livingstone.
Permits exist for petroleum storage tanks although the responsiblity for
the integrity and safety of the tanks lies with the petroleum companies
themselves. There have been incidents of leaking pipes connected to
the tanks. At the time of audit, no leakages were detected. The
quantities of fuel lost during past leakages and the frequence of
leakages could not be established due to a dearth of systematic records.
Two of the tanks at Central Workshops do not have bund walls. This is
unsatisfactory and should be attended to at once. There is also need to
put in place an internal self inspection program for storage facilities to
supplement whatever arrangements are in place with the petroleum and
gas companies.
Some gas is also stored at the Kabwe Central Workshops - mainly
oxygen and LPG. Again the responsibility for the integrity of the tanks
lies with the gas companies themselves.
Used oil is also stored on site and arrangements were once in place to
resale it to the suppliers. Stored quantities are in the order of 20 000 to
30 000 litres at any one time.
The storage areas are not all properly identified by well placed
posters.
Another concern is the fact that no environmental impact assessments
were conducted prior to installation of fuel and lubricant storage tanks.
4.3.4  Waste Discharges and Disposal
Liquid waste discharges mainly consist of oil-water/oil washing
mixtures. Small percentages of acid and caustic soda also find their
way into the drains. The oily discharges are discharged into the drains
and subsequently into the environment adjoining the workshops. There
has been no formal concern by the local authority or the water board to



23                                         Zambia Railways Emvironmental Assessment Sa4y
date. This is a major concern and needs to be attended to at once. The practice is in
violation of existing legal provisions governing the protection of the
environment and in particular the discharge of effluent regulations
(Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act and the Local
Government Act).
4.3.5  Waste Treatment and Disposal
A simple Aerator+ Sedimentation Tank arrangement exists on site. The
treated effluent is discharged into the workshops drainage systemnand
finds its way to the same discharge point as the oily discharges.
The effluent quality is not regularly monitored.
4.3.6  Health and Safety-Related Status
Workshop safety is guided by the Factories Act. The Abstract of the
Act is posted in most of the workshops. Inspectors from government
reportedly visit the workshops and certification of equipment is done
by government.
Levels of air pollution are unknown since there is no monitoring
program.
The potential health hazards at the facility include paint fumes in the
paint shop particularly now that the paint booth fume extractor is non-
functional. The facility uses about 500 litres of paint per week. The
facility also produces significant amounts of fine metal dusts and
noise. Jobbing side effects are also major concerns namely, fires,
sands, fumes, boiler-related activities, welding, gases, etc. Hazards
associated with specialised equipment such as pneumatic hammers,
foundries, lathes, etc also need mention.
Notable also in the handling and conveyancing of goods are the copper
concentrate droppings and the mine-related environmental pollution on
the Copperbelt. ZRL is involved in the transportation of Zambia's
mined copper and other minerals.
It was noted that safety attire and accessories are not very satisfactorily
provided at the moment - perhaps due to financial constraints.
4.3.7  Miscellaneous Environmentally Significant Attributes
There is a metallurgical laboratory on the workshop premises that can
quite easily be made to cater for water, waste water and air quality
monitoring. At the moment the laboratory is used for quality control of
raw materials for the foundry.



24                                         Zambia Railways EnviroEmental Assessmeni Satdy
The central workshops handle a significant number of locomotive
batteries and some locomotive battery charging takes place in the
workshops.
Oxygen and propane gases are extensively used.
The company has a track weed control program that reportedly uses
proprietary approved chemical. The environmental impact of the use of
these chemicals are unknown.
Coolant and sawdust are also extensively strewn in some of the
workshops highlighting the need for good house keeping and cleaner
production.
Equipment and machinery is in neglected states in some of the
workshops perhaps due to obsoleteness. An equipment audit is
recommnended.
The company also uses a lot of wood. Most of the sleepers are wooden.
Although there is an on-going re-sleepering program that aims to
replace wooden sleepers with concrete ones, it would appear that given
the current financial situation of the company, wooden sleepers will
remain more cost effective for some time to come. The environmental
impact of the company's use of wooden sleepers as it relates to de-
forestation should be investigated.
4.3.8  Goods Transported on ZR and their environmental Impacts
The categories of major goods carried in bulk on Zambia Railways
include the following:
* Cement
* Pyrites
* Nitric and Sulphuric Acids
* Nitrates
* Fertilisers
* Scrap Metal
* Containers
* Maize
* Edible Oils
* Petroleum Products
* Copper and other Minerals
* Livestock
* Lime
The major environmental hazard is associated with accidents and
leakages involving acid and petroleum products tanks. A spill response
and counter measure are not in place. In the case of acid transported for



25                                         Zambia Railways Environmental Assessmenl Study
the mining companies, for example, ZRL relies on the mining companies for
leakage/spill response expertise. This should be reviewed. Another
concern is associated with the transportation of copper concentrates on
the Copperbelt. The copper concentrate droppings pose safety,
environmental and occupational health risks which need to be tackled
in conjunction with the mining companies. It is recommended that the
mining companies be persuaded to resume using sealed wagons for
transporting copper concentrates. A clean up program for contaminated
sites should also be introduced:
4.3.9  Illegal Products Transported on ZR and their Environmental Impacts
To date, illegal products have not been a significant problem in the
operations of ZRL.
5 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY CONCERNS/LIABILITY ISSUES
AND IMPROVEMENT PROPOSALS
5.1 Major Concems
The previous land use of the site of the current Kabwe Central Workshops was crop
farming. There are no visible signs of degradation of this relatively environmentally
friendly past use. Consequently the concerns discussed below largely apply to both
the past and on-going use of the site as workshop premises. The concerns apply to all
ZRL workshops and stations.
CONCERNS                 IMPROVEMENT               PRIORITY
PROPOSALS
1. Lack of an            ZRL top management needs  HIGH
environmental         to commit itself to
policy and an         developing and
environmental         implementing an
management system     Environmental
Management System
(EMS), carry out an initial
environmental review and
develop a policy. The
policy must be relevant to
the nature, scale and
environmental impacts of
the organisation's activities,
products and services.
ZRL has committed itself to
evolving a policy and
introducing an an EMS
during the course of the
year 2000 through a series
of meetings and dialogues



26                                         Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Study
CONCERNS                 IMPROVEMENT              PRIORITY
PROPOSALS
with the various
departments. The effort is to
be coordinated by the
Manager, Environment and
Safety. A detailed
programme is still being
developed.
*  Environmental Planning  ZRL will then need to
develop a detailed plan
Objectives and targets  incorporating, for example,
organisation and personnel;
Environmental         register of environmental
management programs   legislation and regulations;
evaluation of effects;
objectives and targets, etc.
The above should feed into
a management program
*  Implementation and    The EMS will need to be
Operation            integrated into the
company's operations. In
Roles and responsibilities   this regard, the following
will need to be attended to:
* Distribution of
environmental
responsibility
throughout the
organisation, through
the management team
and employees
* Provision of regular
feedback to
management and
employees of the
organisation's
conformance to the
EMS
* Consider ways to
broaden traditional roles
to include
environmental
management
Training, awareness   There will be need to create
and competence        awareness and provide
training in environmental



27                                         Zambia Railwpays Environmental Assessment Sntuv
CONCERNS                 IMPROVEMENT               PRIORITY
PROPOSALS
matters. The training
required is therefore of two
types:
* General awareness
* Training for competence
Environmental         *  Maintaining internal
communication            communication between
various functions and
levels of the
organisation
* Receiving, documenting
and responding to
relevant communication
from external interested
parties regarding
environmental aspects
and the EMS
Documentation and     *  Simply, "Say what you
Document control         do and do what you
say"l
Operational control   * Establish and maintain
documented procedures
to cover situations
where their absence
could lead to deviation
from environmental
policy, and the
objectives and targets
* Stipulate operation
criteria and procedures
* Establish and maintain
procedures related to
significant
environmental aspects
of goods and services
Emergency             ZRL will need to plan for
preparedness          emergency environmental
response, perhaps model
potential releases and
document the most effective
release mitigation
techniques for its
operations, particularly the



28                                         Zambia Railways Environmental Assessnent Shtdy
CONCERNS                 IMPROVEMENT               PRIORITY
_________________  PROPOSALS
transportation of goods such
as acids, petroleum products
and hazardous wastes in
general.
Checking and       The elements to be
Corrective Action    considered include:
* Procedures to monitor
Records                 and measure on a
regular basis key
Monitoring,             characteristics of
measurement and           operations and activities
corrective action        that can have a
significant impact on
Environmental audits        the environment;
tracking performance,
calibration of equipment
and periodic evaluation
of compliance.
* It is also important to
establish and maintain
procedures for handling,
investigating and
initiating corrective and
preventive action for
nonconformance,
maintain environmental
records and carry out
regular environmental
audits.
Management Review     Management reviews will
need to be performed at
regular intervals in order to
ensure that the EMS is
suitable, adequate and
effective.
2. Hazardous Waste       ZRL should introduce      HIGH
Management            cleaner production
practices aimed at:
Poor handling at



29                                           Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Studdy
CONCERNS                  IMPROVEMENT                PRIORITY
PROPOSALS
source(house keeping,    Waste minimisation, good
waste minimisation,    house keeping and waste
cleaner production, etc)  segregation, where
possible.
Consideration should also
be given to the 3 Rs-
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle
Poor disposal practices
for:                    There is need to install oil
*  Inorganic aqueous   separator(s) in order to
wastes             reduce the amounts of oily
*  Oils and oily       wastes freely discharged to
residues(used      the environment
lubricating oils,
hydraulic oils,
cutting oils,       There is also need to repair
contaminatedfuel   the paint fume extractor
oils)
*  Inorganic           There is dire need to
sludges/solids(sludg  provide task-related
es, dusts, solids and  appropriate protective.
other non-liquid    clothing and accessories in
waste containing    the various workplaces
hazardous
substances including
dust from fabricated
metal operations,
waste sandfrom
coking operations,
lime sludgesfrom
coking operations,
etc)
*  Organic
sludges/solids
(sludges from
painting operations,
soil contaminated
with spilled solvent,
paint
residues/fumes, etc)
3. Solid Waste
Adhoc collection and
disposal arrangements   A more organised solid    MEDIUM
waste management system



30                                           Zambia Railways Environmenmal Assessment Sntdy
CONCERNS                  IMPROVEMENT                PRIORITY
PROPOSALS
for solid waste        should be put in place -
perhaps with the
Uncontrolled burning of cooperation of the
wastes at the central  Environmental Council of
workshops              Zambia and ihe Kabwe
Municipal Council
Huge quantities of scrap
metal strewn all over    Proper procedures and sites
the workshop premises   must be declaredfor
burning wastes in line with
legal requirements
More ordering and sorting
of scrap metal is
recommended Final
disposal arrangements also
need to be worked out
The Safety and Environment LOW
4. Storage Facilities(gases  Inspector at the Kabwe
and petroleum products)  Central workshops needs to
be trained in the basics of
Lack ofaformalised     inspections related to the
internal inspection   integrity and safety of tanks
system for integrity and  in order to enhance his role.
safety of tanks        Other staff will need
awareness training
Leaking pipes have been
reported in the past but  Discussions need to be
the incidents have not    entered into with the oil
been properly          companies on the currency
documented             and environmental
friendliness of their storage
Unbunded tanks are a    tank technologies as they
source of concern      relate to facilities at ZRL
Well placed posters    Posters identifying the
identifying stored tank   contents of storage tanks
contents lacking       should be appropriately
placed
As under, "Hazardous      HIGH
5. Waste Discharges and    Waste"
Disposal
Lack of systematic



31                                           Zambia Railvays Environmental Assessment Szzidy
CONCERNS                  IMPROVEMENT                PRIORITY
PROPOSALS
control and segregation
of wastes at source
Uncontrolled draining
of admixtures of waste
into ordinary drains
Inorganic aqueous
wastes, oils and oily
residues are allfreely
discharged into
unauthorised areas
potentially polluting
surface waters,
groundwaters and the
environment generally
The performance of the    MEDIUM
6. Waste Treatment and    treatment plant must be
Disposal               regularly monitored
The wastewater         The effluent quality should
treatment plant        be periodically determined
discharges its effluent    and recorded
into the ordinary
drainage system of the    The wastewater treatment
premises. The effluent is  plant effluent must be
mixed with drainage    discharged separately from
waters(aqueous wastes,  the other liquid wastes - the
oils and oily residues)   effluent must ideally be
and is ultimately      discharged into the council
dischargedfreely into    sewer system
the environment
The performance of the
treatment plant is not
monitored regularly.
The same applies to the
quality of the treated
effluent.
7. Safety and Occupational                           MEDIUM
Health
Levels of air pollution    Air pollution monitoring
are unknown since there should be introduced
is no monitoring
program
_  Site-specific environment,



32                                          Zambia Raili*ys Environmental Assessment Study
CONCERNS                  IMPROVEMENT               PRIORITY
PROPOSALS
Inadequate site specific  health and safety plans
environment, health and  should be developed as well
safety plans - including a    as site-specific medical
site specific medical     surveillance programs
surveillance program.
Potential health hazards
include:
*  Paint fumes
*  Fine metal dusts
*  Noise
*  Vibrating equipment
*  Hazards associated
with handling and
conveyancing of
copper concentrates
on the Copperbelt
Other safety gaps include:
*  Inadequate, appropriate  Appropriate safety attire
safety attire and     should be provided to staff
accessories
*  Slippery, oilyfloors    'The workshopfloors should
*  Lack of regular safety   be kept free of oils
trainingfor all       Safety training -
- competence and awareness-
pInadequarnie stratgicaly  should be provided to all
placed warning signs,   employees
posters
Management should put in
*  Inadequate            place procedures to
arrangements for      regularly review safety
management review     arrangements
The profile of the safety and
*  Inadequate recognition   environment officer should
of role of safety     be recast and enhanced
inspector
LOW
8. Miscellaneous



33                                         Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Study
CONCERNS                 IMPROVEMENT               PRIORITY
PROPOSALS
Formal procedures and
Procedures/regulations  regulations must be
for handling and      developed
charging locomotive
batteries
Borehole water quality
Lack of regular and   should be regularly
sustained monitoring of  monitored- perhaps by
borehole water supply   incorporating a
water/wastewater aspect to
the operations of the
metallurgical laboratory
The environmental impact
of the track weed control
Track weed control       program should be
program                  investigated
A sense of orderliness and
simple environmental
Coolant, sawdust and    cleanliness should be
other miscellaneous   inculcated into staff
wastes
An equipment audit would
help in determining
State of equipment and   working/useful and obsolete
machinery             equipment
Environmental
implications of use of
wooden sleepers by
company
9. Transported Goods     In collaboration with     HIGH
relevant national agencies,
Inadequate formalised   an emergency preparedness
and updated emergency  and response plan must be
preparedness and      developed
response plan
* Petroleum products
and acids spill
response and
counter measure    In collaboration with the
plan               mining companies, ZRL



34                                         Zambia Railways Environmenial Assessment Stud
CONCERNS                 IMPROVEMENT               PRIORITY
PROPOSALS
*  Copper concentrates must ensure that the copper
and similar products concentrates are loaded in
sealed wagons and that the
contaminated sites are
cleaned up.
* Other hazardous
materials
5.2 Major Liability Issues
CONCERN                  LIABILITY                IMPROVEMENT
PROPOSAL
I. Operations without    Liable for prosecution    ZRL management to apply
environmental permits   under the Environmental    for relevant permits and
or licenses on air, water, Protection and Pollution  licenses
waste and toxic       Control Act (EPPCA)
substances
2. Lack of monitoring of   Liable for prosecution and   ZR should consider
environmental         remediation costs under the  upgrading its metallurgical
pollutants released at    "polluter pays principle" of  laboratory to cater for basic
various facilities    EPPCA                     environmental monitoring
3. Disposal of admixtures   Liable for prosecution and   ZRL should improve on
of waste oil, acids,  damages( environment,     house keeping, waste
caustic soda, etc into an  water resources); clean-up   minimisation, segregation
unauthorised area and    costs                  of wastes, pretreatment, etc
without pretreatment
4. Lack of an            Potential liability for   ZRL should develop an
environmental         prosecution resulting from    environmental emergency
preparedness and      contingent environmental   and preparedness plan
response plan         damage
5. Environmental,        Liable for prosecution and   ZRL must, in collaboration
occupational health and  remediation costs associated  with ZCCM immediately
safety liabilities arising   with environment, safety    ensure that wagons carrying
out of the unmitigated    and occupational health  copper concentrates are



35                                          Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Suady
effects of copper                               sealed and that
concentrate droppings                           contaminated sites are
on the Copperbelt                               cleaned up
5.3 Environmental Impact Assessments for Future Rehabilitation Works
Under the Environmental Protection and Pollution Control (Environmental Impact
Assessment) Regulations, 1997, a developer shall not implement a project for which
a project brief or an environmental impact assessment is required unless the the
project brief or environmental impact assessment has been concluded in accordance
with the regulations and a decision letter has been issued by the Environmental
Council of Zambia. This requirement also applies to significant
alterations/rehabilitations.
6. CAPACITY OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL COUNCIL OF ZAMBIA (ECZ)
AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (GRZ) TO
MONITOR CONTINGENT ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGES
The Environmental Council of Zamnbia (ECZ) and its inspectorates are still very much
in their infancy. The Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act (EPPCA)
was passed by Parliament in 1990. Setting up the ECZ took some years after that and
the putting in place of regulations is still in progress. The ECZ.is expected to perform
advisory, coordinating and regulatory functions on environmental matters in Zambia.
The inspectorates under ECZ have powers to enforce the provisions of the Act and
any other regulations under the Act. Furthermore, the EPPCA has provision for the
delegation of the enforcement of specific regulations or guidelines to local authorities.
The subsidiary regulations currently in place are as follows:
* Pesticides and Toxic Substances Regulations(1994)
* Water Pollution Control (Effluent and Wastewater) Regulations (1993)
* Waste Management (Transporters and Waste Disposal Site) (1993)
* Air pollution Control (Licensing and Emission Standards) Regulations (1996)
* Environmental Protection and Pollution Control (Environmental Impact
Assessment) Regulations (1997)
Other regulations including those dealing specifically with hazardous waste are still
under development. Solid waste collection and disposal is currently the responsibility
of local authorities.
There are currently no established environmental monitoring programs even for non-
contingent environmental damages. There are, in effect, no systems in place for
systematic and continuous data generation and recording. It should be noted however,
that from time to time, the ECZ publishes "State of the Environment" reports which
outline environmental trends and conditions in the country. The reports tend to be
very general in nature and their usefulness in monitoring contingent environmental
damages is negligible. It must be noted, nonetheless, that several capacity building
projects/programs under both the ECZ and the Ministry of Enviromnent and Natural
Resources are being implemented with the aid of donor agencies.



36                                          Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Stud)'
In the current scheme of things therefore, it can be safely argued that there is no
reliable capacity to monitor contingent environmnental damages on the part of the
Environmental Council of Zambia or indeed the Government of the Republic of
Zambia (GRZ). Efforts are, however, underway to develop that capacity.
7. CONCLUSIONS
The existing environmental (including safety and occupational health) conditions,
practices and potential liabilities of Zambia Railways Limited were evaluated against
national and international standards. The evaluation took full cognisance of the fact
that environmental policies, legislation, institutions and debate are still in their
infancy in Zambia. The following are the major conclusions:
*  ZRL has a fairly elaborate company policy(with associated rules and procedures)
for safety and health at work. The company, however, has no site specific safety
and occupational health plans. Furthermore, adequate and appropriate protective
equipment, clothing and accessories are in short supply. Safety and occupational
health training is not regularly availed to all employees.
*  ZRL has neither an environmental policy nor an environmental management
system. There is, however, growing interest at ZRL to formulate an environmental
policy. It is commendable to note that ZRL has a safety and environment
department headed by a manager. The environment function was added to the
department just over a year ago. The environment agenda is therefore relatively
new at ZRL.
*  ZRL is an enterprise in serious need of both technical and managerial know-how
in order to improve environmental management and performance. There is
inadequate environmental knowledge and skills generally. There is also inafequate
knowledge of relevant pieces of legislation and regulations; and compliance
requirements. ZRL does not have any environmental permits obtainable under the
Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act. Environmental checking and
corrective actions are also non-existent.
*  Significant amounts of hazardous wastes are generated by ZRL. These include
fuel and lubricant oil wastes/admixtures, furnace heavy metal slug and
wastewaters entrained with caustic soda. The handling and disposal of hazardous
materials does not conform to cleaner production practices.
*  The arrangements for solid waste collection and disposal are haphazard. The
major solid waste categories include scrap metal, furnace slag, machine shop
swarf, saw dust and waste coke.
*  ZRL handles huge quantities of petroleum fuel and lubricant oils. Storage tanks
are a mixture of above ground and underground tanks. Permits exist for storage
tanks although the responsibility for the integrity and safety of the tanks lies with
the petroleum and gas companies themselves. There is no formal self inspection
program for storage facilities and the storage areas are not always properly
identified by posters.
*  Liquid waste discharges mainly consist of oil-water/oil-washings admixtures.
Small percentages of acid and caustic soda also find their way into drains. The
oily discharges are freely discharged into unauthorised areas adjacent to the
workshops. The situation is very unsatisfactory.



37                                          Zambia Railvays Environmental Assessment Study
* There is a serious environmental, occupational health and safety problem
associated with copper concentrate droppings at Kitwe, other Copperbelt towns
and on the Copperbelt lines generally. The copper concentrate droppings dust is
an occupational health hazard particularly for shunting staff. Furthermore, the
droppings are extremely corrosive to rails and the state and integrity of the railway
system have been severely affected.
* There is no air pollution monitoring program
* The potential health hazards at the workshops include paint fumes, fine metal
dusts and noise. The hazards associated with copper concentrate handling/loading
and mine-related environment pollution on Zarnbia's Copperbelt also need
mention.
* The quality of the borehole water at the central workshops is not regularly
monitored
* The environmental impacts of ZRL's track weed control program(chemical spray)
and the use of wooden sleepers are unknown. This is unsatisfactory.
* The company has no environmental emergency preparedness and response plan.
This is highly unsatisfactory and can lead to prosecution and remediation costs
associated with contingent environmental damages caused by transported goods,
for example.
- The Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ) and its inspectorates are still very
much in their infancy. Zambia's supreme environmental legislation, the
Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act was enacted in 1990. Setting
up the ECZ took some years after that and the putting in place of regulations is
still in progress. There are currently no established environmental monitoring
programs even for non-contingent environmental damages. The capacity of ECZ
to monitor contingent environmental damages needs to be augmented.
The above conclusions on the environrental status of ZRL should be considered
against a background of a nascent but evolving national policy, legislative and
institutional framework.
8. ACTION PLAN
8.1 Remediation and Monitoring Plan
The plan is developed against a background of lack of environmnental data for
planning in the country and at ZRL in particular. Both the quantities and
qualities of waste discharges are largely unknown due to the absence of
environmental policies and management systems. The need for taking
corrective action is however there and the following action plan attempts to do
that.
Program      Objectives    Output      Activities    Responsibili  Priority and
ty           Estimated
Initial Costs
I.Development To bring ZRL   Environmental  Declared  Concessionaire  HIGH
of an      in line with    Policy     commitment                USS 100 000
environmental  international           by
policy and   standards of    Operational    management
putting in place environmental  Environmental



38                                                  Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Shtdy
Program        Objectives    Output           Activities     Responsibili  Priority and
ty             Estimated
Initial Costs
of an          management    Management   Initial
environmental   while at the  System          environmental
management    same time                       review
system at ZRL   taking full   An
incorporating    cognisance of   environmentall  Policy
the following    Zambia's     y friendly and   development
elements:      perculiarities,   competent
stage of       ZRL; an        EMS
*  Environme  development    environmentall  development
ntal Policy  and laws.     y enlightened
*  Environme                  and competent  EMS
ntal                       workforce.     implementation
Planning                                  and review
*  Implement
ation and
Operation
e  Checking
and
Corrective
Action
*  Manageme
nt Review
(Refer
Chapter5:
Environmental
and safety
concems and
improvement
proposals for
details)
2.Development                                                Concessionaire
and          To bring ZRL    A "cleaner"    Training       in              HIGH
introduction   into conformity  ZRL         courses and     collaborationwi  US$ 50 000
of cleaner   with best                      workshops      th ECZ
production   practices in
practices    cleaner                        Review of
including    production                     practices
good house
keeping,                                    Implementatio
waste                                       n of cleaner
minimisation,                               production
etc)                                        practices
ZRL Board and
3.1nstallation,o  To bring ZRL    A more      Assessment of  management in  HIGH
peration and    into           environmentall  pollution loads  collaboration    USS 150 000
maintenance of  compliance     y friendly and   and          with ECZ, the
pollution      with national    compliant ZRL  characteristics   Inspectorate of
control        and             with                          Factories and



39                                                  Zambia Railways Emvironmental Assessment Study
Program        Objectives    Output           Activities     Responsibili  Priority and
ty             Estimated
Initial Costs
equipment      international    appropriate   Purchase and    Kabwe
such as oil    standards in    pollution      installation of   Municipal
separators,    pollution      control         equipment      Council
fume           control        equipment and
extractors, etc               informed        Training of
and adoption of               methods of      staff on new
better methods                waste disposal  arrangements
of final
disposal of                                   Implementatio
hazardous                                     n of an
wastes                                        operation and
maintenance
program
4. Clean up
Contaminated  Ditto          Ditto           Ditto          Ditto           HIGH
sites                                                                    USS 150 000
including
central
workshops,
loco shed,
motor vehicle
maintenance
workshops and
unauthorised
disposal areas
adjacent to
workshops and
sites
contaminated
by copper
concentrate
droppings on
the Copperbelt
5.Development  To bring ZRL   A more          Assessment of  Concessionaire  MEDIUM
and            into           environmentall  wastes         in              USS 60 000
implementation  compliance    y friendly and   generated and   collaboration
of a solid     with national    compliant ZRL  their          with Kabwe
waste          legislation and   with clean   characteristics   Municipal
collection and   in line with  premises and                   Council and
disposal       best practice    an organised    Choice of     ECZ
system -                       scrap metal    methods for
including a                   handling        collection and
system for                     prograrn       disposal
storing and
disposal of                                   Development
scrap metals                                  and
implementation
Consider                                      of program
securing and
operating a
secure waste



40                                                 Zambia Railways Environmental Assessmenl Snidy
Program        Objectives    Output          Activities     Responsibili  Priority and
ty             Estimated
Initial Costs
disposal site
6. Training    To develop     Enlightened,    Workshops and  Concessionaire  LOW
the Safety  safety and    informed,      training                      USS30 000
and        environment    competent      courses
Environme  inspectors     Safety and
nt         appropriate    Environment
Inspectors  levels of     Inspectors in
in matters  competence    matters related
related to               to storage
storage
facilities
7. lntroductio  To monitor the  An operational  Develop    ZRL Board and  MEDIUM
n of a     performance of  wastewater    monitoring     management    US$ 50 000
wastewater the wastewater  treatment plant  program and    with
treatment  treatment plant  and effluent    implementation  cooperation of
plant      and the effluent monitoring   schedule       ECZ and
operation   quality       program with                  Kabwe
and                       systematic     Acquire        Municipal
maintenan                 records        additional     Council
ce                                       equipment for
program                                 the lab and re-
and an                                  train technician
effluent
quality
monitoring
program
To monitor    Air quality    Develop        Concessionaire  MEDIUM
8. Introductio  ambient air  monitoring      program,       in             US$ 30 000
n of an air  quality in view   program and    perhaps with    collaboration
pollution    of the location   associated  the assistance   with ECZ
monitoring  of central    records        of ECZ
program    workshops in
particular
Site-specific,    Develop     Concessionaire  MEDIUM
9. Developm   To develop a    effective      programs                      US$ 70 000
ent and    detailed       environment,
implement  framework for  safety and
ation of    health, safety   health plans
site-      and
specific    environment
environme  matters
nt, health
and safety



41                                                    Zambia Raihays Environmental Assessment Stud,
Program        Objectives      Output          Activities      Responsibili  Priority and
ty              Estimated
Initial Costs
plans;
medical
surveillanc
e
programs.
Acquisition of
specialised
equipment for
testing and
pollution
monitoring.
Protective     Create          ZRL Board and  MEDIUM
10. Acquisitio   To protect    attire and      awareness       management/C   US$ 60 000
n and      health and      accessories for  among staff    oncessionaire
provision   safety of      staff in use    about
of          employees                      protective
appropriat                                 equipment
e safety
attire for                                 Purchase safety
staff                                      attire and train
staff in proper
use
H4IGH
11. Competen   To raise the    Competent and  Workshops,       ZRL Board and  US$ 40 000
ce and      level of        aware staff    short courses    management/C
awareness  awareness and                                   oncessionaire
safety and   competence of
environrme  staff in
nt training   environment
for all staff  and safety
matters
HIGH
12. Establishm   To review the    Feedback into   Implement as    Concessionaire  As part of I
ent of      adequacy,       system and     part of EMS
manageme  suitability and   continual
nt review    effectiveness    improvement
procedures  of systems
(as part of
an EMS)
HIGH
13. Acquisitio   To bring ZRL    Environmental  Apply for      ZRL             US$ 500
n of        into            permits,        licences,
environme  compliance      licences        permits



42                                                    Zambia Railways Envronmental Assessment Stud)'
Program        Objectives    Output            Activities      Responsibili  Priority and
ty              Estimated
Initial Costs
ntal
licences
and
permits
14. Miscelane
ous                                                                        LOW
programs   To assess the    Knowledge of   Implement as    Concessionaire
Environme  environmental   environmental  listed after
ntal       impacts of:    impacts of       developing                      US$ I0 000
Impact     *  Track        ZRL's           specific action
Assessmen      weed        miscellaneous   plans
t of Track     control     activities;
Weed           program     water quality
Control                    monitoring
Program                    program;
rationalisation
of equipment
inventory/use
US$ 10 000
*  Environme  *  Use of
ntal           wooden
Impact         sleepers by
Assessmen      ZRL
t of Use of
Wooden
Sleepers
by ZRL
To assess the                                                  US$ 15000
*  Equipment  usefulness of
audit and    equipment
implement  stocks,
ation of    rehabilitation
recommen  and disposal
dations     options, etc
US$ 20 000
*  Monitorin   To monitor the
g of        quality of the
quality of   borehole water
borehole    supply at
water      central
workshops
*  Environme                                                                   US$ 50 000
ntal        To determine    Environmental  Commission
Impact of   the impact on   Impact Report   EIA study
the oily    the
discharges  environment
on the      todate of the
environme  free discharge



43                                                   Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Study
Program        Objectives    Output           Activities      Responsibili  Priority and
ty             Estimated
Initial Costs
nt into    of oily wastes
which they  into the
have been   environment
discharged
over the
years
1 5.Transported
goods
Development                                                   Concessionaire  HIGH
and            To develop      Emergency      Develop plan                    USS 20 000
implementation  procedures for  preparedness
of Emergency   responding to   and response
preparedness    environmental   plans
and response    emergencies/co
plan           ntingencies
Development                                                   ZRL
and                                                           management    HIGH
implementation  To develop     Environmentall  Develop
of more        arrangements    y friendly     arrangements
environmentall  for more       arrangements
y friendly     environmentall
arrangements    y friendly
for transporting  transportation
copper         of copper
concentrates.   concentrates
The mining
companies
should be
persuaded to
use sealed
wagons for
transporting
copper
concentrates
8.2 Institutional Responsibilities for Clean-up
ZRL (perhaps with the assistance of GRZ) will have to bear the responsibility
for instituting clean-up measures. This is in line with the "polluter pays
principle" embedded in the Environmental Protection and Pollution Control
Act.The clean up will have to be seen as a broad package of short and long-
term measures. The major recommended clean-up measures are as outlined in
the action plan and must include:



44                                         Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Study
(a)      the development and adoption of cleaner production practices leading to
waste minimisation, good house keeping, pollutuion control at source,
segregation of wastes - where feasible, etc.
(b) Installation, operation and maintenance of basic pollution control
equipment, in particular, oil separators at appropriate locations
(c) Possible pumping out of at least the surface oil-water admixture from the
environment adjoing the central workshops and the loco shed; and
institution of other remedial measures
(d) Proper disposal of scrap metal and other solid wastes
Other remedial measures as outlined in the action plan should include long
term issues such as the development of an environmental policy and an EMS,
training, introduction of environmental monitoring programs; development
and implementation of site-specific health, environment and safety programs.
Other measures must include the acquisition of protective equipment and
accessories and carrying out environmental impact assessment studies. The
preparation of emergency preparedness and emergency plans will also have to
be considered as part of the "clean-up" package in the broad sense.
Whereas ZRL and GRZ will have to bear the responsibility, a number of
national agencies will need to be involved. These should include, for example,
the local authorities, theEnvironmental Council of Zambia, the Inspectorate of
Factories, the Department of Water Affairs, the Investment Center, the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Health and
the Department of Energy
8.3 Roles and Responsibilities for National Agencies in Monitoring and
Evaluation of
Plan
COMPONENT OF             MAJOR RELEVANT            RESPONSIBILITY/ROLE
ACTION PLAN              NATIONAL AGENCY           OF AGENCY
1. Development of an     ECZ                       Advisory, coordinating,
environmnental policy                           regulatory
and an EMS
2. Introduction of Cleaner  ECZ                    Ditto
Production Practices
3. Installation, Operation   ECZ                   Ditto
and Maintenance of
Pollution Control
Equipment
4. Clean up of
contaminated sites    ECZ                       Ditto
5. Development and
Implementation a solid   ECZ                    Ditto
waste program



45                                          Zambia Railvays Environmental Assessment Stud5
COMPONENT OF             MAJOR RELEVANT             RESPONSIBILITY/ROLE
ACTION PLAN              NATIONAL AGENCY            OF AGENCY
6. Training of Safety and   Dept of Energy          Ditto
Environment Inspectors
in matters related to
storage facilities
7. Introduction of a     ECZ                       Ditto
Wastewater treatment
and Effluent Quality
Monitoring Program
8. Introduction of an Air   ECZ                    Ditto
Quality Monitoring
Program
9. Development and       ECZ, Inspectorate of      Ditto
Implementation of Site-  Factories, Ministry of
Specific Environment.   Health
Health and Safety Plans
10. Acquisition and      Inspectorate of Factories,    Ditto
Provision of          ECZ, Ministry of Health
Appropriate Safety
Attire for Staff
11. Competence and       Inspectorate of Factories,    Ditto
Awareness Safety and    ECZ, Training Institutions
Environment Training
for All Staff
12. Environmental Studies   ECZ, Dept. of Water    Ditto
and Groundwater       Affairs, Ministry of
Quality Monitoring    Environment and Natural
Resources
13. Development and      ECZ, Ministry of          Ditto
Implementation of an    Environment and Natural
Environmental         Resources
Emergency
Preparedness and
Response Plan;
environmental
consequences of
transported copper



46                                          Zambia Railiiays Environmental Assessment Study
9. APPENDICES
9.1 Self Assessment and Gap Analysis Questionnaire
Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Study
Self Assessment and Gap Analysis Ouestionnaire
1. General
The organisation has established an environmental management system (EMS) that
meets the requirements of ISO 14001 or similar standard.
o Fully established and implemented
o Established and some requirements implemented
2. Environmental Policy
Top management has defined the organisation's environmental policy.
o  Yes
o No
The environmental policy is appropriate and considers the nature, scale and
environmental impacts of the organisation's activities, products and services.
O Fully appropriate
o Partially appropriate, with some aspects/impacts omitted
o Not appropriate
The environmental policy includes a commitment to continual improvement.
o Yes, fully
o Commitment to continual improvement in policy could be improved
o No conmmitment to continual improvement
The environmental policy includes a commitment to comply with applicable
environmental legislation and regulations.
o Yes
o Yes, but commitment could be improved
o No
The environmental policy provides a commitment to comply with other requirements
to which the organisation subscribes.
o Yes
o Yes, but cormmitment could be improved
o No
The environmental policy provides a framework for setting and reviewing
environmental objectives and targets.
o Yes
o Yes, but framework could be improved
0 No



47                                         Zambia Railways Erviroamenzal Assessment Sntud
The environmental policy is documented and implemented
o Both
o  The policy is documented, but not fully implemented
o Neither
The environmental policy is maintained and communicated to all employees.
o Both
o Maintained, but communication efforts could be improved
o Neither
The environmental policy is available to the public
o  Yes
o No
3. Planning
Environmental Aspects
There is procedure established and maintained to identify the organisation's
environmental aspects in order to determine which aspects have significant
impacts on the environment
o                 Procedure exists
u                 Procedure could be improved
o                 Procedure does not exist
Significant aspects are considered when setting environmnental objectives.
O Yes, all
o  Some
o No, none
Information pertaining to significant aspects is kept up to date.
o Yes
D No
Legal and other requirements
A procedure has been established to identify and have access to legal requirements
and other requirements to which the organisation subscribes that are directly
applicable to environmental impacts. The procedure is current and is maintained.
O Yes, a procedure exists and is current
o A procedure exists but needs to be updated
o No, a procedure does not exist
Objectives and Targets
Objectives and targets have ben established at each relevant function and level within
the organisation.
O Yes, fully
o Partially, at some functions and levels, but not all
o No



48                                          Zambia Railwtays Environmenial Assessment Shw4'
Relevant legal and other requirements were considered when establishing objectives
and targets.
o Yes
o No
Significant environmental aspects were considered when establishing objectives and
targets.
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Technological options, financial, operational and business requirements were
considered when establishing objectives and targets.
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Views of interested parties were considered when establishing objectives and targets.
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
The objectives and targets are consistent with the environmental policy.
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
The objectives and targets are consistent with the commitment to prevention of
pollution.
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Environmental Management Programs
There is established environmental management program for achieving environmental
objectives and targets.
o Yes, fully established
o Partially established
o No
The environmental management program includes a designation of responsibility for
achieving objectives and targets at each relevant function and level of the organisation
o Yes
o Some responsibilities not designated
o No
The environmental management program includes the means and time frame by
which the objectives and targets are to be achieved.



49                                         Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Study
o Yes
Q Some time frames not included
o No
The environmental management program applies to new developments, new or
modified activities, products and services, as appropriate.
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
4. Implementation and Operation
Structure and Responsibilty
Roles, responsibility, and authorities are defined, documented and conimunicated.
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Resources essential to the implementation and control of EMS are provided -
including human resources and specialised skills, technology and financial resources.
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Top management has appointed a specific management representative(s) with defined
roles, responsibilities and authority for establishing, implementing and maintaining
the EMS
o Yes
o Some representatives not appointed
o Some roles, responsibilities and authorities not defined
o No
These representatives report to top management the performance of the environmental
management system for management review and as a basis for continual
improvement.
o Yes, on a scheduled basis
o Sometimes, but not on a scheduled basis
o No
Training, Awareness and Competence
Training needs have been identified and appropriate personnel have received
necessary training.
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No



50                                         Zambia Railwmays EmvironmenialAssessment Study
Procedures are established and maintained to make employees aware of the
importance of conformance with the environmental policy and procedures and with
the requirements of EMS
o Yes, full
o Partially
D No
Procedures are established and maintained to make employees aware of the
significant impacts, actual or potential, of their work activities and the environmental
benefits of improved personal performance.
o Yes, procedures are established and maintained
o Procedures could be improved
o No
Procedures are established and maintained to make employees aware of their roles
and responsibilities in achieving conformance with environmental policy and with
requirements of EMS - including emergency preparedness and response
requirements.
o Yes, procedures are established and maintained
o Procedures could be improved
o No
Procedures are established and maintained to make employees aware of the potential
consequences of nonadherence to operating procedures.
o Yes, procedures are established and maintained
o Procedures could be improved
o No
Personnel who perform tasks that may cause significant environmental impacts are
competent to perform their duties based on education, training and experience.
o Yes, fully competent
o Parially competent
o No
Communication
Procedures are established and maintained for internal communication about
significant environmental aspects of the EMS.
o Yes procedures are established and maintained
o Procedures could be improved
o No
Procedures are established for receiving, documenting and responding to relevant
communication from external interested parties as it relates to significant
environmental aspects and the EMS.
a Yes, procedures are establishe:- and maintained
o Procedures could be improved
o No



51                                        Zambia Railivays Environmental Assessment Said)
Means for externally communicating information about significant environmental
aspects have been considered and documented.
o Yes, fully reviewed and documented
o Reviewed, but not documented
o No
Environmental Management System(EMS) Documentation
Information describing the core elements of EMS is established and maintained.
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Document Control
Procedures for controlling all documents are established, maintained and readily
available.
o Yes, procedures are established, maintained and readily available
o Procedures established, but not readily available
o Procedures could be improved
o Procedures not established
These procedures are periodically reviewed, revised if necessary, and approved by
authorised personnel.
o  Yes, procedures are periodically reviewe and revised
o Procedures are reviewed and revised, but not on any specific schedule
o No, procedures are not reviewed
Current versions of relevant documents are available and in their proper locations for
effective functioning of the EMS.
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Obsolete documents are promptly removed from all areas using these documents.
o Yes
o No
Obsolete documents retained for legal or knowledge preservation purposes so marked
o Yes
o No
Documents are legible, dated and readily identifiable
o Yes
o No
There are procedures and responsibilities established and maintained for creating and
modifying pertinent documents
o Yes, procedures are established and maintained
o Procedures could be improved



52                                          Zambia Ranhiw'ys Environmental Assessment Study
o No
Operational Control
Operations and activities that are associated with significant environmental impacts
and which fall within the scope of the environmental policy, objectives and targets
have been identified.
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Procedures pertaining to these activities are established and maintained to cover
situations that, in their absence, might lead to deviations from the environmental
policy and the objectives and targets.
o Yes, procedures are established and maintained
o Procedures could be improved
o No
Procedures stipulate operating criteria
o Yes
o No
Procedures related to the significant environmental aspects of goods and services
from suppliers and contractors are established and maintained.
o Yes, procedures are established and maintained
o Procedures could be improved
o No
Relevant procedures and requirements are communicated to suppliers and contractors
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Emergency Preparedness and Response
Procedures that identify the potential for and the response to accidents and emergency
situations are established and maintained
o Yes, procedures are established and maintained
o Procedures could be improved
o No
The procedures address prevention and mitigation of environmental impacts that may
be associated with any accidents or emergency situations
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Emergency preparedness and response procedures are reviewed and revised as
necessary, but in particular after the occurrence of accidents or emergency situations
o Yes



53                                        Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Stdy
o No
Emergency preparedness and response procedures are periodically tested where
practicable
o Yes
o No
5. Checking and Corrective Action
Monitoring and Measurement
There are procedures established and maintained to monitor and measure on a regular
basis the key characteristics of the operations and activities that can have a significant
impact on the envinronrnent
o Yes, procedures are established and maintained
o Procedures could be improved
o No
Monitoring and measurement includes recording information to track performance,
relevant operations controls and conformance with objectives and targets
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Monitoring equipment is calibrated and maintained and a record of calibration process
is retained, per procedure.
o Yes
o No
A procedure is established and maintained to periodically evaluate compliance with
relevant environmental legislation and regulations
o Yes, a procedure is established and maintained
o Procedures could be improved
o- No
Nonconformance and Corrective and Preventive Action
Procedures are established and maintained for handling and investigating
nonconformance, for taking action to mitigate the impacts caused by
nonconformance, and for initiating corrective and preventive action.
o Yes, procedures are established and maintained
o  Procedures could be improved
o No
Responsibility and authority for these samne tasks are defined
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No



54                                         Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Shudv
Any corrective or preventive action is appropriate for the magnitude of actual or
potential environmental impact that has or could occur from nonconformance
o Yes
o No
Procedures are modified to reflect corrective and preventive action
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Records
Procedures are established and maintained for the identification, maintenance and
disposition of environrmental records.
o Yes, procedures are established and maintained
o Procedures could be improved
o No
Enviromental records include training records, records of audit results and records of
management reviews
o Yes
o No
Environmental records are legible, identifiable and traceable to the activity, product or
service involved.
Lo Yes
o No
Environmental records are easily retrievable and are protected from damage,
deterioration or loss
o Yes
o No
The retention history of the records is documented
o Yes
o No
The records demonstrate compliance with the standard
o Yes, fuilly
o Partially
o No
Environmental Management System(EMS) Audit
A program and procedures are established and maintained for periodic EMS audits.
o Yes, a program and procedures are established and maintained
o The program and procedures could be improved
o A program and procedures have been established



55                                         Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Study
The audits determine whether or not the EMS conforms to specified internal
requirements for environrmental management, including conformance to the
requirements of the standard
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
The audit determine whether or not the EMS has been properly implemented and
maintained
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
The audit results are presented for management review.
o Yes
o No
The audit procedures cover the audit scope, frequency and methodologies, and
responsibilities and requirements for conducting audits and reporting results.
O Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
6. Management Review
Top management periodically reviews the EMS to ensure continuing suitability,
adequacy and effectiveness.
o Yes, on a scheduled basis
o Sometimes, but not on a regular basis
o No
Necessary information is collected and provided to allow management to carry out the
evaluation
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
Management assesses the need for changes in environmental policy, objectives, and in
the EMS, as indicated by EMS audit results, changing circumstances, and the
commitment to continual improvement
o Yes, fully
o Partially
o No
END



56                                         Zambia Railways Environmental Assessment Stady
9.2 Staff Consulted/Interviewed at ZRL
1. Mr. R.G. Crawford - Managing Director, ZRL
2. Mr. N.K.J. Nyirenda - Manager, Safety and Environment, ZRL
3. Ms. H.M. Mukumba - Manager, workshops, ZRL, Central
workshops(CW)
4. Mr. G. E. Lungu - Engineer, Motive Power, ZRL, Central Workshops
5. Mr. A. Tembo - Engineer, Production and Plant Maintenance, ZRL, CW
6. Mr. J.K. Phiri - Engineer, carriage and Wagons, ZRL, CW
7. Mr. G. Mwanza - Superintendent, Carriage and Wagons, ZRL, CW
8. Mr. H. Mizinga - Safety and Environrent Inspector, ZRL, CW
9. Mr. L. Kalaluka - Foreman, Loco shed, ZRL, CW
1 0. Mr. Gondwe - Foreman, Motor vehicle repair workshop, ZRL
11. Mr. J. Chishiba - Acting Chief Inspector, Environmnental Council of
Zambia
12. Mr. F. Mangimela, Safety Inspector(Operations), ZRL, Kitwe
13. Mr. Lungu, Station Master, ZRL, Kitwe



57                                          Zambia Railisays Environmental Assessment Study
9.3 Documents Consulted
1. Acts of Parliament and Regulations - Zambia
2. Zanbia Railways Limited - General Information and Statistics
3. Zambia Railways - We Are On the Right Track
4. Zambia Railways Safety Rules
5. Train Accident Investigation Guide - Zambia Railways
6. Operating Rules - Zambia Railways
7. Operating Rules Appendix - Zambia Railways
8. Accident Prevention and General Safety Practice - Zambia Railways
9. Company Policy for Safety and Health at Work - ZRL
10. SADC Hazardous Materials Handbook
11. Discussion Document - Environment and Safety Dept - Zambia Railways



58
9.4    Schematic Layout of the ZRL Central
* *
*                             *Uum.a.U.m.....uI
*               h 7   Water
O    \z7/    storage
Tanks
*  uU                  C&W
*              *                              STORES
a~                                          _       _       _       _      _       _ A
FAB.
U       : . . u a i n u 0   " m   i -n   a   W H E E L   PA R Ki
*    **S115 L                 i            
*..-;A;t:- S+    CARPE.TY .MILLRIGHT                     PAINTSHOP
4a                                                                        ..._ .__  ..........
a *'       ,    -.,---. .    ..
s *                                                                  ADMIN BLOCK                      CANTEI
.4_.



59                                                  Zambia Railwvys Enrvironmen6al Ass=smcnt Stu#
9.5 ZRL Track Work Details
.now
LEEN
IL(ew



