Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3433-ZA
ZPA Project Agreement
(Railways Restructuring Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ZAMBIA PRIVATISATION AGENCY
Dated November 22, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3433-ZA
ZPA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 22, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ZAMBIA PRIVATISATION AGENCY (ZPA).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Zambia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
one million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ZPA agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary financing agreement (the ZPA Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ZPA, a portion of the proceeds 
of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made 
available to ZPA on the terms and conditions set forth in the ZPA Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS ZPA, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ZPA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, management, environmental and 
private sector practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the said 
Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ZPA shall otherwise agree, ZPA shall carry out the 
said Part of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ZPA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the ZPA Project 
Agreement and Part A of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, ZPA shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the 
Association and ZPA, a plan for the 
future operation of Part A of the 
Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with ZPA 
on said plan.
Section 2.04. ZPA shall duly perform all its obligations under the ZPA 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ZPA 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the ZPA Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ZPA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the ZPA Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
ZPA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ZPA of its 
Page  3
obligations under this Agreement and under the ZPA Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ZPA
Section 3.01. ZPA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, private sector and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ZPA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, management and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. ZPA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ZPA shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part 
A of the Project.
(b)
ZPA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal 
year, audited in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of 
its financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements and report 
of such audit 
by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, ZPA shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial system for Part A of the Project in order to 
enable ZPA, not later than April 30, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association. 
Each such report shall:
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for Part A of 
the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and 
projected sources and application of 
funds for the said Part of the Project 
for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report, and 
show 
Page  4
separately expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and explain 
variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the said Part of the 
Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, as 
at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, ZPA shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ZPA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify ZPA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  5
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Zambia Privatisation Agency:
Nasser Road
P.O. Box 30819
Lusaka, Zambia
Facsimile:
260 1 225270
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ZPA, or by ZPA 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Chief Executive of ZPA or such other person or persons as ZPA shall 
designate in writing, and ZPA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
ZAMBIA PRIVATISATION AGENCY
By /s/ Atan Shansonga
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
Project Implementation Manual
(a)
ZPA shall jointly with the Borrower and Zambia Railways prepare and 
furnish to the Association a Project Implementation Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association setting out details of all procedures, guidelines, 
timetables and criteria (including criteria for bidding for concessions and leases and 
a plan for the retrenchment of Zambia Railways staff) required for Part A of the 
Project.
(b)
ZPA shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ZPA shall 
not amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual (including 
criteria for bidding for concessions and leases and the Staff Retrenchment Plan) if, 
in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and 
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives 
Page  6
thereof.
2.
Miscellaneous
ZPA shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to the Development Credit Agreement, the carrying out of Part A of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, quarterly reports integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the said Part of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the said Part of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, on a quarterly basis, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Part F of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
6.
Not later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
carry out, jointly with the Association, Zambia Railways and ZPA a midterm review (the 
Midterm Review) of the progress made in carrying out the Project. The Midterm Review 
shall cover among other things:
(i)
an assessment of (A) work programs prepared as of the date of the 
Midterm 
Review and the progress made in carrying out the said 
programs, (B) 
training provided under the Project, (C) 
procurement under the Project, (D) 
the extent to which actions 
described in the indicators set out in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement 
have been carried out, and (E) plans made or proposed 
for 
updating said indicators; and
(ii)
a review of the state of maintenance of any works carried out 
under the 
Project.
