Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3433-ZA
ZR Project Agreement
(Railways Restructuring Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ZAMBIA RAILWAYS LIMITED
Dated November 22, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3433-ZA
ZR PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 22, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ZAMBIA RAILWAYS LIMITED (Zambia Railways).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Zambia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
one million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Zambia Railways 
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary financing agreement (the ZR Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Zambia Railways, a portion of 
the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be 
made available to Zambia Railways on the terms and conditions set forth in the ZR 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS Zambia Railways, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Zambia Railways declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out Parts B through E of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
railway management and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the said Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Zambia Railways shall otherwise agree, Zambia 
Railways shall carry out the said Parts of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Zambia Railways shall: (i) establish and thereafter maintain, 
until completion of the Project, a Project Account (the ZR Project Account) in a 
commercial bank
acceptable to the Association, into which Zambia Railways shall 
deposit its counterpart contributions to the costs of Parts B through E of the 
Project; (ii) pay into the ZR Project Account an initial amount of $100,000 equivalent 
(the Initial Deposit); and (iii) thereafter during each following quarter deposit into 
the ZR Project Account the amount required to cover Zambia Railways’ counterpart 
contribution for each such quarter, as determined by Zambia Railways and the 
Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts B through E of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Zambia Railways shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the ZR Project Agreement 
and Parts B through E of the Project. 
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Zambia Railways shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the 
Association and Zambia Railways, a plan 
for the future operation of Parts B 
through E of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with 
Zambia Railways on said plan.
Section 2.05. Zambia Railways shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
ZR Subsidiary Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Zambia Railways shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the ZR Subsidiary Financing Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) Zambia Railways shall, at the request of the Association, 
Page  3
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts B through E 
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
ZR Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit.
(b) 
Zambia Railways shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Zambia Railways of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the ZR Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Zambia Railways
Section 3.01. Zambia Railways shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, railway 
management and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Zambia Railways shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, railway management and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. Zambia Railways shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Zambia Railways shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to Parts B through E of the Project.
(b)
Zambia Railways shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal 
year, including those for the ZR 
Project Account, audited in accordance 
with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association consistently applied, 
by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of 
its financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements and report 
of such audit 
by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, Zambia Railways shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Page  4
Association for the strengthening of its financial system for Parts B through E of the 
Project in order to enable Zambia Railways, not later than April 30, 2002, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Association. Each such report shall:
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for Parts B 
through E of 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, 
and projected sources and application of 
funds for the said Parts of the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report, and show 
separately expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and explain 
variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the said Parts of the 
Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as 
at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, Zambia Railways shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Zambia Railways thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Zambia Railways of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  5
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Zambia Railways:
Zambia Railways Limited
P.O. Box 80935
Kabwe
Republic of Zambia
Facsimile:
260 522 4411
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Zambia 
Railways, or by Zambia Railways on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Managing Director of Zambia Railways or 
such other person or persons as Zambia Railways shall designate in writing, and Zambia 
Railways shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
ZAMBIA RAILWAYS LIMITED
By /s/ Atan Shansonga
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
Project Implementation Manual
(a)
Zambia Railways shall jointly with the Borrower and ZPA prepare and 
Page  6
furnish to the Association a Project Implementation Manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, setting out details of all procedures, guidelines, 
timetables and criteria (including criteria for bidding for concessions and leases and 
a plan for the retrenchment of Zambia Railways staff) required for the Project.
(b)
Zambia Railways shall carry out Parts B through E of the Project in 
accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Zambia Railways shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project 
Implementation Manual (including the criteria for bidding for concessions and leases 
and the Staff Retrenchment Plan) if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment 
or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Staff Retrenchment
(a)
Without prejudice to the provisions of the laws of the Borrower, 
including the Borrower’s Employment Act, Chapter 268 of the Laws of the Borrower, the 
Staff Retrenchment Plan shall include the following provisions:
(i)
concessionaires shall identify staff they wish to employ through 
their own 
diligence;
(ii)
concessionaires shall, in consultation with the relevant trade 
unions, 
define the terms of employment of Zambia Railways 
staff to be employed by 
the concessionaires;
(iii)
concessionaires shall offer letters of employment to staff 
selected by them 
for employment; and staff not selected shall be 
retrenched by Zambia 
Railways in accordance with agreed terms 
of retrenchment satisfactory to 
the Association;
(iv)
staff of Zambia Railways selected by concessionaires for 
employment may 
refuse any offer of employment made by 
concessionaires pursuant to this 
paragraph; and
(v)
any staff refusing any such offer of employment by concessionaires 
shall 
not be eligible for employment by the concessionaires until 
the expiry of a 
period of not less than 3 years after the refusal of 
employment.
(b)
Zambia Railways agrees that unless otherwise agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association, staff retrenched under the Project shall not be 
re-employed in either the public or private sectors of the Zambia Railways and/or 
concessionaires service; and to that end Zambia Railways shall employ external 
auditors, acceptable to the Association, to verify that Zambia Railways and 
concessionaires do not employ retrenched staff.
4.
Pension Scheme Arrears
(a)
Zambia Railways shall no later than: (i) December 31, 2001 pay into the 
Pension Fund not less than $1,000,000 equivalent of the arrears owed by Zambia 
Railways to its employees under into the Pension Fund; and (ii) no later than six 
months after the Effective Date pay all arrears to in full to eligible employees of 
Zambia Railways all arrears of payments due and payable to such employees under the 
Pension Fund.
(b)
Zambia Railways undertakes to retrench at least 700 of its surplus staff 
no later than four months after the Effective Date.
5.
Miscellaneous
Zambia Railways shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to the Development Credit Agreement, the carrying out of Parts B through E of the 
Page  7
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, quarterly reports integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the said Parts of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the said Parts of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, on a quarterly basis, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Parts B through E of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
6.
No later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, Zambia Railways 
shall carry out, jointly with the Association, the Borrower and ZPA a midterm review 
(the Midterm Review) of the progress made in carrying out the Project. The Midterm 
Review shall cover among other things:
(i)
an assessment of (A) work programs prepared as of the date of the 
Midterm 
Review and the progress made in carrying out the said 
programs, (B) 
training provided under the Project, (C) 
procurement under the Project, (D) 
the extent to which actions 
described in the indicators set out in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement 
have been carried out, and (E) plans made or proposed 
for 
updating said indicators; and
(ii)
a review of the state of maintenance of any works carried out 
under the 
Project.
