                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32836

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-32780 PPFI-Q1130)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$2 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                  UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                                 FOR A

                       RURAL AND MICRO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT




                                              June 30, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2005)

                                  Currency Unit = TSh
                                          TSh 1 = US$ 0.0008898
                                          US$ 1 = TSh 1123.80

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 1 -    June 30

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AROA      Average Return on Assets
AROE      Average Return on Equity
BOT       Bank of Tanzania
CAMEL     Capital, Assets, Management, Earnings, and Liquidity
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBO       Community Based Organization
CGAP      Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest
DMFI      Directorate of Microfinance Institutions
FIDP II   Second Financial Institutions Development Project
FSAP      Financial Sector Assessment Program
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
IDA       International Development Association
MCM       Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing
MFI       Microfinance Institution
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NMB       National Microfinance Bank
NMP       National Microfinance Policy
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PHRD      Population and Human Resource Development
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
PEARLS    Protection, Effective financial structure, Asset quality, Rates of return and cost,
          Liquidity, and Signs of growth
PTF       Presidential Trust Fund
RFSP      Rural Financial Services Project
RMFSP     Rural and Microfinancial Services Project
SACCOS    Savings and Credit Cooperatives Society
TAMFI     Tanzania Association of Microfinance Institutions
WDF       Women Development Fund
YDF       Youth Development Fund



                                Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                             Country Director        Judy M. O'Connor
                              Sector Manager         Antony Thompson
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Korotoumou Ouattara

                                          TANZANIA
                  RURAL & MICROFINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      23

Project ID: P050441                                                  Project Name: RURAL& MICRO FIN SVC
Team Leader: John Byamukama                                          TL Unit: AFTFS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: RURAL& MICRO FIN SVC                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-32780; PPFI-Q1130
   Country/Department: TANZANIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (50%); Banking (39%); Micro-
                            and SME finance (11%)
                  Theme: Small and medium enterprise support (P); Legal institutions for a
                            market economy (P); Rural markets (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/01/1997                                     Effective: 07/01/1999                06/15/2000
     Appraisal: 10/16/1998                                         MTR: 02/28/2001                  02/11/2002
      Approval: 08/26/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF TANZANIA/BANK OF TANZANIA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James W. Adams
Sector Manager:                 Antony Thompson                                Gerard A. Byam
Team Leader at ICR:             Korotoumou Ouattara                            Antony Thompson
ICR Primary Author:             John P. Byamukama


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of this project, as stated in the project appraisal document (PAD), is the development of a
common policy framework, based on Internationally recognized best practices, for Rural and Microfinance
in Tanzania which will establish an enabling environment for rural and microfinance and increase the
quality and returns of the many follow-on investments planned by Government agencies and other donors.
The project will also seek to increase the level of knowledge and skills within the industry and institute a
program of systematic tracking and analyzing all initiatives against common criteria. The lessons derived
from that analysis will be fed back to the industry and other stakeholders. The effectiveness of this initiative
will be measured by monitoring Government and donor compliance with the policy framework and the
quality and quantity of new investments in the sector.

The development objective of the Rural and Microfinancial Services Project (RMFSP) was consistent with
the government's policy of increasing access by small savers and micro entrepreneurs to financial services.
The project was designed in the context of a liberalized financial sector and bank privatization in order to
address Government concerns that bank branches in rural areas would be closed and most of the new
entrants into the sector were already focusing their attention on the high-value end of the market
concentrated primarily in Dar es Salaam. The Government was therefore interested in establishing a
conducive environment for the development of a sustainable rural and microfinance system with wide
outreach, thereby contributing to broad-based growth and poverty reduction through expansion of financial
intermediation to small-scale rural and urban clients. This was a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) that
was supposed to be implemented fast so that lessons of experience could be fed back into the industry for
the benefit of stakeholders. It was not complex as it had only five relatively small components with two
institutions involved in its implementation. The majority of the activities fell under the Bank of Tanzania
(BOT) and one small component fell under the Cooperatives Department of the Ministry of Cooperatives
and Marketing (MCM).

3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions

3.3 Original Components:
Component;

(i) DEVELOPMENT OF A NATIONAL POLICY ON RURAL AND MICROFINANCE; (Cost:
$100,000.00)
This component was to support preparation of a national microfinance policy based on wide stakeholders
consultation and international best practice. This would encourage donors to make substantial investments
into the sector.

(ii) DESIGN OF AN APPROPRIATE LEGAL,REGULATORY, AND SUPERVISORY
FRAMEWORK; (Cost: $295,000.00)
This component was to support the review of the legal, regulatory and supervisory framework of rural and
microfinance and develop laws and regulations as well as detailed proposals for strengthening supervisory
arrangements.

(iii) DEVELOP OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES SETTING STANDARDS FOR GOVERNMENT AND
DONORS; (Cost: $70,000.00)
The component was to develop a set of operational guidelines and standards for banks, cooperative
financial institutions, NGOs and capacity building initiatives to ensure that each government and donor


                                                       - 2 -

initiative maintains certain quality standards, uses a consistent set of performance indicators and focuses on
sustainability of the interventions.


(iv) CAPACITY BUILDING FOR DIRECTORATE OF MICROFINANCE, BANK OF TANZANIA
AND COOPERATIVES DEPARTMENT; (Cost: $1,532,000)

The component was to build the capacity of the Directorate of Microfinance (DMFI) at Bank of Tanzania
to coordinate, track and analyze development activities in rural and microfinance. DMFI would coordinate
donor and government initiatives and track progress on each initiative using a common set of performance
indicators and feed back the results to stakeholders through workshop and conferences. The component was
also to build the capacity of the Cooperatives Department at the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing
and develop operational guidelines and standards as well as a supervisory framework for Savings and
Credit Cooperatives Societies (SACCOS).

(v)   ENHANCE KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS BUILDING IN THE MICROFINANCE INDUSTRY;
(Cost: $200,000.00)
This component was to support a series of technical workshops to disseminate research work and technical
handbooks prepared by the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP) on various topics, and to
support a series of annual conferences bringing together all stakeholders in the industry which would be a
forum for exposing participants to international developments and experiences within the country.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revisions.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory in the ICR. There has been no assessment by the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) on the project. The project's objective was consistent with one of the objectives of
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) to build needed capacity in areas critical for sound economic
management.This was meant to support one of the Government's priorities to restart progress in poverty
reduction by raising growth performance and extending access to basic social and economic services. The
Government had realized that there was potential for growth in the informal manufacturing sector
(tailoring, bakery, beverages, pottery, metal products, wood products and jewelry) if there were
improvements in the availability of microfinance, training in business skills and basic infrastructure
facilities. This sub-sector accounted for 16 percent of the total informal sector value added (the urban
informal sector accounted for about 15 percent of GDP). The project was responding to the Government's
realization that there was great interest on the part of donors, NGOs and others to invest in the development
of sustainable rural and microfinance institutions to provide financial services to the informal sector.
However, there was no common framework to guide investment in the sector in a consistent and
complementary manner under a common set of principles and uniform regulation and supervision. The
project was thus designed to address this shortcoming.

Project design, preparation and appraisal benefitted from wide consultations and detailed comments from
Peer Reviewers and microfinance specialists from CGAP. Despite the small size of the credit, project
design and preparation received the highest attention from Bank management as well as senior procurement
and financial management staff. The assessment of the risk associated with building capacity to implement
the project was rated as Modest on the understanding that the knowledge already existing in the BOT
would be shared with the DMFI staff. The risk was actually substantial and the minimization measure
identified was thus not adequate to deal with the limited implementation capacity at the beginning of the



                                                       - 3 -

project when the risk became real.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is rated satisfactory. The main objective of the project to establish an enabling
environment for rural and microfinance was first achieved by the adoption of a National Microfinance
Policy (NMP) through a broad consultative process among stakeholders. Before the start of the project,
Tanzania had no national policy or strategy for developing a viable and sustainable microfinance sector.
The new policy was crafted along international best practice standards and set the stage for helping the
Government and the donor community to appreciate the importance of developing sustainable rural and
microfinance institutions providing a range of financial services to small scale clients as opposed to the
previous practices of directed credit to target sections of the population which had a poor record of
sustainability and development impact. The NMP provided guidelines for the microfinance sector regarding
pricing, delinquency control, financial reporting and information management, as well as gender equity and
governance.

The microfinance environment was further enhanced with the amendment of the banking law to take into
account microfinance companies as well as SACCOS and make them part of the financial landscape in
Tanzania and provide for their effective licensing and supervision by the Bank of Tanzania (BOT).
Although delayed, the drafting and adoption of regulations for microfinance companies and SACCOS that
emulate international best practice completed the set up of the legal and regulatory framework for the
development of microfinance in Tanzania.

As was envisaged under the project, donor compliance with the new microfinance policy could already be
witnessed with Government of Tanzania no longer being a direct provider of microfinance services as it
gradually divested from several projects including Presidential Trust Fund (PTF), Self, Women
Development Fund (WDF), Youth Development Fund (YDF), and Rural Financial Services Project
(RFSP). Tracking and analysis of the largest microfinance providers by BOT has also shown an
improvement in the performance of microfinance institutions with: (i) increased profitability and improved
CAMEL ratings; (ii) increased loan portfolio and reduced delinquency rates; (iii) reduced level of subsidies
for on-lending; (iv) increased number of institutions and services outlets; and (v) increased number of
customers. Between 2001 and 2003, the number of new retail outlets increased by 20 percent, clientele
grew by 72 percent on average, outstanding loan portfolio and savings deposits grew by 88 percent and 52
percent respectively, with a low non-performing loan ratio of less than 5 percent on average. Profitability
indicators were also on the rise with average adjusted return on assets (AROA) and adjusted return on
equity (AROE) increasing 26 percent and 46 percent respectively. Operational and financial
self-sufficiency, though still low at below 50 percent, were increasing as well. The tracking and analysis
program has been mainstreamed into the BOT's work program and is likely to be sustainable and continue
to provide information about the industry in future. An improvement in the quality and quantity of new
investments in the microfinance sector was also noticeable with an increase in resources available in the
sector with US$1 million raised by the donor community to set up the Financial Sector Deepening Trust
which will be used to build the capacity of microfinance institutions (MFIs) in accordance with the
recommendations of the microfinance policy.

In addition to establishing an enabling environment for rural and microfinance, the project was also
supposed to increase the level of knowledge and skills within the industry which was successfully achieved
through annual conferences and technical workshops that were conducted for industry participants and
stakeholders exposing participants to international developments and experiences within the country.



                                                      - 4 -

One major positive outcome from the project activities is that microfinance in Tanzania has achieved high
visibility and is no longer on the periphery of the financial sector. A number of commercial banks have
recently become involved either in the provision of microfinance services to individuals, especially loans to
salaried workers, or wholesale lending to microfinance institutions, thus taking advantage of a new enabling
environment created by the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(i) Approved National Policy on Rural and Microfinance: Highly Satisfactory.
The policy was prepared and adopted efficiently in a timely manner and with wide stakeholder
consultations. This included customer and industry surveys, participatory workshops, study tours for policy
makers, and a joint review of the rural and microfinance sector by the various Government agencies and
donors active in the sector. The policy was the first major step in putting in place the right environment for
a viable and sustainable microfinance system in Tanzania. It provided a vision, as well as guidelines for
both practitioners and donors in several areas including pricing, delinquency control, financial reporting
and information management, appropriate techniques and products, as well as gender equity and
governance. Tanzania National Policy for Rural and Microfinance is internationally recognized as best
practice and has attracted a number of visitors from other countries who have come to learn from the
Tanzanian experience.

(ii)     Appropriate legal, regulatory and supervisory framework: Satisfactory.
The Microfinance law was passed in April 2003 by amending the Banking and Financial Institutions Act
1991 instead of passing a specialized law. Amending the banking law to include microfinance institutions
as another category of financial institution alongside commercial banks and other non-bank financial
institutions has the advantage of bringing microfinance into the mainstream of the financial sector and
allowing it the visibility it deserves. The regulations to accompany the microfinance law took, however, a
long time to complete. There were a number of contentious issues on which the stakeholders could not
agree and the process of building a consensus was slow. In the end, stakeholders comments, including
detailed comments from the joint World Bank/IMF Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) report,
were taken on board in the final draft of the regulations. Although the project closed two months before the
regulations were gazetted, i.e., officially published, the final output of the regulations was worthy of best
practice. The regulations as approved by the Government deal in a satisfactory manner with key areas in
microfinance regulation including the definition of microcredit, a clear list of activities that microfinance
companies (MFCs) are allowed to carry out, capital adequacy norms, and minimum capital requirements.
These regulations will help with better supervision of the microfinance industry by BOT and the
transformation of newly licensed microfinance companies into viable institutions. Already, the largest MFIs
in Tanzania have been making adjustments to their operations to comply with the new regulations as they
prepare to be licensed and supervised by BOT.

(iii)    Operational guidelines providing standards for Government and donor investments in rural and
microfinance: Marginally Satisfactory.
This activity started towards the closing of the project and the guidelines were ready in March 2005 after
the project was closed. The guidelines cover principles for supporting organizations engaged in
microfinance in Tanzania in accordance with the microfinance policy as well as the new legal, regulatory,
and supervisory framework. However, due to its late finalization, it was not possible to witness donor and
government compliance with the guidelines as was envisaged under the project.

(iv)     Capacity Enhanced in the Directorate of Microfinance Institutions (Bank of Tanzania) to enable it
coordinate effectively the functions of microfinance: Satisfactory.



                                                       - 5 -

Specialized training provided to the staff of the Directorate of Microfinance (DMFI) to monitor the
microfinance industry was followed by the adoption of a tracking and analysis tool developed by the
world-renowned former Micro Banking Bulletin (MBB), now MIX consultant. This unique tool originally
developed for microfinance networks to monitor the performance of their members, allowed DMFI to
collect, input, and analyze information on 24 MFIs including banks, NGOs and SACCOS. Although it has
been difficult for DMFI to collect information and financial data on the majority of MFIs which remain
unlicensed, DMFI was still able to undertake the evaluation of the five largest direct providers of
microfinance services (NMB, Pride, SEDA, FINCA, and PTF) which account for about 90 percent of the
market share of total loans granted to low income clients in Tanzania. The results of the evaluation, done
for the first time in Tanzania, showed significant progress being made in outreach, profitability, as well as
sustainability. The gathering of information by the DMFI using its tracking and analysis tool is going to be
an invaluable tool in future when it is used to effectively monitor and supervise soon to be licensed MFIs.
Both the gathering and dissemination of information on the majority of MFIs (both licensed and unlicensed)
could also be accomplished in the future with closer collaboration of DMFI with TAMFI, the professional
association of microfinance institutions.

(v)      Capacity Building for the Cooperatives Department: Satisfactory
The capacity and knowledge of staff of the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing (MCM) in
microfinance and SACCOS was enhanced through various training courses aimed at supervision of
financial cooperatives. The establishment and adoption of operational guidelines and standards as well as a
supervisory framework for SACCOS was delayed but finally approved by the Ministry of Cooperatives
and Marketing (MCM) after the project closed. The approved operational guidelines reflect international
best practice in the financial cooperative and microfinance world and include: (a) the adoption of PEARLS
prudential ratios (a system of standards developed by the World Council of Credit Unions to monitor
performance); (b) a modern MIS (Management Information System); (c) a code of ethics and governance
structure; and (d) rules/regulations as well as Model bylaws for SACCOS. The Ministry of Cooperatives
and Marketing (MCM) also approved detailed recommendations on how to organize itself to successfully
supervise SACCOS. The project was able to deliver on its promise to set the stage for the development of a
viable SACCOS industry by setting up the needed standards. The implementation of the operational
guidelines and enforcement of the regulations which have not yet started, however, will be supported by the
ongoing and planned financial sector operations in Tanzania.

(vi) Enhancing Knowledge and Skills within the Microfinance Industry: Satisfactory
In order to enhance public awareness on issues related to rural and microfinance, the project organized two
workshops on Operational Risk Management for Microfinance Auditors and Accountants, and on Business
Planning and Financial Modelling for Microfinance Institutions in 2002. These highly technical workshops
were intended to enhance the skills of not only microfinance practitioners but of the support network of the
sector as well. In addition, three annual conferences bringing together local as well as international
stakeholders in the industry were held between 2001 and 2004 and helped enhance and share knowledge as
well as shape Government policy in microfinance. The last conference held in March 2004 discussed the
future of rural finance in Tanzania. It concluded that past direct government interventions seem to have
failed and that efforts by Government should be directed at creating an enabling environment and mitigating
market failures. These conclusions are being used as inputs in defining the Government's planned second
generation financial sector reforms.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:



                                                      - 6 -

Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project had a substantial impact on all the institutions with which it was involved. It was instrumental
in enhancing the capacity of the staff of the Directorate of Microfinance Institutions (DMFI) as well as the
Department of Cooperatives (MCM) in understanding the issues of rural and microfinance by facilitating
their participation in highly recommended international courses in microfinance as well as hands-on local
training. The tracking and analysis tool has strengthened the monitoring and evaluation capacity of the
DMFI which is going to be handy in future for monitoring licensed MFIs. The approved operational
guidelines and supervisory framework for SACCOS have provided the foundation on which the
Cooperatives Department will be able to monitor the SACCOS sector once the guidelines have been
operationalized.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Generally, there were no factors outside the control of the government or the implementing agency that
affected the implementation and outcome of the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Macroeconomic policies and conditions were right and Government commitment to the development of
sustainable rural and microfinance was strong. Counterpart funding, in the form of contribution in-kind by
Bank of Tanzania, was also readily available. The main factor that was subject to Government control and
affected project implementation and outcome was the delays in approvals of laws, regulations and
guidelines once they were prepared and submitted to the Government. While the National Microfinance
Policy was approved in a timely manner, subsequent pieces of legislation and regulations encountered
approval delays.The microfinance law had to be enacted by Parliament and the Regulations had to get the
approval of the Minister of Finance and Minister of Cooperatives and Marketing. Both of these processes
were out of the control of the implementing agency.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
At the time of project design, Bank of Tanzania had just successfully implemented an IDA financial sector
project and there was an understanding that the implementing agency would draw on this expertise in the
BOT to quickly build its implementation capacity. During project implementation, there was however little
collaboration between the DMFI and the BOT department experienced in IDA procedures which led to
DMFI staff taking long to grasp IDA procedures. This contributed to delays in procurement of goods and
services. Eventually towards the mid term of the project, the staff of the implementing agency learnt the
Bank procedures and there was some improvement in the pace of implementation. Overall, the
implementing agency prepared annual work plans but their implementation was not well planned. Sufficient
lead time was not provided for to allow for procurement of necessary services or goods for implementing
the annual work plan in a timely manner. There was also limited delegation of responsibilities in the
implementing agency. Valuable time was lost when reports or procurement documents were ready but
could not be released because the only official to give the seal of approval was not available.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original cost estimate of the project was US$2.45 million, with IDA providing US$2 million and the
Government providing US$0.45 million. A PHRD grant of US$500,000 was provided for the initial
activities of research into rural and microfinance in Tanzania as a foundation for the preparation of the
National Microfinance Policy. In addition, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$145,000 was
provided for initial project activities. The funds provided for the project were adequate to cover all of the



                                                      - 7 -

activities, including a contingency fund of US$200,000 (under Unallocated Category).

The delays in project implementation caused disbursements to be slow. Even for funds that were already
utilized, project management was not submitting Withdrawal Applications on a timely basis. The project
was initially supposed to become effective on December 26, 1999 but preparation of the Project
Implementation Plan took longer than expected and the project eventually became effective on June 15,
2000. Its original closing date was December 31, 2002, but because of the delay in effectiveness and the
slow rate of implementation, the closing date was extended twice to December 31, 2003 and then to
December 31, 2004. At the closing of the project, total disbursements amounted to US$1.55 million with
an undisbursed balance of US$0.65 million (differences in total amounts due to exchange rate movements)
which is to be cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The probability that the project will maintain the achievements generated is high. The provision of financial
services to under-served sections of the population as part of a strategy for increased income generation
activities to fight poverty is still a government priority. Some of the activities initiated under the project,
such as the tracking and analysis tool, have been incorporated into the regular work plan of the Bank of
Tanzania. In addition, the project team agreed with the Government that activities which were not
completed under the project would be financed under the ongoing Second Financial Institutions
Development Project (FIDP II). This included completion of studies that were ongoing and dissemination of
their findings, as well as developing the supervisory framework for enforcement of the various regulations
and guidelines that were developed during the project. The supervision of licensed MFIs and large
SACCOS is to be mainstreamed into the work of the Directorate of Banking Supervision of BOT. In
addition, the Government is in the process of initiating second generation financial sector reforms based on
the recommendations of the joint Bank/Fund Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) to be funded by
various donors. Among the activities envisaged under rural and microfinance are: (i) conducting a needs
assessment for MFI umbrella organizations and strengthening them; (ii) putting in place the supervisory
framework for the smaller MFIs (SACCOS, and CBOs); and (iii) supporting capacity building and
financial infrastructure for financial cooperatives. These activities are all building upon the foundation laid
by the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As mentioned above, the project's future operation will rely on activities that have been mainstreamed into
the BOT's regular work program together with the ongoing IDA-funded FIDP II and the planned
multi-donor funded second generation financial sector reforms. A new set of performance indicators is in
the process of being developed under the new planned program of reform. As the World Bank will be
financing some of the activities in the new program, this will provide an opportunity to monitor the
progress of the project's operation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank during lending was satisfactory. The Bank supported the Government in the
identification stage by providing a PHRD grant that supported research on the rural and microfinance
sector. The results of this research were the basis of a joint Government/donor review of the sector from
which the project concept was derived. The Bank team included CGAP and other rural finance experts to
ensure that the project reflects internationally recognized best practice in microfinance. There was close



                                                       - 8 -

collaboration with the Borrower which ensured that project design was consistent with Government's
development priorities for the sector. The Bank provided a PPF to support initial preparations for project
effectiveness. The costing of the activities was adequate and the project had sufficient funding through its
life time.

7.2 Supervision:
The performance of the Bank during supervision was satisfactory. The Bank carried out at least 2
supervision missions every year, each lasting about 2 weeks, throughout the life of the project. For each
supervision mission, an Aide Memoire that reported in detail project implementation progress was prepared
and discussed with the authorities. Appropriate ratings on Implementation Progress were given in Form
590/PSRs following each supervision mission. For example, implementation progress was downgraded at
one time when progress on one of the critical components was lagging behind and appeared likely to affect
achievement of the project's development objective. The project rating was then upgraded when agreed
actions were carried out satisfactorily to rectify implementation problems. The Bank team was flexible and
was patient with the Implementing Agency as its staff went through the learning process of Bank
procedures. The Development Credit Agreement had to be amended to provide flexibility on the
procurement methods that could be used. The team was always ready and available to provide expert
advice and assistance both in the field and from headquarters. There was continuity in the team and through
the four and a half years of the life of the project. Task team leadership changed only once and the former
task team leader remained an active member of the project team. Procurement, financial management and
disbursements support was being efficiently provided from the Country Office.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On the basis of the high quality of the team at lending and the effective supervision efforts, the overall Bank
performance in the project was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Borrower at the preparation stage was satisfactory. The Borrower showed a high
level of enthusiasm and ownership during the early stages of project preparation and carried out extensive
consultations with stakeholders. The very first national conference on microfinance for all financial
institutions in Tanzania in April 1997 was sponsored by the Bank of Tanzania. The conference brought in
some of the world's leading experts to make presentations at the conference and to selected
Parliamentarians and Members of Cabinet. The Borrower was heavily involved in the follow-up activities
that culminated in the joint Government /donor review of the microfinance sector. Commitment to
development of rural and microfinance was at the highest levels of Government. The President of Tanzania
made a specific request in January 1998 in Kampala to then Bank President, Mr. Wolfensohn, for the
Bank's support in the development of microfinance services. Mr. Wolfensohn indicated the Bank's
willingness to help so long as the support was provided in the context of established microfinance best
practice.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Government was satisfactory. Macroeconomic policies were conducive to the
successful implementation of the project. The Government kept committed to the objectives of the project
and did not interfere in operational decisions. The process of approval of laws and regulations was however
slow, but all laws and regulations have now been approved. The provision of counterpart funding was
timely as this was provided in-kind by Bank of Tanzania (such as provision of office space and staff for
project management).



                                                       - 9 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency was marginally satisfactory. The collaboration between the
DMFI and the Directorate of Banking Supervision (DBS) which had good knowledge of implementation of
Bank-funded projects did not take place as envisaged. DBS has already implemented a more complex
project and had a wealth of knowledge that would have benefited the implementation capacity of the DMFI.
However, when implementation started, there was less consultation and more of a desire to drive the agenda
from within the DMFI. Given the high level of collaboration and involvement of stakeholders at the
preparation stage, this change in behavior had not been anticipated. As a result, it took longer than
expected for the staff of the DMFI to grasp Bank procedures thus leading to implementation delays. The
situation improved slightly when the implementing agency started seeking for guidance from the members
of the project team that were based in the Country Office. In general, the planning for the various activities
did not take into account the lead time necessary to procure services or goods required to carry out those
activities. This was the reason why some activities were started a few months before the closing date of the
project and could only be completed after the project had closed. The recommendations of the Bank team
were not addressed in a timely manner with the result that it was common for a similar set of issues from
one supervision mission to still be outstanding six months later at the next mission. For example, closer
collaboration with donors involved in rural and microfinance and with TAMFI was not carried out
consistently despite repeated suggestions from the Bank team.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. The initial commitment and involvement of the
Borrower was high but the level of collaboration among stakeholders levelled off during implementation.
The Government continued to give improved access to finance a high priority in its program.

8. Lessons Learned

(i) The project was designed as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). It was meant to be executed
quickly so that the outputs could be applied to the rural and microfinance industry and the lessons learnt
from there re-applied to the industry to catalyze further development. This was an ambitious target for a
project that was reform-oriented to be completed in three years. A number of activities, such as reviewing
and amending laws, involved consensus building among stakeholders which takes a long time. In the end,
this project turned out to be like a normal investment project. A LIL was thus not the right instrument to
carry out some of the envisaged long term reforms.

(ii) For a policy-oriented operation, the benefits of the policy can best benefit the industry participants if
there is close collaboration between the implementing agency and other stakeholders in the industry. At the
preparation stage, the wide collaboration led to a good design. Implementation is normally a difficult stage
where a number of vested interests in the industry have to be brought on board to support the proposed
reforms. In this project, there was limited collaboration during implementation between the implementing
agency and other interested parties, such as other departments of BOT, development partners, Ministry of
Finance and the umbrella associations, which led to delays and lack of clear channels of communication
with the practitioners. For example, as the MFIs were not licensed by BOT, the implementing agency had
no leverage in its requests for information from the MFIs. This would have been better addressed if there
had been close collaboration with TAMFI which is the interface between the policymakers and the MFIs.

(iii) The project showed that a suitable enabling environment is essential for a sustainable rural and
microfinance system. The adoption of the National Microfinance Policy at an early stage brought order into
the Tanzania system and ensured that Government did not get involved in the provision of subsidized
directed microfinance lending which undermines the operations of MFIs. Even with some other elements,



                                                     - 10 -

such as supervision, yet to be put in place, the industry is already showing substantial improvements in
outreach and profitability.

(iv) It is important for project sustainability to use existing Government capacity in implementing the
project. Because the project was mainstreamed into the normal BOT operations, activities that were
initiated under the project are still being carried out even after the project has closed.

(v) The project raised the profile of rural and microfinance in Tanzania and attracted a number of
development partners into the sector. The Bank's agenda tends to define or set the trend for what the other
development partners will focus on in a given sector. As part of the harmonization process, the Bank
clearly has a leadership role in mapping out the needs of the financial sector within a sector-wide approach
whereupon all development partners can agree on the areas to which they can provide their support.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


The Borrower has provided a contribution to the ICR and the full text of the report is included in Annex 8.
The section of the Executive Summary of the Borrower's contribution covering the main findings,
conclusions, lessons learnt, and recommendations is included in this section.

Main Findings of the Study

The RMFSP (components or objectives) had evolved and were incorporated in BOT's corporate strategic
plans. This is an indicator of internalisation of the project activities into the mainstream activities of the
BOT. Overall, the RMFSP has generally performed the intended activities as planned and achieved its
objectives in spite of some delays. Based on field interviews, the overall effectiveness is rated as
substantial.

The World Bank has participated in the RMFSP as financier through IDA window as well as through
providing technical assistance. The World Bank ensured compliance with World Bank's procurement,
payment, and accounting procedures and internal control systems. Actual disbursement of resources was
generally consistent with planned allocations. World Bank financing of this project did not crowd out other
donors since provision for co-financing was made.

There is concern over delays attributed to the complexity of the World Bank procurement procedures. For
instance, concern has been expressed over delays in procurement of the consultants attributed to the
complexity of procurement procedures involving application for "no objection" in at least four stages. One
lesson to be learned from this experience is that project implementation would have been simplified if the
World bank/IDA had made efforts to align its procurement procedures to the national procurement systems.
The need to align donor systems to national systems is a principle that has now been agreed upon as
expressed in the Rome Declaration (2003) and the Paris Declaration (2005). In future the World Bank
should make the necessary adjustments to accommodate the principles of Rome and Paris conventions. This
would save efforts and resources spent learning new procedures associated with project of this kind.

The preparations for the development of the NMP provided the foundation for the evolution of an efficient
and effective microfinance system that would serve the low-income segment of the society, and thereby
contribute to broad based economic growth and reduction of poverty in Tanzania. The process of
formulating the policy was broadly participatory, involving a wide spectrum of stakeholders.



                                                       - 11 -

The exercise of reviewing current financial sector regulations and proposing appropriate legal and
regulatory framework as well as the supervisory arrangements for the MF industry was completed
satisfactorily although some components of it were delayed due to delays in procuring consultancy services.


Development of the operational guidelines for government and donor investments in the microfinance
industry has prepared ground for ensuring that support initiatives maintain certain quality standards, use
consistent sets of performance indicators and focus on ensuring sustainability. The major concern is that
this component has not been completed during the life of the project. However, alternative arrangements
were made to ensure its completion.

Capacity building focused on DMFI of BOT and CDD of MCM, which oversees the SACCOs. Major
achievements were made in building capacity in DMFI and CDD in terms of human capital development
through training courses, technical workshops and conferences and in providing the necessary equipment
and working facilities. While initiatives taken to build the capacity of the regulating bodies, notably BOT
and MCM the project design did not explicitly include one important player, MOF.

Tracking and analysis of the MF industry is being carried out. Two challenges have been identified in
establishing a comprehensive picture of the MF industry in Tanzania.            First, many MFIs have not
developed the culture of being transparent and some do not feel obliged to provide information to the DMFI
since they are not licensed by the BOT. Second, the MFIs adhere to varying standards and different
systems and formats of record keeping.

The RMFSP facilitated stakeholders to acquire knowledge and skills in microfinance by providing exposure
to information on international practice and other best practices. This knowledge was imparted through
various workshops and conferences.

RMFSP is relevant to the current concerns over poverty reduction and broad based growth as reflected in
key government policy and strategy documents. Overall, based on the field interviews, the relevance of the
RMFSP is rated as substantial.

The resources allocated for various activities in the project were spent according to plan. By developing
capacity in DMFI, duplication of effort within government departments in matters of microfinance has been
reduced most likely resulting in reduced transaction costs. The overall efficiency is rated as substantial.

The RMFSP's benefits are likely to be sustainable overtime considering that the process adopted was
largely participatory and ownership was high. Financially, the fact that the project was mainstreamed in
the structures of BOT points towards sustainability even after the project has ended. It is expected the
Financial Sector Deepening Programme, established as a Trust as one outcome of this project, will help to
sustain this trend. Overall, the RMFSP's activities and outputs are likely to be sustainable

The RMFSP has just been completed so it may be too early to measure its impact. However, there are
indications that the project has laid the foundation for impacts to be felt in terms of enhanced access to
microfinancial services in the country especially by people with small means. Broad based access to
microfinancial services is likely to generate broad based        income generation and employment and
ultimately contribute to poverty reduction in the country.

Conclusion and Lessons Learnt


                                                    - 12 -

Overall Assessment: The RMFSP has performed its activities as planned. The various components of the
projects were found to be complementary and internally consistent. The World Bank was found to have
carried out its responsibilities as planned except for concerns over delay in implementation of some
activities that was attributed to the complexity of the World Bank procurement procedures.

Lessons Learned

Mainstreaming of project implementation in the main activities of the DMFI is a strength. The fact
that project implementation was mainstreamed into the corporate plan of the Bank of Tanzania facilitated
internalisation of the project into regular activities of the implementing institution.


Complementarity among different components is a strength: A well-prepared microfinance policy has
been completed followed by a legal and regulatory framework and operational guidelines and standards
coupled with capacity building and knowledge enhancing initiatives. Putting in place these complementary
instruments has made a major contribution towards laying the foundations of the enabling environment for
development of micro finance in the country. Ensuring complementarity among different components is a
strength of this project.

Adaptation of Best Practices and Standards: The project recognised that the microfinance industry has
gone through a major evolution in recent years. Therefore, the design of the project provided for learning
from international experience and enhancing knowledge in developments in the microfinance industry. This
strength of the project is amenable to replication in other projects.

Inclusivity of the project in terms of permitting co-financing is a strength of the project. It has been
learned that providing for inclusivity, permitting co-financing of project related components has enhanced
cooperation of other donors in project implementation. Participation in project design and implementation
has enhanced ownership of the project outcomes by the key stakeholders, a situation which is conducive to
attaining sustainability.

Simplification of Procurement procedures
One lesson to be learned from this experience is that project implementation would have been simplified if
the World bank/IDA had made efforts to permit simplification of its procedures or to align its procurement
procedures to the national procurement systems.

Recommendations

Capacity Building. The project has focused more on capacity building within the DMFI and CDD of
MCM. The way forward should ensure that capacity of regulating institutions is complemented by directing
capacity building to the MOF and the operators and practitioners.

Project implementation should be mainstreamed into the activities of the implementing agency. The
project design should be part of the strategic plan of the implementing agency. This approach in project
design and implementation would facilitate internalisation and enhance ownership and sustainability.

In the era of globalisation it is important to build in mechanisms of learning and knowledge
generation in project activities. The design of projects should recognise that the many industries are



                                                       - 13 -

going through considerable changes and provide for learning from international experience and enhancing
knowledge in developments in the respective sectors.

Aligning Procurement Procedures to National Procedures
The need to align donor systems to national systems is a principle that has now been agreed upon as
expressed in the Rome Declaration (2003) and the Paris Declaration (2005). In future the World Bank
should make the necessary adjustments to accommodate the principles of Rome and Paris conventions and
align its procedures to national procedures.

Raising the Institutional Profile for Microfinance Policy. The study has found that much as Tanzania
has a huge potential for microfinance, the MOF which has the mandate to take formulate and take the lead
in presenting the microfinance policy through Cabinet is itself rather weak. It is therefore recommended
that a microfinance unit be established within the MOF to oversee policy and regulatory matters relating to
microfinance in the country. Priority should be given to building the capacity of that unit.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
An enabling environment for rural and         The effectiveness of the NMP will be             NMP adopted in May 2000 and followed by
micro-finance that facilitate the inflow of   measured by monitoring Government and            several investments including the rural
quality investments into the sector is        donor compliance with the policy framework       finance program by African Development
achieved with the development of a common and the quality and quantity of new                  Bank and Financial Sector Deepening Trust,
policy framework.                             investments in the sector.                       the donor joint initiative.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
National Policy on Rural & Micro-Finance is   Policy is being implemented by all               Policy was approved in May 2000. Action
approved.                                     stakeholders.                                    plan for policy implementation was
                                                                                               developed.
Appropriate legal, regulatory and supervisory Legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework Legal framework for microfinance adopted in
framework is established.                     is in place.                                     Feb. 03 with amendment of the Banking law.
                                                                                               Regulations for microfinance companies,
                                                                                               financial cooperatives and SACCOS were
                                                                                               drafted, cleared by the ministry of Finance
                                                                                               and published in the official Gazette in March
                                                                                               2005.
Operational Guidelines providing standards    Operational Guidelines are developed for         Guidelines have been drafted and
for Government and donor investment in rural banks, cooperative financial institutions,        arrangements have been made for their
and micro-finance are developed and           NGOs and capacity building initiatives.          dissemination to be financed by FIDPII
implemented.                                  Compliance by Government, donors and
                                              NGOs to the operational guidelines is
                                              achieved by December 2004.
Capacity enhanced in the Bank of Tanzania     Staff training is completed and staff is able to 26 DMFI & CDD staff attended various
enabling them to coordinate effectively the   successfully use tracking and analysis tool to courses. DMFI Staff now able to use tracking
functions of micro-finance.                   monitor MFIs as well as according to a list of and analysis tool after training to monitor
                                              best practice monitorable indicators selected    MFIs.
                                              from the Nationwide Policy.
Knowledge in the Micro-Finance Institutions   Three Annual conferences and three               Two technical workshops organized by DMFI
Sector is increased.                          bi-annual technical workshops have been          and held in May and October 2002,
                                              held.                                            respectively. Also, three annual conferences
                                                                                               on microfinance were held in March 2001,
                                                                                               December 2002 and March 2004.
Sustainable rural and micro finance           - Increased profitability and CAMEL rating       Analysis of 7 major MFIs (Pride, FINCA,
institutions with a wide outreach.            - Reduced delinquency rates                      SEDA, PTF, NMB, Mucoba, Kibaigwa) from
                                              - Improved quality of subsidies                  2001 to 2003 show that:-Increase in AROA
                                              - Increased number of institutions/service       by 26% and AROE by 46%
                                              outlets                                          - Delinquency rates fell to 5% and below
                                              - Increased number of clients                    - Reduced lines of credit
                                                                                               - Number of retail outlets up 20% and
                                                                                               Number of clients up 72%.

1End of project




                                                                  - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Develop a National Microfinance Policy                       0.15             0.10              66
Develop Legal, Regulatory and Supervisory Framework          0.30             0.33             110
Develop Guidelines for Government and Donors                 0.07             0.08             114
Capacity Building for DMFI and MCM                           1.53             1.36              89
Enhance Knowledge and Skills in Microfinance                 0.20             0.16              80

Total Baseline Cost                                          2.25             2.03
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.20             0.00               0
                        Total Project Costs                  2.45             2.03
                  Total Financing Required                   2.45             2.03


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.16          0.00         0.16
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.16)          (0.00)       (0.16)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         1.57          0.00         1.57
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.57)          (0.00)       (1.57)
4. Operating Expenses             0.00              0.00         0.07          0.45         0.52
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.07)          (0.45)       (0.52)
5. Unallocated                    0.00              0.00         0.20          0.00         0.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.20)          (0.00)       (0.20)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         2.00          0.45         2.45
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.00)          (0.45)       (2.45)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.16           0.00        0.16
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.16)         (0.00)       (0.16)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         1.41           0.00        1.41
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.41)         (0.00)       (1.41)
4. Operating Expenses             0.00             0.00         0.01           0.45        0.46

                                                - 16 -

                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.01)            (0.45)           (0.46)
5. Unallocated                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               0.00               0.00              1.58             0.45              2.03
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.58)            (0.45)           (2.03)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              9/8/1997                  3    TASK TEAM LEADER
                                             RURAL FINANCE
                                             SPECIALIST
                                             FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/28/1998                5    TASK TEAM LEADER
                                             RURAL FINANCE
                                             SPECIALIST (2)
                                             FM SPECIALIST
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST
              7/9/1999                  5    TASK TEAM LEADER
                                             LAWYER
                                             FM SPECIALIST
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             PEOCUREMENT SPECIALIST

 Supervision

              02/19/2000                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              03/31/2000                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              11/07/2000                1    TEAM MEMBER. (1)                    S               S
              05/07/2001                1    SR. FINAN. SECTOR SPEC (1)          S               S
              07/20/2001                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             SR. PROG. & BUDGET OFF
                                             (1); FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                                             (1)
              08/14/2002                3    FIN. ECON/TTL (1); FIN.             S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FIN.SP./COUNTRY ANCHOR
                                             (1)
              03/07/2003                3    FIN. ECONOMIST/TTL (1);             U               S
                                             LEAD FIN.SECTOR SPEC. (1);
                                             FIN. SPECIALIST (1)
              11/21/2003                2    TASK LEADER (1); FIN.               S               U
                                             SECTOR ANCHOR (1)
              11/21/2003                2    TTL (1); Lead Finance Sec. Spec     U               S
                                             (1)
              06/04/2004                3    TTL (1); Country anchor (1);        S               S



                                              - 19 -

                                             Fin. Sector Spec. (1)
               11/19/2004              2     TTL,SR. FIN. ECONOMIST (1);        S    S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)


 ICR
               4/15/2005               1     FINANCIAL ANALYST                  S    S
                                             (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation     Not available                            97
  Appraisal/Negotiation          Not available                            65
  Supervision                              96                            378
  ICR                                       5                             30
  Total                                                                  570




                                             - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  (i) Final PSR
  (ii) Aide Memoire of final supervision mission
  (iii) Monthly Disbursement Sumnmary, April 2005

  Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

      _______________________________________________________________________

         Final Evaluation of the World Bank Support on the Rural and Microfinancial Services Project (RMFSP- Cr. No. 3278 TA)



        ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL RESEARCH FOUNDATION
                                                         (ESRF)




    FINAL EVALUATION OF THE RURAL AND MICROFINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
                                               (RMFSP- Cr. No. 3278 TA)

                                          FOR THE BANK OF TANZANIA



                                                           Final Report




                                                         2nd May 2005


Table of Contents


List of Abbreviations                                                                                                        ii



                                                                  - 23 -

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT                                                                               iii

Executive Summary                                                                             iv

Section 1:    INTRODUCTION                                                                     1

  1.1    Background and Objectives                                                             1
  1.2    Methodology                                                                           2

Section 2:    Findings                                                                         3

  2.1    The Performance of the Bank of Tanzania during Evolution and Implementation of the
         RMFSP                                                                                 3
  2.2    The Performance of the World Bank during Evolution and Implementation of the RMFSP
         4
  2.3    The Assessment of the RMFSP Objectives, Design, Implementation and Operational
         Experience                                                                            6
     2.3.1  Development and Adoption of National Microfinance Policy                           6
     2.3.2  Development of an Appropriate Legal, Regulatory and Supervisory Framework for
            Microfinance Operations in Tanzania                                                6
     2.3.3  Development of Operational Guidelines providing Standards for Government and Donor
            Support into the Micro Finance Sector (Banks, NGOs, Cooperatives and Capacity Building)
            8
     2.3.4  Capacity Building for Staff and Procurement of Motor Vehicles and Office Equipment for the
            Directorate of Microfinance (DMFI) and Cooperative Development Department (CDD) of the
            Ministry of Cooperative and Marketing (MCM)                                        9
     2.3.5  Enhancing Microfinance Knowledge and Skills                                       11
  2.4    The Determination of the Relevance, Effectiveness, Efficiency, Sustainability and Impact of the
         RMFSP                                                                                12
     2.4.1  The Relevance of the RMFSP                                                        12
     2.4.2  The Effectiveness of the RMFSP                                                    13
     2.4.3  The Efficiency of the RMFSP                                                       13
     2.4.4  The Sustainability of the RMFSP                                                   13
     2.4.5  The Impact of the RMFSP                                                           14

Section 3:    Conclusion, LESSONS LEARNT and Recommendations                                  15

  3.1    Conclusion                                                                           15
  3.2    Lessons Learned                                                                      15
  3.3    Recommendations for the Way Forward                                                  17

References                                                                                    19

ANNEXES                                                                                       20

  Annex 1: The List of Persons Interviewed                                                    20


                                         List of Abbreviations

BOT              Bank of Tanzania
BPFMIM Business Planning and Financial Modelling for Micro finance Institutions


                                                  - 24 -

CDD           Cooperative Development Department
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DMFI          Directorate of the Micro Finance
ESRF          Economic and Social Research Foundation
FIDP          Financial Institution Development Project
FIPED         Financial Institutions for Private Enterprise Development
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
MCM           Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing
MFI           Micro Finance Institutions
MKUKUTA       Mkakati wa Kukuza Uchumi na Kupunguza Umaskini Tanzania
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NBAA          National Board of Accounting and Auditing
NGO           Non Governmental Organisation
NMP           National Micro finance Policy
NPES          National Poverty Eradication Strategy
NSC           National Steering Committee
NSGRP  National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty
ORMAM Operational Risk Management and Auditing of Micro finance
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PER           Project Evaluation Report
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PPI           Project Performance Indicator
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RMFSP  Rural Micro finance Services Project
SACCOS Savings and Credit Cooperative Societies
SCCULT Savings and Credit Cooperative League of Tanzania Ltd
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
TAS           Tanzania Assistance Strategy
NTF           National Task Force
TOR           Terms of Reference
TTL           Task Team Leader
US$           United States Dollar




                                                  - 25 -

                                         ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

This report has been prepared on behalf of the Economic and Social Research Foundation by Prof. Samuel M.
Wangwe as Lead Consultant assisted by Godwill G. Wanga and Prosper Charle.

The consultants would like to thank all stakeholders who cooperated in providing the necessary information
which enabled this study to be completed. The usual disclaimer applies.




                                                     - 26 -

                                               Executive Summary
Introduction

The Rural and Micro-Financial Services Project (RMFSP) was launched in January 2000. The workshop
to launch the RMFSP was held in Arusha from 10th to 12th February 2000. The workshop aimed at providing
opportunity for each project beneficiary to explain their programmes and learn about procedures associated
with the implementation, including responsibilities for achieving project objectives. The workshop participants
included leaders of the financial institutions, senior civil servants related to the project, representatives of the
World Bank, members from the donor countries and agencies interested in the areas and project. and became
effective in mid June 2000 on fulfilling the laid down conditions. The project was financed through IDA credit
no.3278-TA of SDR 1.5 million ($2 million) plus counterpart funding from the Government of Tanzania
(GOT) of $452,000.

General Objectives of the project: The RMFSP intended to create an enabling environment for developing a
broad based, sustainable rural and micro-finance system. The strategic goal of the project is to contribute to
broad-based growth and poverty reduction through the expansion of financial intermediation to small-scale
clients in the rural as well as urban areas of Tanzania.

Components of the project (RMFSP): The project has five components:

(i) Development of a National Microfinance Policy;

(ii)Development of an Appropriate Legal, Regulatory and Supervisory Framework for Microfinance for
operations in Tanzania;

(iii)       Development of operational guidelines providing standards for government and donors support into
microfinance sector;

(iv) Capacity Building:
i. Capacity building for the Directorate of Microfinance of the Bank of Tanzania;
ii. Capacity Building for the Cooperative Development Department (CDD) of the Ministry of Cooperatives
and Marketing;
iii. Procurement of motor vehicles and office equipment for the Directorate of Microfinance and Cooperative
Development Department of the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing.

(v) Enhancing of knowledge and skills within the Microfinance Industry.



The Scope of Work for this Assignment

(i) To assess the project objectives, design, implementation and operational experience.

(ii)To evaluate the performance of the Bank of Tanzania during evolution and implementation of the project
with emphasis on lessons learned.

(iii)       To evaluate the performance of the World Bank or other partners during the evolution and
implementation of the project with emphasis on lessons learned.




                                                        - 27 -

Methodology

In undertaking this assignment the study team reviewed project related documents and interviewed
representatives of key stakeholders.

Main Findings of the Study

The RMFSP (components or objectives) had evolved and were incorporated in BOT's corporate strategic
plans. This is an indicator of internalisation of the project activities into the mainstream activities of the BOT.
Overall, the RMFSP has generally performed the intended activities as planned and achieved its objectives in
spite of some delays. Based on field interviews, the overall effectiveness is rated as substantial.

The World Bank      The World Bank group encompasses 5 development institutions including the IBRD, IDA,
IFC, MIGA, and ICSD. has participated in the RMFSP as financier through IDA window as well as through
providing technical assistance. The World Bank ensured compliance with World Bank's procurement,
payment, and accounting procedures and internal control systems. Actual disbursement of resources was
generally consistent with planned allocations. World Bank financing of this project did not crowd out other
donors since provision for co-financing was made.

There is concern over delays attributed to the complexity of the World Bank procurement procedures. For
instance, concern has been expressed over delays in procurement of the consultants attributed to the
complexity of procurement procedures involving application for "no objection" in at least four stages. One
lesson to be learned from this experience is that project implementation would have been simplified if the
World bank/IDA had made efforts to align its procurement procedures to the national procurement systems.
The need to align donor systems to national systems is a principle that has now been agreed upon as expressed
in the Rome Declaration (2003) and the Paris Declaration (2005). In future the World Bank should make the
necessary adjustments to accommodate the principles of Rome and Paris conventions. This would save efforts
and resources spent learning new procedures associated with project of this kind.

The preparations for the development of the NMP provided the foundation for the evolution of an efficient and
effective microfinance system that would serve the low-income segment of the society, and thereby contribute
to broad based economic growth and reduction of poverty in Tanzania. The process of formulating the policy
was broadly participatory, involving a wide spectrum of stakeholders.

The exercise of reviewing current financial sector regulations and proposing appropriate legal and regulatory
framework as well as the supervisory arrangements for the MF industry was completed satisfactorily although
some components of it were delayed due to delays in procuring consultancy services.

Development of the operational guidelines for government and donor investments in the microfinance industry
has prepared ground for ensuring that support initiatives maintain certain quality standards, use consistent sets
of performance indicators and focus on ensuring sustainability. The major concern is that this component has
not been completed during the life of the project. However, alternative arrangements were made to ensure its
completion.

Capacity building focused on DMFI of BOT and CDD of MCM, which oversees the SACCOs. Major
achievements were made in building capacity in DMFI and CDD in terms of human capital development
through training courses, technical workshops and conferences and in providing the necessary equipment and
working facilities. While initiatives taken to build the capacity of the regulating bodies, notably BOT and
MCM the project design did not explicitly include one important player, MOF.


                                                         - 28 -

Tracking and analysis of the MF industry is being carried out. Two challenges have been identified in
establishing a comprehensive picture of the MF industry in Tanzania. First, many MFIs have not developed
the culture of being transparent and some do not feel obliged to provide information to the DMFI since they
are not licensed by the BOT. Second, the MFIs adhere to varying standards and different systems and formats
of record keeping.

The RMFSP facilitated stakeholders to acquire knowledge and skills in microfinance by providing exposure to
information on international practice and other best practices. This knowledge was imparted through various
workshops and conferences.

RMFSP is relevant to the current concerns over poverty reduction and broad based growth as reflected in key
government policy and strategy documents. Overall, based on the field interviews, the relevance of the RMFSP
is rated as substantial.

The resources allocated for various activities in the project were spent according to plan. By developing
capacity in DMFI, duplication of effort within government departments in matters of microfinance has been
reduced most likely resulting in reduced transaction costs. The overall efficiency is rated as substantial.

The RMFSP's benefits are likely to be sustainable overtime considering that the process adopted was largely
participatory and ownership was high.         Financially, the fact that the project was mainstreamed in the
structures of BOT points towards sustainability even after the project has ended. It is expected the Financial
Sector Deepening Programme, established as a Trust as one outcome of this project, will help to sustain this
trend. Overall, the RMFSP's activities and outputs are likely to be sustainable

The RMFSP has just been completed so it may be too early to measure its impact. However, there are
indications that the project has laid the foundation for impacts to be felt in terms of enhanced access to
microfinancial services in the country especially          by people with small means. Broad based access to
microfinancial services is likely to generate broad based       income generation and employment and ultimately
contribute to poverty reduction in the country.

Conclusion and Lessons Learnt

Overall Assessment: The RMFSP has performed its activities as planned. The various components of the
projects were found to be complementary and internally consistent. The World Bank was found to have carried
out its responsibilities as planned except for concerns over delay in implementation of some activities that was
attributed to the complexity of the World Bank procurement procedures.

Lessons Learned

Mainstreaming of project implementation in the main activities of the DMFI is a strength. The fact that
project implementation was mainstreamed into the corporate plan of the Bank of Tanzania facilitated
internalisation of the project into regular activities of the implementing institution.


Complementarity among different components is a strength: A well-prepared microfinance policy has been
completed followed by a legal and regulatory framework and operational guidelines and standards coupled
with capacity building and knowledge enhancing initiatives. Putting in place these complementary instruments
has made a major contribution towards laying the foundations of the enabling environment for development of


                                                           - 29 -

micro finance in the country. Ensuring complementarity among different components is a strength of this
project.

Adaptation of Best Practices and Standards: The project recognised that the microfinance industry has gone
through a major evolution in recent years. Therefore, the design of the project provided for learning from
international experience and enhancing knowledge in developments in the microfinance industry. This strength
of the project is amenable to replication in other projects.

Inclusivity of the project in terms of permitting co-financing is a strength of the project. It has been
learned that providing for inclusivity, permitting co-financing of project related components has enhanced
cooperation of other donors in project implementation. Participation in project design and implementation has
enhanced ownership of the project outcomes by the key stakeholders, a situation which is conducive to
attaining sustainability.

Simplification of Procurement procedures
One lesson to be learned from this experience is that project implementation would have been simplified if the
World bank/IDA had made efforts to permit simplification of its procedures or to align its procurement
procedures to the national procurement systems.

Recommendations

Capacity Building. The project has focused more on capacity building within the DMFI and CDD of MCM.
The way forward should ensure that capacity of regulating institutions is complemented by directing capacity
building to the MOF and the operators and practitioners.

Project implementation should be mainstreamed into the activities of the implementing agency. The
project design should be part of the strategic plan of the implementing agency. This approach in project design
and implementation would facilitate internalisation and enhance ownership and sustainability.

In the era of globalisation it is important to build in mechanisms of learning and knowledge generation in
project activities. The design of projects should recognise that the many industries are going through
considerable changes and provide for learning from international experience and enhancing knowledge in
developments in the respective sectors.

Aligning Procurement Procedures to National Procedures
The need to align donor systems to national systems is a principle that has now been agreed upon as expressed
in the Rome Declaration (2003) and the Paris Declaration (2005). In future the World Bank should make the
necessary adjustments to accommodate the principles of Rome and Paris conventions and align its procedures
to national procedures.

Raising the Institutional Profile for Microfinance Policy. The study has found that much as Tanzania has a
huge potential for microfinance, the MOF which has the mandate to take formulate and take the lead in
presenting the microfinance policy through Cabinet is itself rather weak. It is therefore recommended that a
microfinance unit be established within the MOF to oversee policy and regulatory matters relating to
microfinance in the country. Priority should be given to building the capacity of that unit.




                                                        - 30 -

Section 1:                INTRODUCTION

1.1        Background and Objectives

The Project Background: The Rural and Micro-Financial Services Project (RMFSP) was launched in
January 2000         The workshop to launch the RMFSP was held in Arusha from 10th to 12th February
2000. The workshop aimed at providing opportunity for each project beneficiary to explain their programmes
and learn about procedures associated with the implementation, including responsibilities for achieving project
objectives. The workshop participants included leaders of the financial institutions, senior civil servants related
to the project, representatives of the World Bank, members from the donor countries and agencies interested in
the areas and project.     and became effective in mid June 2000 on fulfilling the laid down conditions. The
project was supposed to be completed in December 2002 but due to implementation delays it was completed in
December 2004. The project was financed through IDA credit no.3278-TA of SDR 1.5 million ($2 million)
plus counterpart funding from the Government of Tanzania (GOT) of $452,000.

General Objectives of the Project: The RMFSP intended to create an enabling environment for developing a
broad based, sustainable rural and micro-finance system. The objective was to realise a diversified and
sustainable rural and micro-finance system with wide outreach in the country. The strategic goal of the project
was to contribute to broad-based growth and poverty reduction through the expansion of financial
intermediation to small-scale clients in the rural as well as urban areas of Tanzania.

Components of the Project (RMFSP): The project has five components:

(i) Development of a National Microfinance Policy: The RMFSP intended to finalise a national policy for
rural and micro-finance and have it approved.

(ii)Development of an Appropriate Legal, Regulatory and Supervisory Framework for Microfinance: The
RMFSP determined to oversee a review by international experts of the legal, regulatory and supervisory
framework for rural and micro-finance. The review would result in appropriate revisions of the law and
regulations and make proposals for strengthening supervisory arrangements.

(iii)       Development of operational guidelines providing standards for government and donors support
into microfinance sector: The RMFSP expected to prepare operational standards/guidelines for banks,
cooperative financial institutions, NGOs and capacity building initiatives with a view to ensuring that each
initiative by Government and donors adheres to certain quality standards, uses consistent set of performance
indicators and focuses on sustainability of the interventions.

(iv)        Capacity Building
i.   Capacity building for the Directorate of Microfinance of the Bank of Tanzania;
ii. Capacity Building for the Cooperative Development Department (CDD) of the Ministry of Cooperatives
and Marketing;
iii. Procurement of motor vehicles and office equipment for the Directorate of Microfinance and Cooperative
Development Department of the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing.

(v) Enhancing of knowledge and skills within the Microfinance Industry: This component of the RMFSP was
supposed to enhance knowledge and skills in the industry through technical workshops and conferences to
expose stakeholders to international developments and best practices in rural and micro-finance activities.




                                                        - 31 -

The Scope of Work for this Assignment: The scope of work for this assignment covers the following:

(i) To assess the project objectives, design, implementation and operational experience.

(ii)To evaluate the performance of the Bank of Tanzania during evolution and implementation of the project
with emphasis on lessons learned.

(iii)      To evaluate the performance of the World Bank or other partners during the evolution and
implementation of the project with emphasis on lessons learned.

1.2        Methodology

In undertaking this assignment the study team reviewed project related documents (detailed in the list of
references) and interviewed representatives of key stakeholders (see Annex 1) based on the checklist, which
was derived from the terms of reference (TOR) and discussions with the DMFI. The list of interviewees drew
from Government, DMFI, CDD, members of the NSC and NTF, participants in technical workshops and
training courses and donors.

The study team used the collected information to assess the project objectives, design, implementation and
operational experience as well as to evaluate the performance of the Bank of Tanzania and World Bank and
any co-financed or other partners during the evolution and implementation of the project in accordance with
the scope of work for this assignment.




                                                       - 32 -

Section 2:               Findings

2.1         The Performance of the Bank of Tanzania during Evolution and Implementation of the
            RMFSP

In 1997, the BOT commissioned the K-REP to conduct a study to address the rural and microfinance
national-wide demand and policy formulation. Findings from that study contributed to the way forward and
microfinance activities were explicitly incorporated in BOT's corporate plans for 1998/99-2002/3 and
2003/4-2007/8 as shown in Table 1 below.

            Table 1: The Summary of Corporate Microfinance Strategic Programmes by BOT
 Sn       Components of the BOT Strategic Programme                1998/99-2002/     2003/04-2007/08
                        as similar to RMFSP                               03
 1    Develop a national policy on rural and microfinance                                   
 2    Develop a focal point to implement project programmes,                                
      coordinate donor and external resources, including
      government initiatives within the sector
 3    Develop an appropriate legal, regulatory and                                          
      supervisory framework to facilitate a rapid growth of
      microfinance institutions
 4    Develop operational guidelines for banks, cooperatives,                               
      NGOs and capacity building
5     Monitor and evaluate micro-finance and the industry                                     
 6    Enhance knowledge and skills on microfinance                                            
                                   Source: Bank of Tanzania Documents

The RMFSP (components or objectives) constituted the major part the microfinance activity in the BOT as
contained in corporate strategic plans. The incorporation of the main components of the RMFSP into BOT's
corporate strategic plans is one important indicator of internalisation of the project activities into the
mainstream activities of the BOT. Organisationally, the project was mainstreamed in the BOT activities and
regular operations rather than operate as a separate and parallel project implementation unit.

At the technical level, the Director of Microfinance (DMFI) of the BOT was the overall coordinator of the
RMFSP. While the project operations were mainstreamed into DMFI regular activities, it was clear that the
workload was increasing and the staff strength had to expand to cope with the growing volume of activities.
Thus staff strength grew from only 4 professionals and 3 supporting staff at the launching of RMFSP 11
professionals and 5 supporting staff at the end of the project. The low level of staffing in DMFI at the
beginning coupled with the complex procurement procedures of the World Bank contributed to slow start in
implementing some activities of the project.
Besides, the NSC and NTF were specifically formed for legal, regulatory and supervisory frameworks for
microfinance industry in Tanzania            The multi-sectoral National Steering Committee (NSC) had high-level
representation from government bodies (both Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar) under the chairmanship of the
BOT Governor and the National Task Force (NTF) composed of the BOT, Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
MCM, Attorney General Chambers (AGM) and practitioners of the MFI were constituted.. The NSC and
NTF co-opted/ commissioned other people with specialised relevant expertise such as consultants.




                                                       - 33 -

   2.2          The Performance of the World Bank during Evolution and Implementation of the RMFSP

   The World Bank
       The World Bank group encompasses 5 development institutions including the IBRD, IDA, IFC, MIGA,
       and ICSD. has mainly participated in the RMFSP as financier through IDA window as well as providing
       technical assistance on various aspects of the project. The RMFSP coincided with the sector-related
       Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank/ IDA. The International Development Association (IDA)
       and the government of Tanzania (GOT) and entered into development credit agreement on 26th September
       1999. The GOT borrowed an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million five hundred
       thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000) or US$ 2,000,000 and issued SDR 0.45 million as
       counterpart funding for implementing the RMFSP. The financing of the RMFSP is concessionary
       attracting a low interest rate of 1-2%, a long repayment period of 40 years and a grace period of 10 years.
       The World Bank designated the Task Team Leader (TTL) who ensured compliance with World Bank's
       procurement, payment, and accounting procedures and internal control systems. On other hand, the
       Minister for finance was the representative of the GOT.

   Disbursement of the credit was planned/ allocated and actually implemented as indicated in Table 2 below.

                             Table 2: RMFSP: Analysis of Approved Budget Vs Actual
                  Allocation and Disbursement Resources from the World Bank (US$ and SDR)




S/no         Disbursement       Allocation   Allocation Component /     Actual /  Variation       Total      Net Balance
                                 in SDR        in US$       Total        total                Disbursement        US$
                                                          Allocation   Allocation                  US$
      1Office Equipment,            120,000     160,000         8.00%        6.8%      -1.2%         136,429     23,571.00
        Furniture & Motor
        Vehicles (C4)
      2Consultancy Services         524,094     698,791        34.94%       30.4%      -4.6%         607,102     91,689.00
        (C2, 3, &5)
     3 Training, Workshops,         545,906     727,876        36.39%       34.9%      -1.4%         698,891 28,98
        Study tours &                                                                                          5.00
        Conferences (C1, 5)
     4 Incremental Operating        50,000.       66,667        3.33%    0.4%          -3.0%           7,596 59,07
        costs                                                                                                  1.00
     5 Refund of Project            115,000     153,333         7.67%        5.1%      -2.6%         101,525 51,80
        Preparation Advance                                                                                    8.00
        (C6)
      6Unallocated                  145,000193,333              9.67%        0.0%      -9.7%               0 193,333.00
        Totals                    1,500,0002,000,000            100.%       77.6%     -22.4%       1,551,543    448,457.00


                           Note: Exchange rate I SDR=1.47053US$. C=RMFSP Component
                    Source: Bank of Tanzania: RMFSP Financial Statements, 31st December 2004.

   Table 2 indicates that an amount of US$ 1,551,543 had been disbursed and utilised as at the end of the
   project. The project financing arrangements permitted co-financing of some activities by other donors. This
   spirit of inclusivity gave comfort to the other donors and it enabled DMFI to co-finance a number of activities.
   This accounts, in part, for fact that at the end of the project in December 2004 there was some unutilised/



                                                           - 34 -

undisbursed portion (about 22%) of the total credit allocation. However, at the time of evaluation in April
2005 all the planned project activities had been implemented successfully. In general, actual disbursement of
resources was consistent with planned allocations and the project components were implemented according to
plan.

At the end of the project, the DMFI had attained extensive experience with IDA procurement procedures. At
the beginning special training was given to a member of staff on IDA procurement procedures. In addition, a
Procurement Officer was stationed at the WB country office who would handle all consultant procurement
clearances of up to US$500,000. However, coping with what were seen as complex procurement procedures
took time and effort by the DMFI. In future, in the spirit of the Rome Declaration (2003) and the Paris
Declaration (2005), the World Bank/IDA should make effort to align its procurement procedures to national
procurement procedures so that undue efforts do not have to be spent learning new procedures associated with
projects like this one.

2.3          The Assessment of the RMFSP Objectives, Design, Implementation and Operational
             Experience

Overall, the study team found that the RMFSP was implemented successfully according to the planned
activities. The assessment of each of the five components of the RMFSP follows below.

2.3.1        Development and Adoption of National Microfinance Policy

The preparations for the development of the NMP started by organising consultative workshops for
stakeholders and parliamentarians in 1998 and 1999. These workshops were prefinanced by the BOT and
refunded by project preparation advance. In May 2000, the Cabinet approved the NMP, which the GOT
launched in February 2001. The NMP establishes a basis for the evolution of an efficient and effective
microfinance system that would serve the low-income segment of the society, and thereby contribute to broad
based economic growth and reduction of poverty in Tanzania. For instance, NMP makes appropriate provision
of financial services to smallholder farmers in agriculture and small and micro enterprises in industry and
services.

The interviews during this evaluation exercise expressed their appreciation so far on this remarkable
achievement. They view the policy as an important milestone in terms of laying the foundation for improving
the business environment in the microfinance industry in Tanzania. The NMP is one of the very few such
initiatives in Africa and to that extent it has the potential to provide useful lessons to other countries which
may be taking similar policy initiatives. The policy has laid down a critical dimension of the enabling
environment for development of micro finance in the country. One important aspect to note is that the process
was broadly participatory, involving a wide spectrum of stakeholders including  the policy makers;
practitioners such as commercial banks, community banks and NGOs operating the microfinance industry;
and donors.

The approval of NMP was followed by promotion of sustainable operations and improved coordination of
government and donor activities in the sector. Stakeholders reviewed the action plan for policy implementation
strategy during the second annual conference in December 2002. BOT continued to collaborate with
stakeholders on the implementation of the policy through consultations and by making presentations at
different forums.




                                                        - 35 -

2.3.2        Development of an Appropriate Legal, Regulatory and Supervisory Framework for
             Microfinance Operations in Tanzania

The objective of the assignment was to review current financial sector regulations and propose appropriate
legal and regulatory framework as well as the supervisory arrangements for the MF industry. A bill to amend
relevant financial laws was passed by Parliament in February 2003 and the new Financial Laws Act, 2003
incorporating the amendments of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act 1991, The Banking of Tanzania
Act 1995, and The Cooperative Societies Act 1991, was assented by the President of the United Republic of
Tanzania on 5th of April 2003.

In addition, the development of appropriate regulatory (non-prudential) frameworks to accommodate the legal
changes was implemented by the RMFSP. The formulated regulations include the Microfinance Companies
and Micro-credit Activities Regulations (2005), Financial Cooperative Societies Regulations (2005), Savings
and Credit Cooperative Societies Regulations (2005), Internal and Internal Audit Regulations (2005) and Best
practice regulations that are drafted to govern NGOs operations       The MOF would be required to accredit
the Microcredit NGOs such as Pride Tanzania, FINCA, etc. . The National Steering committee (NSC) had
approved the entire lot of the regulations in June 2004, cleared by the Minister for Finance in July 2004 and
submitted to the AG chambers for vetting before being gazetted
     DMFI reported that government had issued the GN for publication by Government Printer in the 25th
     March 2005 gazette. . The Minister of Cooperatives and Marketing has received the Savings and Credit
     Cooperative Societies Regulations (2005) for clearance.

The RMFSP has reviewed and developed the supervisory framework for the microfinance sector that focus on
improved microfinance innovations, compliance, and control mechanisms. The supervisory frameworks
include additions to the Examination Manual of Bank of Tanzania, Manual for Off-Site Supervision and Early
Warning System of Bank of Tanzania, the Handbook for Inspection of Cooperative Societies and Guidelines
for Evaluation of NGOs engaged in Microcredit activities.

It is anticipated that the legal, regulatory and supervisory frameworks will contribute to improving supervision
of banks and MFIs as well as promoting governance and performance of the MFIs. For instance, the interview
with NBAA
     The National Board of Accountants and Auditors. revealed that it would incorporate the regulations into
     the Tanzania Financial Accounting Standards guiding finance and microfinance institutions.

In the interviews that the study team carried out, it was appreciated that the work of this component was
participatory with the National Task Force with wide representation of stakeholders, to review and propose the
legal, regulatory and supervisory framework and the National Steering Committee appointed to oversee the
work of the Task Force. However, three concerns were also expressed. First, the implementation of the
regulatory and supervisory framework component of the project was delayed mainly due to delayed
procurement of the consultant. The appointment of the consultant for the assignment on the regulatory and
supervisory framework was delayed partly because negotiations with the consultant who had ranked first
failed. The problem has been attributed to the imbalance between the technical proposal and the financial
proposal as dictated by the formula which was provided by the World bank procedures. The delay was
accentuated by the complex procurement procedures involving at least application for "no objection" in at least
four stages. Second, some of the stakeholders were concerned over the delay in finalising and gazetting the
regulations for microfinance industry which has been attributed to the low capacity for this type of activity
which is new in Tanzania. Third, there was concern over the Credit concentration and other exposure limits
regulations, 2001, which is largely meant to prevent `inside lending' in the commercial banking operations.


                                                         - 36 -

Practitioners expressed their concern that application of this rule in microfinance is impinging on their
operations. Some MFIs were considering the option of seeking a waiver from the BoT, in order to meet the
demands of some of their customers. It is felt that this is more of a commercial banking rule being applied to
microfinance. This concern could also be a reflection of the low capacity of most MFI, a factor which needs
to be addressed in capacity building programmes.

2.3.3        Development of Operational Guidelines providing Standards for Government and Donor
             Support into the Micro Finance Sector (Banks, NGOs, Cooperatives and Capacity Building)

The government and donors have been the main providers of public resources for supporting to microfinance
institutions. It was therefore deemed necessary to develop operational guidelines for government and donor
investments in the microfinance industry. The guidelines are meant to ensure that each government and donor
initiative maintains certain quality standards, uses a consistent set of performance indicators and focuses on
the sustainability of the initiatives. In this context, a study on this subject was commissioned to develop
operational guidelines, which are consistent with the microfinance policy             The DFC and DCDM
Consulting Limited have issued a draft report on the study commissioned to them in the course of the RMFSP
implementation.. A team of consultants was recruited to draft four sets of operational standards/guidelines,
covering (i) Banks, (ii) Cooperative financial institutions, (iii) NGOs (iv) Capacity building initiatives. The
draft guidelines, which are logically flowing from the NMP, provide for internationally accepted standards and
best practices which are also applicable in the Tanzania context.

The outcomes of the activities under this component are viewed by many stakeholders as important
achievements towards strengthening of the microfinance industry in the country. Development of the
operational guidelines for government and donor investments in the microfinance industry has prepared ground
for ensuring that support initiatives maintain certain quality standards, use consistent sets of performance
indicators and focus on ensuring sustainability. A concern was expressed that this component has not been
completed before the end of the project period. However, it was found that alternative arrangements had been
made to ensure its completion.

The completion of this component of the project and the foundation that has been put in place by
complementary components of the project is consistent with the establishment of the Financial Sector
Deepening Programme as a Trust. This is a joint effort of four donors (DFID, CIDA, SIDA and The
Netherlands) aimed at supporting the microfinance sector.

2.3.4        Capacity Building for Staff and Procurement of Motor Vehicles and Office Equipment for the
             Directorate of Microfinance (DMFI) and Cooperative Development Department (CDD) of the
             Ministry of Cooperative and Marketing (MCM)

Capacity building focused on DMFI of BOT and CDD of the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing
(MCM), which oversees the SACCOs although some members from the MOF and MFIs benefited, to a lesser
extent, from opportunities offered under this component.      The Directorate of Micro-finance (DMFI) which
has the mandate to for coordinating rural and microfinance operations in the BOT did not have sufficient
capacity to cope with the increasing responsibilities. The major achievement of the project is the aspect of
capacity building to the DMFI staff. Under this project the 14 staff, members from the DMFI attended
various courses within the region and outside the region, which were facilitated to participate in relevant
conferences.

Capacity building in the Cooperative Development Department (CDD)              The Director of CDD is also
Registrar of the cooperatives including SACCOs. He is assisted by Assistant Registrar of Cooperatives


                                                        - 37 -

(Region level), District Cooperatives Officers and Cooperatives Officers at lower levels.
 of the MCM comprised training in specialised courses, equipment               The RMFSP procured 9 computers,
photocopier machine, printer and motor vehicle for the CDD. and technical assistance. For instance, some 12
staff members attended various specialised courses in microfinance and SACCOs operations. The staff from
CDD were facilitated by the project to attend one international conference "Paving the Way Forward for Rural
Finance" in Washington D.C. as well as to organise a regional conference on this subject. Capacity building in
MCM (CDD) was aimed at attaining the capacity to supervise and regulate SACCOs. These are expected to
be key players in microfinance in the country. Equipment and facilities for DMFI and CDD was done through
the BOT Central Tender Committee.

The courses that the staff of DMFI and CDD attended are conducted by reputable institutions in this area.
These included the Microfinance and Credit Management Training Programme in Mbabane, Swaziland, the
Microfinance Training Program in Boulder (Colorado, USA); the Financial Institutions for Private Enterprise
Development (FIPED) at Harvard College in Boston (USA); and the Micro-enterprise development course in
Southern New Hampshire (USA). The staff of BOT and CDD were also facilitated to attend various
international conferences and workshops on rural and Microfinance. These training courses, technical
workshops and conferences have been quite useful in enhancing the understanding of the rural and
microfinance industry within the DMFI.

Consultation with various stakeholders has expressed three concerns. First, concern has been expressed that
most of capacity building initiatives have been placed in the BOT (DMFI) rather than in MFIs. In our
opinion, what was done is consistent with the project design which aimed to start with capacity building
primarily in DMFI and CDD rather than MFIs. Second, the initiatives taken to build the capacity of the
regulating bodies, notably BOT and MCM omitted one important player, the Ministry of Finance (MOF). It is
recommended that in the next phase matters of micro finance should be given a higher profile in MOF and
capacity to coordinate implementation of the NMP should be built inside the MOF.               Third, although
stakeholders have appreciated the approach taken in paying considerable attention to institutional capacity
building, concern was expressed that implementation of this component was delayed because it took time to
identify some tailor made training opportunities that would cater for the specific needs of CDD.

Tracking and analysis of the MF industry was done by assigning Micro Banking Bulletin (MBB) (later known
as MIX consultant) to set up a data collection and performance benchmarking toolkit for the MF industry in
Tanzania. A consultant was provided to prepare DMFI staff, by providing mentoring and training services
with a view to upgrading their skills in tracking and analysis of the MF industry. The target for putting in
place a tracking and analysis system was not met in the planned time because of delayed effective date of the
project and delayed recruitment of staff and an appropriate consultant. The activity was successfully
implemented in the end. The installation of this tool would enable DMFI to follow more closely the
development of MF activities in the country.        Benchmarking was performed to adapt the toolkit to the
specific conditions of Tanzania. The tool kit had been designed initially for monitoring associations' members
so it had to be adapted to the needs of BOT which had the mandate to monitor the whole microfinance
industry.

According to the Aide Memoire of December 17, 2004 in July 2002 DMFI carried out a national survey for
the purpose of establishing a directory and the survey found 665 microfinance service providers (8 banks, 29
NGOs and 617 SACCOs). The Aide Memoire proceded to point out that with the establishment the toolkit
DMFI was able to collect, input and analyse information on 24 MFIs including banks, NGOs and SACCOs.
In the end, for lack of adequate information only 7 MFIs could be assessed fully. This assessment showed that
the five largest direct providers of MF services to low income clients have improved their outreach,
profitability and sustainability. However, there is still a huge task ahead for the DMFI in respect of tracking


                                                        - 38 -

and analysis of the MFIs in the country considering the large numbers of MFIs which have increased since the
national survey was undertaken in July 2002.          Two challenges have been identified in establishing a
comprehensive picture of the MF industry in Tanzania. First, the many MFIs feel that they are not obliged to
provide information to the DMFI since they are not licensed by the BOT. This voluntary commitment does not
work very well where the culture of transparency has not developed. Second, the MFIs adhere to varying
standards and record keeping systems and procedures. Many MFIs do not collect, analyse the relevant data
and keep records that adhere to best practice. Generally, slow response from MFIs is attributed to poor record
keeping, lack of transparency and lack of separated accounts for multi-service NGOs and commercial banks
with a microfinance window. If the survey data obtained by DMFI is shared with TAMFI there is a possibility
that TAMFI could build on it and form a basis for providing updates on performance indicators in the future.
However, of now , at best only a partial picture of the MF sector can be provided.

During the implementation of this project, the main component of technical assistance that was provided was
meant to improve the operational efficiency of SACCOs. The assignment to develop operational guidelines and
standards for SACCOs was carried out by K-REP and the report was completed in November 2004. The
report revealed the status of SACCOs, identified gaps and recommended the way forward. The challenge for
the way forward is that the MCM will be expected to work towards filling the gaps which have been
identified in the operations, harmonise the multiplicity of approaches used, improve product range and building
the professional capacity to cope with the policy, regulatory and supervisory requirements as well as
governance.     The capacity for financial management, modernising the operations, management information
systems and code of conduct that is consistent with good governance will also need to be addressed.

2.3.5       Enhancing Microfinance Knowledge and Skills

The RMFSP facilitated stakeholders to acquire knowledge and skills in microfinance by providing exposure to
information on international practice and other best practices. This knowledge was imparted through various
workshops and conferences, which generated knowledge on the operations of the microfinance industry in
various countries.

(a)Technical Workshops

Among others, two technical workshops were organised on specialised subject areas. One workshop of May
2002 imparted knowledge and skills on Operational Risk Management and Auditing of Microfinance
(ORMAM). It targeted practising accountants and auditors in various micro financial institutions in Tanzania.
The other workshop was organised in October 2002 on Business Planning and Financial Modelling for
Microfinance Institutions (BPFMMI) based on the CGAP model. Technical workshops to disseminate research
findings and technical handbooks prepared by CGAP had been planned to be undertaken bi-annually from
September 2000. This target was not met because of changes in CGAP policy and the delayed clarification
from IDA of the implication of this change for conducting of the technical workshops. Among the areas which
would be covered in the technical workshops are: business planning, financial modeling, accounting and
auditing and setting of standards. It targeted MFIs management by providing useful inputs in the preparation
of achievable business plan and financial models for the respective microfinance institutions. These technical
workshops have been rated as useful in having imparted practical knowledge and skills to practitioners of the
microfinance industry in Tanzania.

(b)The Annual National Conferences on Microfinance

The RMFSP facilitated the organisation of three annual conferences on microfinance. Four annual conferences
were supposed to be held under the project. In practice, three annual conferences were held in March 2001, in


                                                        - 39 -

December 2002 and in March 2004. The Annual conferences had been expected to start in November 2000
but implementation was delayed because of financial constraints. Overall, these annual conferences drew
NMP's implementation consensus, commitment and strategies by stakeholders who had actively participated in
its formulation on the way forward in developing the microfinance industry within the policy framework. They
provided wide knowledge and skills derived from the rich experience and lessons drawn from microfinance
practices in the country as well as international experiences. The exposure to best practices in recent years and
international experience has demonstrated that micro finance is viable commercially. This is an important
message to Tanzania, a country in which micro finance is expected to occupy an important place in the set up
of the system of delivering financial services in the country.

2.4         The Determination of the Relevance, Effectiveness, Efficiency, Sustainability and Impact of
            the RMFSP

The project has been assessed in terms of relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, sustainability and impact based
on interviews with various stakeholders coupled with overall assessment by the consultants.

2.4.1       The Relevance of the RMFSP

RMFSP is relevant to the current concerns over poverty reduction and broad based growth as reflected in key
government policy and strategy documents. In particular, it is consistent with concerns expressed in Tanzania
Vision 2025 (1998), National Poverty Eradication Strategy (1997), Tanzania Assistance Strategy (TAS),
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2002), and National Strategy on Growth and Reduction of Poverty -
MKUKUTA (2004). It is also consistent and complementary to the SME policy and the economic
empowerment policy.      Overall, based on the field interviews, the relevance of the RMFSP is rated as
substantial as shown in Table 3 below.




                 Table 3: The Summary of Evaluation Results of the RMFSP Components
                                     Relevance      Effectivenes   Efficiency     Impact        Sustainabilit
                                                         s                                            y
     C1: National Microfinance      High           High            High         High           High Likely
     Policy                                                                     Likely
     C2:               Regulatory Substantial      Substantial     Substantial  Likely         Likely
     Frameworks
     C3: Operational Guidelines     Substantial    Substantial     Substantial  Likely         Likely
C4: Capacity Building              Modest          Modest          Modest       Likely         Likely
C5: Knowledge and Skills           Modest          Modest          Modest       Likely         Likely
OVERALL                             Substantia     Substantial     Substantia   Likely         Likely
                                    l                              l
                                          Source: Field Survey, 2005

2.4.2       The Effectiveness of the RMFSP

The RMFSP has performed most of its intended activities and achieved its objectives. The overall effectiveness
is rated as substantial with further details available on Table 3 above.




                                                        - 40 -

2.4.3       The Efficiency of the RMFSP

The RMFSP objectives have been consistent and reinforcing each other. The various components of the
projects are internally consistent. The resources allocated for various activities in the project were spent
according to plan and achieved what they were meant to achieve. The audit and project reports revealed that
the credit was utilised for eligible expenditures. In addition, by developing capacity in DMFI, duplication of
effort within government departments in matters of microfinance has been reduced most likely resulting in
reduced transaction costs. The overall efficiency is rated as substantial (see Table 3).

2.4.4       The Sustainability of the RMFSP

The RMFSP's benefits are generally likely to be sustainable overtime considering that the process adopted was
largely participatory and ownership was high with the NSC, NTF and the secretariat at DMFI managing the
process. Its project activities and outputs including the reviews of the microfinance policy, legal, regulatory
and supervisory frameworks and guidelines were undertaken with participation and ownership observed. This
is an important determinant of sustainability. Financially, the fact that the project was mainstreamed in the
structures of BOT points towards sustainability even after the project has ended. Overall, the RMFSP's
activities and outputs are likely to be sustainable (see Table 3). Recent developments in support for the
microfinancial sector are encouraging. Four donors led by DFID                  Others are CIDA, SIDA and The
Netherlands (DANIDA is on its way to joining) have formed the Financial Sector Deepening Trust which will
be supporting financing of MFIs. Their support is expected to enhance sustainability of the microfinance
activities by increasing retailing capacity of MFIs, supporting their transformation to cope with regulatory and
supervisory requirements among other requirements, supporting capacity building of other service providers in
the microfinance sector and encouraging the developments of linkages with the commercial banks and other
financial institutions. The chances of sustainability would be enhanced even further if further a step is taken to
coordinate with the activities in the Financial Sector Assessment Programme.

2.4.5       The Impact of the RMFSP

The RMFSP has just been completed so it may be too early to measure its impact. However, there are
indications that the project has laid the foundation for impacts to be felt later in terms of enhanced access to
microfinancial services by people with small means, income generation and employment and ultimately
contribute to poverty reduction in the country.




                                                        - 41 -

Section 3:                Conclusion, LESSONS LEARNT and Recommendations

3.1         Conclusion

Overall Assessment. RMFSP is relevant to the current concerns over poverty reduction and broad based
growth as reflected in key government policy and strategy documents. The RMFSP has performed most of its
intended activities and achieved its objectives. It has issued the NMP as envisaged. The legal, regulatory and
supervisory frameworks in the gazetting process. In terms of capacity building, the RMFSP has supported
institutional capacity building by facilitating procurement of various necessary facilities. It has also enhanced
human capacities through training of staff in both the BOT (DMFI) and MCM (CDD). The workshops/
conference and training seminars facilitated both the private and public sectors stakeholders to acquire
knowledge and skills in microfinancing. The RMFSP objectives have been consistent and reinforcing each
other. The various components of the projects are internally consistent. The resources allocated for various
activities in the project were spent according to plan and achieved what they were meant to achieve as
evidenced by the audit and project reports. The RMFSP's benefits are generally likely to be sustainable
overtime considering that the process adopted was largely participatory and ownership was high.. In addition,
the RMFSP has focused on institutional capacity building and laying the foundation and frameworks for more
operational functions to be carried out. The fact that the main components of the RMFSP were incorporated
in BOT's corporate strategic plans is a reasonable indicator of internalisation of the project activities into the
mainstream activities of the BOT.

3.2         Lessons Learned

Complexity of Procurement Procedures could be avoided. The World Bank was found to have carried out
its responsibilities as planned except for concerns over delay in implementation of some activities that was
attributed to the complexity of the World Bank procurement procedures. In order to cope with what was seen
as complex procurement procedures special training was given to a member of staff on these new procedures.
One lesson to be learned from this experience is that project implementation would have been simplified if the
World bank/IDA had made efforts to align to the national procurement systems according to the principles
agreed in the Rome Declaration (2005) and the Paris Declaration (2005). This would have saved efforts and
resources spent learning new procedures associated with this project.




Inclusivity was Appreciated. The fact that the project financing arrangements permitted co-financing of
some activities by other donors was appreciated and should be a positive lesson for other projects of this type.
This provision showed the spirit of inclusivity and gave comfort to the other donors while it enabled DMFI to
co-finance a number of activities. It has been learned that providing for inclusivity, permitting co-financing of
project related components has enhanced cooperation of other donors in project implementation. Participation
in project design and implementation has enhanced ownership of the project outcomes by the key stakeholders,
a situation which is consistent with attaining sustainability.

Mainstreaming of project implementation in the main activities of the DMFI is a strength. The fact that
project implementation was mainstreamed into the corporate plan of the Bank of Tanzania facilitated
internalisation of the project into regular activities of the implementing institution.  The RMFSP's benefits
are likely to be sustainable overtime considering that the process adopted was not only participatory but the



                                                         - 42 -

project was mainstreamed in the structures of BOT.

Complementarity among different components is a strength. A well-prepared microfinance policy has been
completed followed by a legal and regulatory framework and operational guidelines and standards coupled
with capacity building and knowledge enhancing initiatives. Putting in place these complementary instruments
has made a major contribution towards laying the foundations of the enabling environment for development of
micro finance in the country. Ensuring complementarity among different components is a strength of this
project.

Adaptation of Best Practices and Standards. The project recognised that the microfinance industry has gone
through a major evolution in recent years. Therefore, the design of the project provided for learning from
international experience and enhancing knowledge in developments in the microfinance industry. This strength
of the project is amenable to replication in other projects.

Simplification of Procurement procedures. One lesson to be learned from this experience is that project
implementation would have been simplified if the World bank/IDA had made efforts to permit simplification of
its procedures or to align its procurement procedures to the national procurement systems.

Need for a Strong Policy Locus in Government. The study has found that much as Tanzania has a huge
potential for microfinance, the MOF which has the mandate for policy formulation and development in this
area, is rather weak. This may have contributed to some delay in getting the microfinance policy approved.
The Ministry of Finance has given little capacity to carry out responsibilities relating to policy and regulatory
issues in the area of microfinance. The lesson that has been learned is that development of policies and
regulatory frameworks requires adequate capacity of the Ministry responsible for these issues and should be
organised to give sufficient space and attention to microfinance.

3.3         Recommendations for the Way Forward

Project implementation should be mainstreamed into the activities of the implementing agency. The
project design should be part of the strategic plan of the implementing agency. This approach in project design
and implementation would facilitate internalisation and enhance ownership and sustainability..

Coordinating Funding Sources to Support Microfinance. The principal funding sources of the microfinance
has been donors and government. The initiative that several donors have taken to establish the Financial Sector
Deepening Trust should be encouraged and be broadened to incorporate all donors who are supporting the
development of microfinance sector in the country. This support should be able to increase the retail capacity
of MFIs, facilitate their transformation and support development of linkages with commercial banks. The
support for microfinance should be coordinated with developments in the Financial Sector Assessment
Programme of the second generation of financial sector reforms.

Capacity Building and Transformation of MFIs. The project has focused more on capacity building within
the DMFI and CDD of MCM. The way forward should ensure that capacity of regulating institutions is
complemented by directing capacity building to the MOF and the operators and practitioners. The
practitioners, mainly MFIs including SACCOs will need to undergo transformation in order to enable them
cope with the requirements of the microfinance policy, the legal, regulatory and supervisory framework and the
operational guidelines which have been put in place as a result of this project. Many gaps will need to be
filled, the multiplicity of approaches used will need to be harmonised, product range will need to be increased,
and the professional capacity of these practitioners will need to be raised to cope with the new developments.



                                                        - 43 -

Capacity building should cover exposure to international practices, tailor made training as well as institutional
capacity building especially updated technology and facilities. Transformation of the MFIs should also address
the needed capacity building in financial management, modernising the operations, management information
systems and development of a code of ethics which is consistent with good governance and the approved
regulatory and supervisory framework. In the area of accounting, MFIs should be assisted to cope with the
new international accounting standards (with reference to the International Accounting Standards Board-UK
and International Federation of Accounting- New York) which have been adopted by NBAA. These need to be
adapted to specific conditions of Tanzania guided by the realities of Tanzania.




Aligning Procurement Procedures to National Procedures. The need to align donor systems to national
systems is a principle that has now been agreed upon as expressed in the Rome Declaration (2003) and the
Paris Declaration (2005). In future the World Bank should make the necessary adjustments to accommodate
the principles of Rome and Paris conventions and align its procedures to national procedures.

In the era of globalisation it is important to build in mechanisms of learning and knowledge generation in
project activities. The design of projects should recognise that the many industries are going through
considerable changes and provide for learning from international experience and enhancing knowledge in
developments in the respective sectors. The government has to regularly initiate the process of reviewing and
harmonising the existing frameworks in the microfinance industry in Tanzania taking on board new
developments internationally and unfolding lessons.

Raising the Institutional Profile for Microfinance Policy. It is recommended that a microfinance unit be
established within the MOF to       oversee policy and regulatory matters relating to microfinance within
government and in the whole country. This unit would be responsible for policy formulation and initiating
periodic review of policies as need arises largely based on feed backs from the BOT and MCM who will be
coordinating policy implementation on the ground. It would also initiate and coordinate the review and timely
gazetting processes of newly issued microfinance policy, strategy, legal and regulatory frameworks enforced
by mandated entities including the MCM (CDD), BOT (DMFI), and others. In addition, it would be a focal
point within the government ministries; departments and agencies while the Bank of Tanzania (especially the
Directorate of Microfinance) would continue to carry out its usual technical roles of regulation, guidance,
inspection and supervision of the microfinance institutions.




                                                       - 44 -

                                               References

ESRF, Project Implementation Plan for Rural and Microfinance Service Project, 1999.

Bank of Tanzania, Corporate Plans 1998/9-2002/3 and 2003/4-2007/8.

Bank of Tanzania, The Annual National Conferences on Microfinance (Various Years).

Bank of Tanzania, The revised two year work plan for Rural and Micro financial Services Project (RMFSP),
January 2003 to December 2004.

Bank of Tanzania, Quarterly Progress Reports, Various Years, 2000-2004.

Bank of Tanzania, Implementation Progress Report, January to December 2003.

United Republic of Tanzania and International Development Association, Development Credit
Association-Rural and Micro-financial Services Project, 1999.

The World Bank, Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit for a Rural and Micro-financial Services
Project, 1999.

Bank of Tanzania, Draft Report on Financial and Operational Guidelines and Standards for SACCOS in
Tanzania, (Drafted through consultancy by K-REP Advisory Services Limited), 2004.

Bank of Tanzania, Draft Report on Operational Guidelines for Government and Donor Support to the
Microfinance Sector (Drafted through consultancy by DFC and DCDM Consulting Limited), 2004.

Bank of Tanzania, Minutes of the Task Force on Review of the Legal, Regulatory and Supervisory
Framework for Microfinance, 2002 and 2004.

Bank of Tanzania and World Bank. Tanzania Rural and Microfinancial Services Project (RMFSP)- Cr. 3278.
Aide Memoire November 17, 2004.




                                               ANNEXES

Annex 1: The List of Persons Interviewed

A: Government
1. Mr. J. Burretta -       Desk Officer-World Bank, Ministry of Finance

2. Mr. Gray Mgonja         -       Senior Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance and member of the
Steering Committee

3. Dr. A. Kashuliza        -       Director, Ministry of Cooperatives and Markets




                                                    - 45 -

4. Mr. Julian Raphael     -      Principal Secretary Ministry of Finance- Zanzibar and member of the
Steering Committee

B: Members of the National Task Force on Legal and Regulatory Framework
5. Mr. Fredrick Werema    -      Director of Constitutional Affairs, Attorney General Chambers
6. Mr. Mohamed Muya       -      Assistant Director (Financial Services), Ministry of Cooperatives and
Marketing
7. Mr. John Lwande        -      Chief of Microfinance, NMB and member of Task Force
8. Mr. S.P. Masaki        -      Microfinance Manager, CRDB and member of Task Force
9. Ms. Joyce Hamisi       -      Chairperson, TAMFI and member of the Task Force

C: Bank of Tanzania
10.Mr. A. Aberra -        Senior Advisor, Bank of Tanzania

11.Ms. Grace C. Rubambey         -        Director, DMFI and Coordinator, RMFSP

12.Ms. F. Rutabanzibwa    -      Deputy Director, DMFI- Analysis and Policy

13.Mr. Harry Ndambala     -   Deputy Director, DMFI- Operations

14.Mr. Deo Assey -        Economist, DMFI

15.Mr. John Masuka        -   Economist, DMFI

D: Donors
16.Ms. Ewa Hagwall        -      Private Sector Development Officer, SIDA

17.Mr. Gerald Chauvet     -      Counselor Development, CIDA

18.Mr. A.T. Mohelle       -      Programme Coordinator, IFAD

19.Mr. Kevin Quinlan      - Programme Officer, DFID


E: Service Providers who participated in workshops
20.   Mr. Benson Momanyi                 -  Country Manager, K-REP

21.   Mr. Ludovick S.L. Utouh            -  Executive Director, NBAA

22.   Mr. Leonard Chacha                 -  Auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers

23.   Mr. Christopher Kamugisha          -  Assistant Audit Manager, Massawe, Ernst and Young

F: MFI Practitioners who participated in the technical workshops
24.   Ms. Anna Matete                    -  Region Manager, Ilala and Kisarawe, FINCA

25.   Ms. Shimimana Ntuyabaliwe          -  Branch Manager, PRIDE Tanzania

26.   Mr. E.P. Mkwawa                    -  Managing Director, DSM Community Bank



                                                    - 46 -

- 47 -

- 48 -

