Report No. PID6672
Project                          Tanzania - Rural and Micro-Financial Servicese
Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Finance
Project ID                       TZ-PE-50441
Borrower                                 Government of Tanzania
Implementing Agency              Bank of Tanzania (BOT)
Initial PID Prepared             May 15, 1998
Projected Appraisal
Date                                     September 1998
Projected Board Date             N/A for a Learning and Innovation Loan
1.      Country and Sector Background.   Tanzania, with a per capita income of
about US$140, is among the poorest countries in the world. The current project
concept is set against a background of ongoing structural adjustment and a
long history of both Government and donor involvement in schemes to promote
rural and micro financial services. Structural adjustment, and financial
sector adjustment in particular, has resulted in an overall withdrawal of
banking services from both the rural areas and smaller customers in the urban
areas as banks and other financial institutions have applied increasingly
rigorous commercial criteria to their branch networks and to the products they
offer. In addition, the removal of cooperative marketing monopolies has also
resulted in the dismantling of traditional credit routes to smallholder
farmers.
The Government has been greatly concerned by these developments and has been
seeking ways to promote the development of rural and micro-financial services
within this new environment. Unfortunately the track record of Government and
donor initiatives in Tanzania has been extremely poor by any performance
criteria. Various inconsistent and incoherent piecemeal approaches have been
attempted by numerous Government and donor agencies working, for the most
part, totally independently of each other.
2.      Project Objective.   The major objective of this project is the
development of a sustainable rural and micro-finance system with a wide
outreach to small-scale rural and urban clients throughout Tanzania. It will
seek to do this by developing a common policy framework made up of four main
elements which will provide a structure for the development activities of both
Government agencies and donors active in the sector. Tanzania is the first
country to create such a framework and as such, this approach is truly
innovative. The approach has emerged from a process of extensive research and
participatory reviews involving all the major stakeholders in the sector.
3.      Project Description.   The project will finance the development of the
common policy framwork, the four main elements of which are as follows:--
1.      An approved national policy for Rural and Micro-Finance based on



internationally recognized best practices,
2.      A modified regulatory and supervisory regime which is more appropriate
for the distinguishing features of rural and micro-finance institutions,
3.      A set of operational guidelines or standards, operationalizing principles
and best practices, for government and donors seeking to facilitate the
development of the sector, and
4.      A Government focal point to coordinate the development of the policy
framework, to coordinate government and donor activities and to learn from
various experiences in the country through rigorous monitoring and evaluation
of ongoing microfinance programs.
While modest in the scope of its activities, the project is ambitious in its
overall objective in that it is intending to transform old, entrenched
attitudes supportive of subsidized and targeted rural credit into a modern
policy framework reflecting international experience of "best practice" in
microfinance. To achieve this, the project is choosing to maximize the use of
Government agencies and personnel to support changes in their thinking by (1)
providing them with opportunities to learn about new approaches to
microfinance (training), (2) exposing them to successful examples of
microfinance (study tours) and (3) broadening learning and stakeholder
participation through workshops and seminars. Hence a continued emphasis from
PHRD through PPF to the project itself on training, study tours and workshops
all oriented towards achieving a very specific and clear set of objectives.
4.      Project Financing.   The project will amount to approximately   US$2
million and will be processed as LIL.   IDA would finance 90% of estimated
project costs (net of taxes) with the Government financing the remaining
costs.  The project will facilitate and support further investment by other
donors and private investors reaching possibly up to US$50 million over the
next three years.
5.      Project Implementation.   The Rural and Microfinance Focal Point,
established in BOT, will take the lead in project preparation and oversee
project implementation in consultation with other stakeholders, most notably
other directorates of BOT, the Cooperative Department and industry
representatives.
6.      Project Sustainability.   Sustainability has been addressed throughout the
project preparation process (1) by encouraging broad Tanzanian participation
and commitment during the development of the project concept and, (2) by
making sustainability a key measure of overall project effectiveness and
development impact.
Within the project itself, support will only be directed to Microfinance
Institutions and Microfinance Institution Service Providers on the basis of
both a business plan and performance indicators chosen to measure progress
towards sustainability. In addition, resources will be provided to strengthen
capacity for monitoring and evaluation of different initiatives in
Microfinance and to feed the results of these evaluations back to the industry
through regular conferences and workshops, thus encouraging practitioners to
build on successful experiences and to discard unsuccessful approaches.
Finally, the incentive framework built into the project will be designed in
such a way as to reward achievement of sustainability goals and to reallocate
resources away from activities which fail to move towards these goals.
7.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations.   There are three main lessons which
have been learnt as a result of previous experience in Tanzania. First, the
-2 -



previous approach using directed lines of credit was ineffective, costly,
unsustainable and of limited impact due to poor outreach. The new approach
emphasizes sustainability, distinguishes clearly between effective and
ineffective institutions, and maximizes outreach on a sustainable basis by
leveraging deposits as the source of funds for lending.
Secondly, uncoordinated initiatives, whether donor-led or Government-led,
tend to undermine each other where there is no common adherence to a mutually
agreed set of principles. The approach under this project encourages all
stakeholders to participate in the development of a common framework made up
of an agreed set of principles and based on internationally recognized best
practice as a way to maximize the impact of all Government and donor
investment in the sector.
Thirdly, experience from the joint Government/donor review mission in
September 1997 in which 13 different donors participated, indicates that there
is strong and broad-based donor interest in supporting the development of
sustainable rural and micro finance services. This project has been designed
to facilitate and leverage donor investment in the sector rather than displace
it, by using a modest level of IDA funds strategically to finance a few key
activities which will then enhance the economic and social impact of the much
larger collective contributions provided by other parties.
8.      Poverty Category.   The project has an indirect poverty focus.   The
primary beneficiaries will be the Microfinance Institutions who will gain from
strengthened business planning capacity, enhanced training and other learning
opportunities, other capacity building measures, an improved emphasis on
sustainability, and a more consistent and business-oriented relationship with
both the Government and the donor community. The ultimate beneficiaries will
be the customers of the emerging rural and microfinance institutions who enjoy
improved access to a variety of financial services specially targeted at
small-scale savers and borrowers throughout the country.
9.      Environmental Aspects.   The project, classified as Category C, will not
have any direct impact on the environment.
10.     Contact Point:           Ms. G. Rubambey
Director of Banking
P. 0. Box 2939
Dar es Salaam
Phone:   (255-51) 112703
Fax:             (255-51) 119155
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 31, 1998.
- 3 -



