Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3278 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural and Micro-Financial Services Project)
between
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 26, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3278 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 26, 1999, between THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
Page  2
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BOT" means the Bank of Tanzania, which is the Central Bank 
of the Borrower, established pursuant to the Borrower's Bank of Tanzania 
Act of 1995;
(b)
"CGAP" means the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest;
(c)
"Donors" means any governmental or multi-lateral agencies 
from whom the Borrower has obtained or intends to obtain grants or loans 
to assist in supporting its rural and micro finance sector;
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower which 
commences on July 1 in each year;
(e)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan referred to in 
paragraph A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Implementation Plan;
(f)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter, 
dated July 14, 1998 from the Association to the Borrower; and
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BOT on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
Page  3
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 
2009 and ending April 1, 2039. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 1, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
Page  4
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of  America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through BOT with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial and 
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the 
sustainability of Project activities; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  5
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or 
Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure or Project Management 
Reports submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
Page  6
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association the Project 
Implementation Plan in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(b)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association a work 
program, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, for the 
activities to be carried out during the first twelve months after the 
Effective Date.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
Telex:
TREASURY
41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  7
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Daniel N. Yona
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Office equipment, 
    120,000
100% of foreign
furniture and
expenditures and
vehicles
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’
    570,000
100% 
services
(3)
Training, including 
    500,000
100%
workshops, study tours 
and conferences
(4)
Incremental operating
     50,000
50%
costs
(5)
Refunding of
    115,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) 
of
Advance
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    145,000
TOTAL
  1,500,000 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
(c)
“Incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
Page  8
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision 
costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service 
and staff of BOT.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for goods under 
contracts costing less than $20,000 equivalent each, for consultant firms 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each and for 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $25,000 
equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to develop a sustainable rural and 
micro-finance system with wide outreach in the territory of the Borrower, 
through: (i) developing a common policy framework for the rural and 
micro-finance industry; and (ii) increasing the level of knowledge and 
skills within the sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Development and Adoption of a National Micro-finance Policy
Preparation of a national policy for rural and micro-finance, 
including organization of consultative workshops for stakeholders and 
parliamentarians.
Part B:
Legal, Regulatory and Supervisory Framework for 
Micro-finance
1.
Carrying out a review of the legal, regulatory and supervisory 
framework for rural and micro-finance lending, including organization of 
consultative workshops for stakeholders.
2.
Preparation of recommendations for revisions to relevant 
legislation and regulations.
Part C:
Rural and Micro-finance Operational Framework
Preparation of operational guidelines to be used by the Borrower 
and Donors in planning and implementing rural and micro-finance support 
activities.
Part D:
Micro-finance Coordination
Strengthening the Borrowers’ capacity to coordinate micro-finance 
support activities by the Borrower or Donors and to monitor and evaluate 
developments in the micro-finance sector, through the provision of 
technical advisory services, operational support and office and other 
equipment.
Part E:
Micro-finance Industry Knowledge and Skills
1.
Carrying out of bi-annual workshops to disseminate research work 
and technical handbooks prepared by CGAP.
2.
Carrying out annual conferences to expose stakeholders to 
Page  9
international developments and experiences in rural and micro-finance 
sectors.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $160,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles may be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services 
Organization of the United Nations in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
Page  10
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost 
more than $20,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999, subject to the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants for services estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more, the 
Page  11
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2  (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:
Implementation Plan and Work Programs
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association, an implementation 
plan for the Project setting out: (i) an implementation schedule for the 
Project; (ii) details of all procurement and disbursement arrangements 
under the Project; (iii) performance indicators for the Project; and (iv) 
such other administrative, financial and organizational arrangements as 
shall be required; and
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with the procedures set 
out in the Project Implementation Plan, and not, except as the 
Association may otherwise agree, amend or waive any provision thereof.
2.
The Borrower shall: (i) not less than three months before the 
beginning of each Fiscal Year, furnish to the Association for approval 
the draft annual work plan for the Project for such Fiscal Year; and (ii) 
by July 1 of each Fiscal Year, furnish to the Association the final 
annual work plan acceptable to the Association for such Fiscal Year; and 
(iii) carry out the activities for the Fiscal Year in question on the 
basis of such work plan.
Part B:
Institutional Arrangements
The Directorate of Micro-finance in BOT shall be responsible for 
overall Project coordination and implementation.
Part C:
Mid Term Review
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 
2000, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
Page  12
(c)
review with the Association, by February 28, 2001, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), 
(3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 300,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
Page  13
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
Page  14
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
