RESTRICTED
FiLE    C O                 RES  ICT 
COPI zJ  LReport No. p-549
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
MALAYSIA
FOR THE
KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 29, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
MALAYSIA FOR THE
KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $10 million to
Malaysia.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Kemubu project, located in the State of Kelantan in northeast
Malaya, is the second large irrigation scheme to be implemented during the
First Malaysia Plan period. In November 1965, the Bank made a loan of $45
million for the large Muda Irrigation project in northwest Malaysia. This
project is proceeding satisfactorily. Together, these two projects account
for almost three-quarters of Malaysia's current irrigation program. The
application of the Government for the proposed loan was received by the
Bank in September 1965 and appraised in the field in February 1966. The
project was subsequently slightly delayed by some redesign work.
3.        The negotiations for the proposed loan were concluded on February
24, 1967.  The Borrower's negotiating team was led by Mr. Rastam bin Abdul
Haci, Deputy Under-Secretary of the Treasury, and included a representative
of the State of Kelantan. The terms and conditions of the proposed loan
are essentially the same as those of the Muda Project Loan.
4.        The proposed loan would be the sixth to Malaysia. Particulars of
the previous five loans are given in the table below, which also includes a
loan made to the Public Utilities Board of Singapore under the guarantee of
Malaysia, at a time when Singapore was still a part of Malaysia.



-2-
.'mount
iIet of      Amount
Loan                                            Cancel-    Undisbursed
Year   No.          Borrower         Purpose         lations     on April 30
1958  210-MA  Central Electricity
Board              Electric Power      28.6           nil
1963  348-MA Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance
Limited         Industrial Finance  8.0            3.1
1963  350-MA  Central Electricity
Board              Electric Power      51.9          15.6
1964  405--MA PUB - Singapore      Water Supply         6.8           2.7
1965  434HA   Government of Ma-
laysia             Irrigation          45.0          42.5
1966  458-MA National Electricity
Board              Electric Power      37.0          34.6
Total (less cancellation)                        177.3
Of which has been repaid                          3.5
Total now outstanding                            173.8
Amount sold                  8.8
Of which has been repaid   2.0                   6.8
Total now held by Bank                         167.0
Total undisbursed                                              98.5
5.        The rate of disbursements under the previous loans is roughly
in line with expectations with the exception of Loan 348-MA made to the
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance, Limited. Disbursements under
the latter have been slower than expected, but the uncommitted balance
should be utilised within the next six months.
6.        IFC has made two equity investments and two loans.   Investments
comprise $818,000 in MIDFL in conjunction withl Loan 388-MA, and $1,016,000
in Malayawata Steel Ltd. Loans comprise $2,451,000 also to Malayawata
Stee' and $1,560,000 for a cement plant.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
7.        BorroTer:                 Malaysia.
Amount:                   Equivalent in various currencies of
US$10 million.
Purpose:                  The purpose of the Project is to
increase irrigation capacity in the
State of Kelantan in northeastern
Malaysia so that an area of about
47,000 acres can be doublecropped.
Term:                     25 years including 5 years' grace
period.
Amortization:             To be repaid in 41 installments,
commencing on August 1, 1972, and
ending on August 1, 1992.
Interest Rate:            6% per annum.
Commitment Charge:        3/8 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
appraisal report entitled, "Kemubu Irrigation Project, Malaysia"' (TO-578a).
9.        Agricultural production represents about 34% of Malaysia's GDP
and the agricultural products about 60-65% of the total exports. However,
the food import bill is heavy and there is a pressing need to produce more
basic foods domestically, especially rice, to meet the needs of the rapidly
growing population and to curtail imports.  This project will help meet
that need.
10.       Construction of the project will be carried out by the Drainage
and Irrigation Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
(DID) with the assistance of consultants.  The DID was established in 1932
to develop and administer the water resources of Malaysia. It has suc-
cessfully carried out irrigation developments totalling 330,000 acres and
is currently satisfactorily carrying out a further 280,000-acre develop-
ment including the Muda River Irrigation Scheme for which the Bank made a
loan in 1965.
11.       The project for which the loan would be made comprises the con-
struction of the three diversion dams, a pumping plant, four main canals,
and ancillary distribution and drainage systems to provide water for



- 4 -
doublecropping of paddy on an area of 47,000 acres. Of the project area,
about 8,000 acres are at present served by irrigation systems, which, how-
ever, supply water only for a single crop of paddy per year. The remainder
of the project area is entirely dependent on rainfall. On full development
of doublecropping in the project area, the project should enable farmers to
triple rice yields per acre and more than double their cash income.   The
projected rate of return to the economy is estimated to be about 13% and im-
port savings resulting from the project should be approximately M$23 million
per year.
12.       To reap these benefits, the Federal Government and the State
Government of Kelantan will have to provide adequate supporting services and
appropriate incentives to the farmers in the Project Area. Malaysia has un-
dertaken to improve the extension services, including agricultural research
and the supply of seeds, fertilizers and farm machinery. Assurances have
also been obtained from Malaysia on strengthening the agricultural credit
system in the project area. Complementary assurances have been obtained
from the State of Kelantan regarding matters which are within their con-
stitutional power. Accordingly, the State has undertaken to expand extension
services. It will also increase water rates and land taxes so as to ensure
the recovery from farmers of the operation and maintenance costs of the pro-
ject, and, to the extent practicable, of the investment in the project. At
the same time, the State will also ensure that water charges and land taxes
will be assessed and shared between landowners and tenants so that tenant
cultivators will have an incentive to make best use of irrigation water.
13.       The proposed loan of US$10 million would cover the foreign exchange
portion of the total project cost, together with interest during construction,
and would thus finance about 55% of the total cost of the project.   Purchases
oci the major imported items and the awarding of all major construction con-
tracts will be made through international competitive bidding.   All other
procurement, except for petty items, will be made through local competitive
bidding.
PART IV - LErGAL INSTRUMIENT AND AUTHORITY
14.       The Draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, together
with three Draft Supplementary Letters (relating to the assurances mentioned
in Paragraph 11 above), and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed separately.
PART V - ECONOMIC SITUATION
15.       An economic report on Malaysia (AS-127a) dated May 19, 1967, is
being distributed separately.



16.       The progress of the Malaysian economy continues to be satisfactory,
and in recent years growth in the value of output and exports has exceeded
forecast expectations despite adverse trends in the price of rubber, the main
export coimmodity. The surge in the development effort after 1960 succeeded
in raising the investment rate from 15 to 18% of GNP. Although the develop-
ment program was generally well-conceived, and suitable as a basis for future
growth, this increase in the investment added substantially to the public
sectorts financial burdens. On top of this came new responsibilities resul-
ting from the formation of Malaysia - transfers of resources to the new
Borneo States to augment development there, and increased defence spending
associated with the expanded territory and Indonesian hostility.
17.       The export prospects for 1967 and the next few years are less
favourable than in the past, and this is aggravating the public finance prob-
lem and tending to increase the size of the balance of payments deficit. The
deficit is still small and Malaysia's reserve position is strong with foreign
exchange holdings equivalent to about nine months' imports. Nevertheless, if
investment requirements are to be met without excessive use of reserves, im-
provements in economic performance are necessary - especially fiscal improve-
ment and greater effectiveness in making use of available foreign financing.
There is a need to curb the rate of increase in current spending, to make
some further revenue efforts to increase public savings and to reduce the
administrative and technical difficulties in the way of arranging foreign
financing for development. These problems will be discussed at a Malaysian
Consultative Group meeting to be held later this year. Despite these prob-
lems, Malaysia's economic prospects are favourable and its debt service bur-
den is low - less than 2% of external earnings. It is well able to assume
a significant increase in external indebtedness.
PART VI - COIFPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
18.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the require-
ments of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
19.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Malaysia (Kemubu Irrigation Project) in
the amount of the equivalent of U.S.$10,000,000.



RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Malaysia in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million United
States dollars (US$10,000,000) to mature on and prior to
August 1, 1992, to bear interest at the rate of six percent
(6%) per annum and to be upon such other terms and conditions
as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Kemubu
Irrigation Project) between Malaysia and the Bank, which has
been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Washington, D.C.                                    By S. R. Cope
May 29, 1967



