C%CU'LAUNG DOPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS ISK               CONFIDENTIAL
TO REPOTS DESKReport No.796-MA
MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
COMPLETION REPORT
June 15, 1975
This report was prepared at the reouest of the Government of Malaysia.The views
and recommendations contained in the report are those of the authors rather than
those of the World Bank Group. The Government of Malaysia and the authors are
responsible for the release and distribution of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             =    Ringgit (M$) 2.30 /a
M$1.00              '    US$0.43
US$1 million        =    M$2,300,000
M$1 million         =    US$435,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM) /b
1 meter (m)                   =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                =    2.47 acres (ac)
1 litre (1)                   =    0.264 gallons
1 cubic meter per second      =    35.3 ft3/s (cusec)
(m3/s)
1 ton                         =    1,000 kilogram (kg)
2,205 pounds
NOTATION
Less than half the smallest unit shown
-    Nil or negligible
Not available separately but included in total
Not available
Not applicable
e    Mission estimate
/a   Approximate exchange rate in early-1975 and also used for future
currency conversions. Exchange rates for past years are given in
Annex 1.
/b   The metric system is used for the convenience of readers, even though
most previous project documentation, uses- the Imperial system. Malaysia
is in the process of converting to the metric system.



ABBREVIATIONS
AA             Agricultural Assistant
BPM            Bank Pertanian Malaysia (Agricultural Bank of Malaysia)
cif            Cost, Insurance and Freight
DID            Drainage and irrigation Division of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Rural Development (Federal); Drainage and Irriga-
tion Department (State).
DOA            Division of Agriculture of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development (Federal); Department of Agriculture
(State).
FA             Farmers' Association
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FOA            Farmers' Organization Authority
fob            Free on board
JAA            Junior Agricultural Assistant
KADA           Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority
LCC            Local Credit Center
LPN            Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara (National Paddy and Rice
Authority)
MADA           Muda Agricultural Development Authority
MARDI          Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MTC            Malaysian Tobacco Company
NTB            National Tobacco Board
pH             A measure of acidity
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
SAU            Small Agricultural Unit
SOGREAH        Socidtd Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications Hydrauliques
GLOSSARY
Gotong royong       -  Cooperative effort
Kampong             -  Village
Sungei (Sg)         -  River
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31






MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Completion Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pzage No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .. .......... .... . . . . . . .  *. ......  i - iii
I.    INTRODUCTION              ....................                  1
The Project Area                                           1
Project Preparation.p.a..*          t ...... ...* .....    1
II.    THE PROJECT ........*      .........*2
Construction History                                       3
Performance of Consultants and Contractors                 3
Operation and Maintenance              ........            4
Present Problems                 .....                     4
III.    AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT 5         ........ .....               5
Cropping Pattern, Yield and Production                     5
Agricultural Supporting Services           ....            6
Processing and Marketing                                   8
IV.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND FARM INCOME ...................           9
Economic Analysis ..........................               9
Farm Income .                                             10
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .........................          10
VI.    COST RECOVERY ..........                                       11
VII.    FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS ....      ...   ...........   ........      12
Improvements in Physical Facilities .....12
Improvements in Agricultural Supporting Services          12
Improvements in Organizational Arrangements ....          13
VIII.    LESSONS LEARNED .         ................... .. ....          14
This report is based on the findings of a project completion mission composed
of Messrs. P.W. Whitford (IBRD), R.H. Slade (FAO) and P. Judd (Consultant).
Mr. J. Goldberg assisted in the preparation of the report.



- 2 -
ANNEXES
1.   Basic Data
2.   Project Works
3.   Agriculture
4.   Organization and Management
5.   Economic Analysis
MAP
1737   Kemubu Irrigation Project



MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-HA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION; PROJECT
Completion Report
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Kemubu Irrigation Project is located in Kelantan on the
northeast coast of Peninsular Malaysia. The project area is densely
populated and the average farm size is small (1.2 ha). Paddy is the
staple crop, with rubber and tobacco being grown on the higher grotnd.
ii.       In line with its policy of attaining self-sufficiency in rice
production mainly through the construction of irrigation systems to serve
traditional rainfed paddy areas, the Government engaged consultants
between 1961 and 1965 to prepare the Kemubu Project. The project was
appraised in February, 1966 and a Loan, for US$10.0 million equivalent,
was signed in June, 1967.
iii.      The project works consist of a diesel pumping station on the
Kelantan River, a canal system to serve 19,000 ha, drainage and flood
control works,'and ancillary facilities. Quaternary canals, which serve
units of about 20 ha, were originally intended to be constructed by the
farmers. When this was found to be impracticable, quaternaries for about
40% of the area were added to the Government works.
iv.       The primary objective of the project was to achieve double
cropping of paddy in the area.   There was less attention, at appraisal and
subsequently, to yields, crops other than paddy, or the appropriate level of
on-farm development.  Physical construction of the project was completed
only slightly behind schedule and the first irrigation water was delivered
in late-1971. An extension of the closing date was necessary to complete
the quaternary canals.
v.        The final project cost was M$66 million (US$1,160/ha), 27% above
the appraisal estimate. Cost overruns were due to additional works and
to underestimates at appraisal of land acquisition and supervision costs.
vi.       The performance of the consultants (SOGREAH) appears to have
been very satisfactory. Except for some poor work early in the main.
canal contract, the performance of contractors appears to have been
reasonably' satisfactory.
vii.      The standard of project operation and maintenance is good but
the cost is high (US$52/ha), due to rapidly rising dieseline prices.
The'Kemubu Pumping Station is unable to deliver its full design discharge
and suffers from'frequent breakdowns. The system efficiency is low but steps
are being taken to improve this through rotational irrigation. The major
remaining physical problems are the need for flood mitigation on about 2,000



- ii -
ha of low-lying lands and the need for further investment in on-farm
development, to improve water control so as to reduce operating costs and
to permit higher yields and more diversified cropping.
viii.           The rate of increase of cropped area was more rapid than
forecast at appraisal and now stands at 185% but it is u,likely to reach
the target of 200% without further investment. Yields have increased at
the forecast annual rate but the values assumed for pre-project yields in
the appraisal report were much higher than actual levels for that
period. Paddy production has grown from 24,000 tons in 1967 to 77,000 in
1974 and, by 1980, is expected to reach 98,000 tons, with a net value
of production of M$27 million in constant 1974 currency values. The ex-post
economic rate of return is 10.5%, compared with 13% estimated at appraisal.
The shortfall in the rate of return is due to the fact that the anticipated
yield increases which have been achieved have been only partially due to
the project itself. Project benefits have been largely confined to the
facilitation of double-cropping.
ix.       Except for credit, the appraisal report made little mention of
agricultural supporting services. Ilowever, considerable progress has
been made, especially since the formation of five Farmers' Associations
in the area, which serve as centers for all extension, credit and farmer
training activities. Institutional credit now serves about 12% of the
farmers and the repayment record is very good. However, both extension
and credit services suffer from a lack of suitably trained field workers.
x.        The link between research and extension remains weak and there
is an urgent need to set up a task force to study some of the problems
of soil fertility and high-income crops, with a view to improving the
income potential of the area. Even with the project, farm incomes remain
low by Malaysian standards, especially for sharecroppers.    Their position
would be markedly improved by the enforcement of the Padi Cultivators
Act, which is intended to limit rents and require registration of tenancy
agreements. As almost all of the project beneficiaries were below the
national lower 40-percentile income level before the project, the social
rate of return must have been considerably higher than the (unweighted)
economic rate of return.
xi.       Even though no provision was made at the outset for the co-
ordination of engineering and agricultural supporting services, this was
rectified by the Government first by appointing a Project Coordinator
and later by establishing the Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority,
a semi-autonomous agency with responsibility for operating and improving
the irrigation system and supplying extension, credit and other services
to the farmers. The achievements of the Authority have been hampered
by a shortage of well-qualified staff.



xii.      lalaysia has carried out its obligations under the Loan Agree-
ment with due diligence, except in the mattcr of cost recovery.    None
of the measures agreed to by Malaysia and the State of Kelantan, for the
collection of water charges, an increased land tax and a special tax on
landlords, has yet been carried out.   In response to questions raised by
the Bank, the Government has taken the position that no further action
should be taken on cost recovery on the grounds that farm incomes remain
low, even with the project. Iiowever, in view of the rapidly escalating
project operating costs and the wide disparity between the incomes of
owners and tenants, it is recoimmended that the question of cost recovery
and the enforcement of the Padi. Cultivators Act again be discussed between
the Bank and Malaysian authorities.
xiii.     The major improvements required in physical facilities, flood
mitigation and on-farm development, will each require some years of study.
However, some short term improvement, such as further quaternary, andl quinary
canal construction and the dredging of river mouths, may be appropriate.
Long-term solutions to water control will depend on the development of
comprehensive plans for each irrigation-block, beginning with the areas
of most productive soil, and it is recommcnded that this be carried out
on a pilot scale by the Water Management Center proposed to be set up
in the area. The main need in agriculture is to resolve the conflicts
between research and extension workers and initiate a unified approach to
the major soil and cropping problems, to expand the present extension
and credit services to cover all the farmers in the project area and to
establish farmer groups at the grass-roots level to operate the minor
irrigation works and to act as points of contact for the extension
services.
xiv.      Despite an inadequate level of project preparation by present
day standards, the Kemubu Project is largely fulfilling the expectations
of its planners.   Mluch credit for this is due to the Government's flexible
attitude and initiatives taken in project. organization. A low economic
rate of return is, probably inherent in this type of project but it could
well be that the strongly positive income distributional benefits of
the project would have outweighed this disadvantage if it were being
appraised in the light of present day knowledge.






MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATIOU PROJECT
Completion Report
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Now that the construction phase of the Kemubu Irrigation Project
is complete, it is appropriate to evaluate the extent to which expectations
and objectives at the time the loan was made have been, or show promise
of being, achieved. It is also useful to record how the problems which
arose during project implementation were dealt with and what lessons may
be applied to other projects in Malaysia and elsewhere in the East Asia
Region. For these reasons, a project completion mission, consisting of
,Messrs. P. W. Whitford (IaBRD)  R. H. Slade (FAO) and P. Judd (Consultant)
visited Malaysia between November 18 and December 7, 1974.
The Prolect Area
1.02      The Kemubu Irrigation Project is located in the State of Kelantan
in the northeast of Peninsular Malaysia, about 650 km from Kuala Lumpur
(Map 1737). The project area occupies an alluvial plain between the
Kelantan River and the sea and is close to Kota Bharu, the capital of
Kelantan. The Kelantan Plain is densely populated and there are 22,000
farm families in the project area. The farm size distribution is narrow,
with 85% of the farms (accounting for a similar percentage of the area)
having between 0.4 and 2.0 ha of paddy land. The average farm has 0.9
ha of paddy and 0.3 ha of other crops, mainly rubber. Rubber is grown
and villages are situated on strips of higher ground interspersed with
the lower-lying paddy areas. Tobacco is being grown to an increasing
extent in Kelantan but mainly in rainfed areas outside the project area.
Proiect Preparation
1.03      Since about 1900, it has been Government policy to provide,
wherever possible, irrigation and drainage to existing paddy areas,
primarily to insure the main-season crop against losses and secondarily
to permit double cropping, where suitable perennial water supplies could
be provided.  By the early 1960's, rice imports were imposing a serious
strain on Malaysia's balance of payments and the Government decided 'to
embark gn the large-scale Muda and Kemubu Projects as a means of achiLeving
self-sufficiency in rice. World Bank assistance was sought for both
projects.
1.04      In 1961, Sir William Halcrow and Partners (UK) made a preliminary
study of the Kemubu proposal and recommended a project rather similar to
that which was eventually constructed. The Drainage and Irrigation
Division (DID) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives then engaged



French consultants, Socie'te" Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications
Hydrauliques (SOGREAlI), to undertake further studies of the project and to
prepare final designs. This work, which was confined purely to engineering
matters, was completed in 1965.
1.05      Following a brief pre-appraisal in 1965, the Bank appraised the
project in February, 1966. Loan negotiations, however, were not held
until a year later, owing to a decision by DID to use diesel rather than
electric power for the Kemubu Pumping Station. The major topics at
negotiations were cost recovery (para 6.01) and agricultural credit.
The loan, of US$10 million equivalent, was approved by the Executive
Directors on June 13, 1967 and was signed on June 15, 1967.
II. THE PROJECT
2.01      Basic data on the project is given in Annex 1 and a more
detailed description of the engineering components is included in Annex 2.
The major project works included: The Kemubu Pumping Station, with five
7 m3/s diesel driven pumps; a canal system to serve 19,000 ha; a drainage
system; a flood protection levee; three diversion dams; booster pumps;
operation and maintenance equipment and buildings. The project cost was
estimated at US$18.5 million, including US$1.3 million for interest during
construction, with a foreign exchange component of US$10.0 (54%), which
was financed by the loan.
2.02      At the time of appraisal, the Bank and the Government saw the
project mainly as a means of achieving full double cropping of paddy
in the project area. Consequently, only secondary attention was given to
potential yield increases and there was little consideration of crops
other than paddy, or of the appropriate level of on-farm development.
The appraisal report gave adequate attention to engineering matters,
except for some rather doubtful calculations of water requirements.
It also examined the consequences for the distribution of income result-
ing from the land tenure situation, as half the paddy land in the project
area is sharecropped. The appraisal report was perhaps ahead of its
time in the detail of its cost recovery proposals, including a special tax
on landlords. After much negotiation, these charges, which would have implied
a cost recovery index of 30%, were accepted by the State of Kelantan (Annex 2).
2.03      On the other hand, the appraisal report said little about the
agricultural potential of the area, the probability and extent of flooding,
the role of crops other than paddy, farmers organizations or the need to
coordinate engineering and agricultural services.



-3-
Construction History
2.04      Project construction was projected to take slightly under three
years and this target was missed by only two months, for the major works.
The first dry-season cropping took place in 1972 rather than 1971, as
envisaged at appraisal.  However, the Loan closing date was extended by
18 months, mainly to allow the completion of the quaternary canals.
At appraisal it was thought that these ditches would be dug by the farmers
themselves. Later this was recognized as infeasible, as these canals
are fairly large and require engineering design and purchased rights of
way. Therefore construction was carried out by "rural works contracts"
with the village heads. About 410 quaternaries were constructed, each
serving about 20 ha, but they cover only 40% of the project area. A
number of changes were introduced into the design of the distribution
system which tended to lower project costs or improve performance. The
most important of these were the elimination of most of the originally
proposed canal lining and the elimination of the Danan and Seligi Heiadworks
(diversion dams).
2.05      The final project cost was M$66 million (US$1,160/ha) an increase
of 27% over the appraisal estimate of M$52 million. Cost overruns resulted
from extra works added to the project (para 2.04) and to underestimates
of land acquisition and supervision costs at appraisal. The physical
contingency allowance was reasonable and omission of price contingencies
from the appraisal cost estimate was justified by events as inflation in
Malaysia was negligible during the construction period. Disbursements
for civil works were originally intended to be based on direct foreign
expenditures by contractors. However, the civil works contracts were
all won by Malaysian firms having their own equipment and thus direct
foreign expenditures were quite small. The disbursement procedure
was then changed to a percentage of total costs, representing the total
foreign exchange component.
Performance of Consultants and Contractors
2.06      SOGREAH was responsible for project planning, detailed design and
construction supervision. Their performance appears to have been very
satisfactory. Although their planning of the project can be held partly
responsible for the faults listed in paras 2.02 and 2.03, these short-
comings were partly compensated for by a design which is sufficiently
flexible to allow future improvements to be made. In the construction
phase, the consultant appears to have been alert to design improvements
and cost savings. The performance of the major contractors appears to have
been reasonably satisfactory, the only complaints being directed to Kien
Huat Co. Ltd., the canal and drainage contractor, which inadequately
supervised its workmen in the early stages.



-4-
Operation and Maintenance
2.07      Operation and maintenance (O&) of the project facilities
is good on the whole. M'loderately serious problems have occurred at the
Kemubu Pumping Station in obtaining the full design discharge and in
obtaining spare parts, following rather frequent breakdowns of the equip-
ment. These have led to late and interrupted water deliveries and have
reduced agricultural benefits. DID is discussing these problems with
the pump manufacturers. There is also a need to resurface (and possibly
upgrade) some of the O&M roads, which are open to light public traffic.
2.08      The cost of engineering O&M in 1974 for the Kemubu Area was
US$52/ha, compared to an appraisal estimate of US$30/ha. This steep
increase is largely due to the rapid rise in dieseline prices and, con-
sequently, the project engineers are examining ways to increase water
use efficiency and thus reduce pumping costs. System efficiency (under
continuous irrigation) appears to be 30-40% at present, leaving much
room for improvement, even without on-farm development. KADA plans to
introduce rotational irrigation in 1975. As well as reducing pumping costs,
rotational irrigation should reduce the peak load on the pumps and thus
lessen the frequency of breakdowns.
Present Problems
2.09      There are two areas in which major technical deficiencies are
hampering the full realization of benefits from the project: Flooding
and on-farm development. Flooding from the Kemasin and Semarak Rivers
remains a major problem for about 2,200 ha of the project area. These
problems were anticipated but perhaps underestimated at appraisal. As
farmers in the flood-prone areas regularly lose their main-season crop, the
ability to grow an off-season crop little more than restores their previous
income. Possible solutions to this problem are discussed in para 7.03.
2.10      The need for further investment in on-farm development, in
order to lower 0 & M and production costs and to improve yields, has
already been recognized by KADA. The first step in this direction was the
quaternary canal program described in para 2.04. In addition, quinary
channels along the lot boundaries have been constructed in some areas
through cooperative effort by the villagers, supervised by KADA staff.
However, these improvements cover less than 500 ha. Another ongoing
program of more dubious merit is the concrete-lining of the existing
quaternary canals to reduce maintenance costs. At US$500/ha, this
program would be impossible to justify economically.



III. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Cropping Pattern, Yield and Production
3.01      The rate of increase of cropped area has been more rapid than
forecast at appraisal but it is unlikely that the overall cropping intensity
will exceed 185% without further infrastructural investment, compared with the
200% originally forecast for the sixth year after project completion. Yields
have increased at about the rate estimated at appraisal (about 0.1 ton/ha/yr)
but the absolute pre-project yield assumed at appraisal (2.19 ton/ha) was
much higher than actual recorded levels for 1965-7 (1.23 ton/ha). Similarly,
the 1980 average yield for both soil types and seasons is now projected to
be 2.8 ton/ha, rather than the 3.4 ton/ha estimated at appraisal. The
appraisal yield estimates appear to have been based on data transferred from
elsewhere in Malaysia. The appraisal estimates also did not take into account
the low-lying "problem" soils, which account for 10% of the irrigable area,
or the fact that crop cutting results are generally about 10% above actual
farm yields. As these lower yields apply equally to the without project
situation, the effect on the project rate of return (para 4.03) is only
moderate but they do have serious implications for farm income (para 4.04).
Further details are given in Annex 3.
3.02      Paddy production has grown from 24,000 (40,500) 1/ tons in 1967
to 77,000 in 1974 and is estimated to increase further to 98,000 (117,500)
tons by 1980. The net value of production 2/ in 1974 constant prices is
estimated to have increased from M$11.0 million in 1967 to a projected
M$29.4 million in 1980.
3.03      The above conclusions are based on crop cutting tests for past
years and mission estimates for the future. While the yield sampling
methods have some deficiencies and require adjustment to harvest conditions
(Annex 3) they are much more accurate than those used in most Southeast
Asian countries. Measures of cropped area, however, are much less;
reliable but could be improved by using remote sensing. In addition,
the estimate of the area affected by low-lying problem soils should be
treated with caution.
3.04      It is valid to ask: To what extent have yield, increases under
the project been due to high-yielding varieties rather than irrigation?
Such varieties now,.account for 50% of the main-season crop and virtually
all of the off-season crop. While it is probably true that the project
1/   Figures in parentheses are appraisal estimates.
2/   Including tobacco grown in the project area. Paddy production is
evaluated on the basis of cif rice prices.



- 6 -
would not have been feasible without the development of short-duration,
non-photosensitive varieties, such varieties would have given little
benefit without the improved water control and fertilizer delivery system
introduced under the project which made double-cropping possible. Such
varieties were only very newly-developed at the time of appraisal.
Agricultural Supporting Services
3.05      The appraisal report recognized the need for improvements in
each of the major supporting services: research, extension, credit and
marketing; and such improvements were included in the Project Description
in the Loan Agreement (Annex 1). However, the covenants and supplementary
letter on these subjects were rather vaguely worded and actual developments
have gone beyond what was envisaged at appraisal, mainly because of the
establishment of Farmers' Associations.
3.06      Research - Research was originally the responsibility of the
Federal Division of Agriculture (DOA) and Kelantan operations were based
at the Lundang Experimental Station. In 1971, the Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development Institute (MARDI) took over responsibility for
research and the major research stations but not field stations such as
Lundang. Due to poor planning when MARDI was established, clashes
between MARDI and DOA personnel and disputes over the ownership of
facilities continue to this day. These problems are recognized at the
higher levels of Government and there are signs that they are being solved.
Furthermore, MARDI's Rice Research Program and the Agricultural Engineering
and Water Management Research Program, which will be created by the recently
approved Research and Extension Project (Loan 1115-MA), are expected to assist
in alleviating these disputes.
3*07      At present MARDI has no field station in Kelantan and, instead,
does experimental trials on farmers' fields, an unsatisfactory procedure
for basic research because of the lack of control. Meanwhile, DOA
retains the Lundang Station for seed production, training and demonstra-
tion. The station has little capacity for dry-season cropping and thus
for upland crop development. Due to a lack of field-level coordination,
research results concerning fertility problems are not being applied and
the DOA continues to recommend a single standard NPK fertilizer dosage
and liming of low-lying problem soils, even though MARDI has shown these
treatments to be of doubtful merit. The mission strongly recommends that,
as a first step, a standardized NP basal mix should be introduced.
3.08      Extension - Originally the responsibility of the State DOA,
extension in the project area is now provided mainly by the Farmers'
Associations (FA's) (para 3.09), with training and subject matter support
(in crop production, plant protection, etc.) available from the State
DOA. The number of field-level extension workers is too few and their
training is inadequate, especially in advising on water management and
plant protection. There are numerous unfilled vacancies and the time
of the Junior Agricultural Assistants (JAA's) attached to the FA's,
even that of the Assistant specifically charged with extension, is largely



output in JAA's from the Agricultural Institutes, it should not be
difficult to fill the present vacancies, free more staff for pure extension
activities and give them in-service training in some of the more
specialized aspects of irrigated rice production. All this could be done
at a relatively low cost, compared with the cost of infrastructural
improvements.
3.09      Farmers' Associations - Under an Act passed in 1967, FA's were
established in 1972 and 1973 in the Kemubu Project Area. Five FA's serve
Kemubu with an additional four in the other pumped irrigation areas under
KADA's jurisdiction. FA's have since been established in non-paddy
areas and it is the Government's policy to establish them in all areas
of smallholder agriculture.
3.10      The concept of an FA was derived from experience in Taiwan
and from the book "Getting Agriculture Moving" by Dr. A. T. Mosher of
the Agricultural Development Center in New York. The objective is to have
self-governing, self-financing organizations controlled by the farmers
in each locality, which would provide credit, inputs, market services and
extension advice to their members. However, the Government has recognized
that it is not possible to realize all these objectives simultaneously
and thus it has retained a good deal of control over the FA's and sub-
sidizes them, mainly by paying the salaries of the FA staff through the
KADA budget. The standard complement of staff is an Agricultural Assist-
ant, as Manager, and four or five JAA's in charge of administration,
accounting, credit, marketing and extension.
3.11      About 30% of the project area farmers are FA members and an
additional 20% belong to cooperatives, which are largely concerned with
rice milling and marketing. The FA's have concentrated on the supply of
credit and have performed well in this role (para 3.14). However, they
must use staff primarily trained in agriculture for their business opera-
tions, which are thus somewhat inefficient, while at the same time
agricultural extension is neglected (para 3.08).
3.12      Government policy is to bring all FA's and cooperatives together
under Farmers' Organizations. A Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA)
has been set up to direct and coordinate the new bodies. The FOA, rather
than KADA, would then pay the FA staff. It is planned to complete this
transition by June, 1975 for Kemubu. The advantages of this move would
be the elimination of competition and duplication of effort between the
FA's and the Cooperatives, giving a single source for each service in each
area, and the strengthening of cooperative management. Disadvantages
include the severing of the formal link between the FA's and KADA, the
danger of excessive emphasis on commercial activities at the expense of
extension, and a greater centralization of control over the FA's rather
than the decentralization (eventually to the farmers themselves) envisaged
when the FA's were established. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Devel-
opment, which now supervises the FOA, is aware of these problems and is
seriously reviewing the roles to be played by the various agencies serving
agriculture.



-8-
3.13      Credit - Following a request from the Government, the Bank sent
a mission to Malaysia in December, 1966 to evaluate the size and nature
of agricultural credit needs in Peninsular Malaysia, with special reference
to the Muda and Kemubu Projects. The mission found that the main credit
need was for production credit in paddy areas and recommended a system
whereby inputs would be supplied by local outlets, which would be
reimbursed by a Central Authority. As this report was still under review
at the time of loan negotiations, the Kemubu Loan Agreement (Section 5.11)
contains only general wording on the provision of credit.
3.14      Assistance in designing and setting up the credit system was
given by a team of consultants (Public Administration Services and Ohio
State University, USA) in 1968 and 1969. The Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM)
was established as the Central Authority, while FA's, cooperatives and
private dealers have been used as Local Credit Centers, which are
responsible for screening applications, disbursing inputs and for loan
recovery. The Kemubu credit system began in 1970, on a pilot basis and,
by 1974, was serving about 2,700 farmers, or 12% of the total. Average
seasonal credit for 1974 was M$0.4 million. The repayment record is
good, with about 95% of the credit extended being ultimately recovered,
though about 30% of repayments are late. A good deal of follow up is
required and full repayment is approached only after two or three seasons.
3.15      Credit is given at an interest rate of 8.5% per annum and loans
are normally unsecured. Collection is the responsibility of the Local
Credit Center and more stress is laid on repayments than on expanding the
number of loans made. The coupon system in use until recently led to delays
of two to three months between the application for credit and its approval
and thus the system lacked the flexibility of the traditional money lender.
A new system, whereby vouchers are issued directly by the LCC, has now
been introduced but it is too early to comment on its effectiveness.
Expansion of the credit program is limited by the capacity of the in-
adequately trained FA staff to handle it (para 3.11) and also because of
a deliberate policy of KADA and the BPM to lend only to the more credit-
worthy farmers. BPM and KADA need to address the problem of how to assist
the smallest and most indebted farmers whose need for subsidized Government
credit and the other FA services is the greatest. Further details on the
credit mechanism in the project area are given in Annex 3.
Processing and Marketing
3.16      The appraisal mission wrote:  "Government and Cooperative rice
mills have been established in the area, but because of delayed payments
from the new mills and complicated Government procedures, the farmer
appears to prefer the private mills . . . . the marketing situation is
complicated in the Kemubu area by . . . the presence of several hundred
small inefficient and illegal rice mills." (Paras 4.43 and 4.44).
This continues to be the case. Further mills have been constructed in
the public sector but these have continued to be underutilized, as the



-9-
village rice mills ("illegal" but tolerated) proliferate. Paddy drying
after the off-season crop continues to be a problem, as the only drying
facilities are at the large Government and Cooperative mills, remote
from the farmer. The mission did not attempt to analyze the Government's
decision to continue expanding public sector milling capacity, despite
the lack of demand.
IV. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND FARM INCOME
Economic Analysis
4.01      The project rate of return was recalculated using actual
construction and operating costs (including extension services and the cost
of operating the FA's) and benefits based upon recorded yields and cif
rice prices for the period 1967 to 1974 and mission yield projections and
Bank world price projections to 1980. The details are given in Annex 5. Farm
income analysis was based on actual and projected farmgate prices over the
period. The farmgate price is expected to decline in real terms by 1980, in
line with Bank projections of world market prices.
4.02      All costs and benefits were evaluated in 1974 constant price
terms (deflators used are listed in Annex 1) and, as far as possible,
taxes and subsidies were eliminated. All farm labor was evaluated at its
marginal opportunity cost, by comparing the supply of and demand for Labor
on a monthly basis. Even assuming no growth in the rural population as a
result of out-migration, there will be an ample labor supply for paddy
cultivation in Kemubu for the foreseeable future. An evaluation period
of 33 years was used (up to the year 2000), with suitable assumptions for
pump replacement and the salvage value of the project.
4.03      Under the above assumptions, the ex-post rate of return is 10.5%,
compared with 13% at appraisal. The difference is due to many factors,
including increased construction and operating costs (para 2.05), lower
yields than projected at appraisal (para 3.01), the neglect of tobacco
production (which has declined due to the project) and the costing of,
family labor at zero at appraisal. Most important has been the fact ithat
most of the yield increases which have been achieved have been independent
of either the infrastructure or organizational aspects of the projectt,
so that project benefits have been largely confined to the facilitation of
double-cropping.  The resulting rate of return shows that the project was
marginal from the national economy viewpoint but the fact that the benefits
accrued predominantly to one of the poorest groups in Malaysia (para 4.05)
indicates that the project's "social rate of return" would be much higher0



- 10 -
Farm Income
4.04      The net paddy income of the average project farmer has increased
substantially, by 500 to 600%, as a result of the project. However,
there has probably been a decline in off-farm income (which means a benefit
to the landless laborers) so that total family income has increased by 75%
(to M$1,400) for a pure tenant (sharecropper) or 165% (to M$2,400) for
an owner). Only the owner's income can be considered satisfactory in terms
of the Government's objectives for rural development. The position of
tenants continues to be unsatisfactory, due to very high rents (75% of
total costs of production). It is estimated that a tenant's 1980 income
of M$1,400 would rise to M$2,100 if the provisions of the Padi Cultivators
(Control of Rent and Security of Tenure) Act of 1967 were strictly
enforced. This Act is intended to limit rents and to require the registra-
tion of tenancy agreements. However, neither the State nor the Federal
Government seems to have much interest in interfering with the status quo.
4.05      Under pre-project conditions about 97% of the project area
families had incomes below the national 40-percentile level. Although it
is unlikely that the project has significantly improved income distri-
bution within the project area, it is clear that its national impact is
most progressive.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      There was very little consideration given at the project preparation
and appraisal stages of the form that the project management should take
or of the need to coordinate closely engineering planning with agricultural
extension and credit. The appraisal report envisaged that each agency
would play its part independently but, in 1968, the Government recognized
the weakness of this approach and appointed a generalist administrator
Project Coordinator. In 1973, the Kemubu Agricultural Development
Authority (KADA) was set up as a semi-autonomous agency responsible for
operating the irrigation system and supplying agricultural services to
the farmers. Further details are given in Annex 4.
5.02      Even though the management of Kemubu has outwardly developed
along the same lines as Muda, the achievements have been smaller, both
under the Project Coordinator and Project Authority forms of management.
These differences may be explained by the lower calibre of the personnel
appointed to Kemubu, the persistently high vacancy rate among senior
staff and the number of senior staff holding joint appointments. These
deficiencies have been largely due to political factors (Annex 4) and
there is some evidence that the imbalance is being redressed. Another
inherent problem is the small size of KADA - it is responsible for
an irrigated area only one-third that of Muda - and its consequent in-
ability to offer a wide range of specialized services or to develop



- 11 -
planning capability. This could perhaps be offset by including in KADA's
jurisdiction the rainfed areas of the Kelantan Plain or by making KADA
responsible for the proposed North Kelantan Project.
5.03      KADA's staffing level (662 for 1975) and operating budget
(M$3.6 million for 1974 or US$69/ha) are higher than for comparable projects
in Asia, but the inherent high cost of pumping water for paddy cultivation
and the ambitious targets of the FA's must be borne in mind. The forma-
tion and growth of the FA's, described in para 3.09, has been one of the
significant achievements of the project.
VI. COST RECOVERY
6.01      In a supplementary letter, dated July 24, 1967, the State of
Kelantan agreed to impose a water rate of M$15/ac (M$39.50/ha) to cover
part of the O&M cost of the system, to create a special category of land
which could be double cropped because of the project, to fix the quit
rent (land tax) for this category of land so as to recover the remaining
O&M costs and as much as practicable of the capital cost of the project
(with the proviso that other taxes might be substituted for this) and to
take steps to ensure that tenant-cultivators were not deprived of a
substantial portion of the project benefits. None of these undertakings
have been carried out. The quit rent for irrigated land was raised to
M$3/ac (M$7.41/ha) in 1970 and cannot be raised again until 1985, accord-
ing to the Constitution. No special category of double-cropped land has
been created. It is proposed to impose at some future time a water
charge of M$10/ac (M$24.70/ha) on double-cropped land but there is no
definite date for this. No steps have been taken to enforce the Padi
Cultivators Act, which lays down maximum rents and procedures for regis-
tering tenancy agreements, so as to reduce the burden on sharecroppers
(para 4.04).
6.02      These shortcomings were first pointed out by the 1973 super-
vision mission and a letter, dated November 1, 1973, asked the Malaysian
Treasury what action it intended to take for both the Kemubu and Muda
Projects. A reply, dated February 4, 1974, was received which stated,
in part, "we are satisfied with the progress made so far ... there are
certain prevailing factors that make it impossible up to now for the
authorities to levy the full water charges. The benefit of irrigatioin,
for instance, has not spread to all parts of the project area.  In   I
addition, the existence of patches of land prevent the smooth and even
flow of water . . . the income of the farmers is still below the expected
projected level ... most of the farm units are ... below economic size.
... While the income of the farmers have not substantially increased, the
current price increases have ... aggravated the situation . . . In view
of the foregoing, the Treasury considers it satisfactory the water
charges so far levied and collected by the State authorities." The
reply dealt mainly with Muda and did not address the problem of tenancy
which is crucial in Kemubu.



- 12 -
6.03      No further action was taken by the Bank on this matter, on the
grounds -that farm incomes remain low, even with the project. However, in
view of the rapidly escalating project operating costs (para 2.08) and the
findings of this report on the disparities between the incomes of owners
and tenants (para 4.04), it is recommended that the question of cost
recovery and enforcement of the Padi Cultivators Act again be discussed
between the Bank and the Malaysian authorities.
VII. FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS
Improvements in Physical Facilities
7.01      The major infrastructural improvements needed in the Kemubu Area
are on-farm development and flood mitigation. The optimum form of on-farm
development for Kemubu - the provision of ditches, drains and roads to
serve individual farms together with possible land levelling and boundary
realignment - is far from clear and could only be determined by a con-
certed, interdisciplinary effort in research and pilot studies. In the
short term, consideration should be given to increasing the number of
earthen quaternaries, discontinuing the lining program, encouraging the
construction of quinaries and minor drainage by cooperative effort, and
providing additional roads.
7.02      Over the longer term, development should proceed on the basis
of a comprehensive plan for each quaternary block, which could be implemented
in stages. Development should be directed at the Class II soil areas,
which have the best potential for productivity gains. Ways of involving
the farmers in the planning, construction and financing of on-farm works
should be sought. The research and pilot projects needed to begin such a
program could logically be undertaken by the Water Management Center, which
DID (with Japanese assistance) proposes to set up in the Kemubu area.
7.03      Solutions to flooding along the Kemasin and Semarak Rivers
(para 2.09) are being studied in a general way by DID but not with much
urgency. Detailed studies would take some years and laboratory facilities
will not become available until 1976. There is some doubt as to whether
an economic solution exists. In the short term, it might be useful to try
dredging the river mouths prior to the monsoon season, in order to allow
flood waters to escape more quickly.
Improvements in Agricultural Supporting Services
7.04      A more complete summary of needed improvements in agricultural
services is given at the end of the Annex 3. The existing seed distribu-
tion, credit and extension programs are reaching only about one-third of
the project area farmers. Improvements in these services, particularly the
extension service, could lead to substantial yield increases at low cost.



- 13 -
Extension workers should devote particular attention to water iuanagement
and plant protection and may require some specialized training in these
areas. On the better-drained Class II soils, upland crops (particularly
tobacco) could increase farm incomes, if the necessary infrastructural
improvements were also made.
7.05      The staff of the FA's require further training in business,
so that the volume of production credit might be increased and more staff
released for extension work. Alternatively, a new cadre of "Junior com-
mercial assistants" might be recruited, to handle the business activities
of the FA's. More formal links should be established between the FA's and
the DOA specialists at Lundang. The costs and benefits of establishing
Farmers' Organizations and the optimal role of the FOA should be further
assesed before the FA's are removed from KADA's jurisdiction.
7.06      Soil-fertility problems and off-season crops urgently require
sustained attention and consideration should be given to establishing
a joint task force composed of MARDI, DOA and KADA personnel, with full
access to the facilities of each organization, with the object of finding
and implementing solutions. Priority should be given to these problems
in allocating the resources to be made available to MARDI under the
proposed Bank-assisted Research and Extension Project. An interim NP
basal mix fertilizer should be recommended, as a matter of urgency.
Improvements in Organizational Arrangements
7.07      A considerable improvement in KADA's effectiveness might be
expected if the presently vacant senior posts were filled with dedicated
and experienced staff. The potential role of KADA as an area development
agency should be examined on its own merits, rather than considering it
as a "younger brother" of MADA and having the same potential.
7.08      With any program of on-farm development, and even before such
development, will come the need for farmers' organizations at the grass-
roots level. Possibly the Small Agricultural Units, which constitute
the FA's could be modified so as to be based on irrigation service units.
These farmers' groups would then be responsible for O&M of the on-farm
works and would provide a point of contact for extension, seed distribution
and other services. The elected leaders of these groups would receive some
basic agricultural training and possibly a small cash allowance for their
services in organizing the group and passing on extension advice. Maximum
use should be made of gotong royong in constructing and maintaining minor
works;



- 14 -
VIII. LESSONS LEARNED
8.01      It is instructive to note that, despite a level of project pre-
paration and appraisal that would fall far short of present day standards,
the Kemubu Project was successfully and expeditiously constructed and
is largely fulfilling the expectations of its planners. This outcome was
largely brought about by the flexibility shown by the project management
and higher levels of Government in developing project coordination and
establishing farmers' organizations and a credit system. Progress might
well have been much slower in a country with a more rigid and less able
bureaucratic system, unresponsive to initiative and tied to conventional
methods of administration. This is not to suggest that a Project Authority
is the only solution for irrigation project management but merely to point
out that decentralized decision making and an equal emphaEis on engineering
and agricultural services is needed if full project benefits are to be
obtained.
8.02      A low economic rate of return is probably inherent in this type
of project - a low-efficiency pumping scheme with a rather high capital
cost for a high water using crop. This indicates that greater attention
should have been paid during project preparation to the cropping potential
of the Kemubu area and the degree to which it is limited by soil fertility
and flooding. On the other hand, conventional economic evaluation says
nothing about the effect of the project on the national income distribution,
which, for Kemubu, was a very positive benefit. In all likelihood, the project
would have been favorably considered, even if its (unweighted) ex post rate
of return of 10.5% had been realized at appraisal, because nearly all its
beneficiaries were in the national lower 40-percentile income group.



ANNEX 1
Page l
MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Basic Data
Borrower: Malaysia
Implementing Agency: (original) Drainage and Irrigation Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (now Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Development); (later) Kemubu Agricultural Development
Authority (KADA).
Amount of Loan: US$10.0 million equivalent.
Date of Loan Signing: June 15, 1967.
Date of Loan Effectiveness: October 31, 1967.
Closing Date - Original: June 30, 1972.
- Final    : December 31, 1973.
Completion of Disbursement: January 21, 1974.
Terms of Loan: Repayment over 25 years, including a five-year grace period,
with interest at 6% per annum and a commitment charge of 0.375%
per annum on the undisbursed balance.
Amortization: Forty-one semi-annual payments, starting August 1, 1972 at
US$125,000 equivalent and ending August 1, 1992 at US$425,000
equivalent.
Exchange Rates and Price Deflators:
Year           Exchange Rate /a          Domestic Price Deflator
(M$ to US$1.00)               (1974 - 1.000)
1965                3.06                           1.354
1966                3.08                           1.349
1967                3.07                           1.341
1968                3.08                           1.331
1969                3.09                           1.341
1970                3.08                           1.320
1971                2.90                           1.300
1972                2.80                           1.270
1973                2.43                           1.145
1974                2.35                           1.000
/a   Average actual exchange rates reported by the Bank Negara Malaysia.
Conversions in the Appraisal Report and other project documents in
the period 1965-1970 are normally made at the nominal exchange rate
of M$3.00 = US$1.00.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Project Description from the Loan Agreement
1.        The purpose of the Project is so to increase irrigation capacity
in the State of Kelantan in northeastern Malaysia that an area of about
47,000 acres (19,000 ha) 1/ can be double-cropped.
2.        The principal works to be constructed as part of the Project are:
A.   Three diversion dams, one on each of the three rivers:
the Seligi, the Danan and the Ketereh; 2/
B.   Kemubu pumping plant consisting of five automatic
diesel engine driven pump units, each with a hydraulic
capacity of 250 cusecs (7 m3/s);
C.   1)   Kelantan Canal and the Limbat Canal to serve land
lying between the Kelantan River and the Ketereh
River;
2)   South Canal to serve land in the southeastern portion
of the Project;
3)   Peringat-Banggu Canal to serve the interior and north-
eastern portion of the Project Area;
D.   Distribution system of secondary, tertiary and quarternary
canals 3/ to deliver water to each irrigation unit;
E.   Project drainage system for the removal of excess rainfall
and irrigation water;
F.   Flood protection dikes on right bank of the Kelantan River
and along the South Canal; and
G.   Operation and maintenance headquarters and staff housing.
3.        The Project includes the purchase, installation and utilization
of equipment for repair and maintenance operations and also the employment
of consultants.
1/   Metric equivalents added.
2/   The Seligi and Danan dams were later deleted.
3/   It was originally intended that quaternary canals would be constructed
by the farmers but they were later added to the Government works.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
4.        The Project also includes:
A.   The provision to farmers of technical, extension and credit
services to assist them in the effective use of the irrigation
water; and
B.   The continued operation of the present experimental and
demonstration farm units working on new varieties and
alternative crops in the irrigated area.
Key Documents
1.   "Kemubu Irrigation Scheme:  Report on the Supply of Irrigation Water
from the River Kelantan for Double Crop Rice Cultivation," Sir
William Halcrow & Partners, November 1961.
2.   "Kemubu Irrigation Scheme:  Supplementary Note to the Report," Sir
William Halerow & Partners, July, 1962.
3.   "Kemubu Irrigation Scheme: Engineering Report," SOGREAH, December, 1964.
4.   IBRD Appraisal Report No. TO-578a, "Kemubu Irrigation Project,
Malaysia," March 3, 1967.
5.   IBRD President's Report No. P-549, May 29, 1967.
6. Loan Agreement (500-MA) between Malaysia and IBRD, June 15, 1967.
7.   Supplementary Letters between Malaysia and IBRD dated June 15, 1967:
External Debt
List of Goods
Operating Policies, Agricultural Credit and Technical Services
Consulting Services and Procurement
8. Supplementary letters between Kelantan and Malaysia dated July 24, 1967:
Water Charges, Land Taxes and Tenancy Rates
Extension Services
9.   S. Selvadurai, Ani bin Arope and Nik Hassani bin Mohammad, "Socio-
Economic Study of Padi Farms in the Kemubu Area of Kelantan, 1968,"
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, October 1969.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
List of Supervision Missions
No.    Year      Mission Members                   Mission Dates        Report Date
1.     1968      H.T. Chang, B.G. Davis            March 5-15           May 10
2.     1969      H.T. Chang, B.G. Davis            March 31 - April 11 May 14
3.     1970      L.W. Bartsch, H.T. Chang          March 3-14           May 19
4.     1971       L.W. Bartsch, IH.T. Chang        March 6-17           April 29
5.     1972      J.C. Douglass, P.Peperzak         April 24-May 7       June 28
6.     1973      H.J. Tennent, P.W. Whitford,      July 9-19            October 29
A.S. Cheema
7.     1974      P.W. Whitford, R.H. Slade (FAO), November 18-          Present
P. Judd (Consultant)              December 7          Report



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Works
ProJect Preparation
1.        The Kemubu Irrigation Project is located in the State of Kelantan
in the northeast of Peninsular Malaysia, about 650 km from Kuala Lumpur
(Map 1737). It is at about 6*N latitude and occupies part of the
alluvial Kelantan Plain (70,000 ha) and is intersected by several small
rivers. The project area (19,000 ha of paddy land) is about 27 km wide,
the eastern edge being close and parallel to the South China Sea.   A
range of hills forms the southern boundary and the Kelantan River,
which has a drainage area of 13,000 km2, delineates the northwestern
boundary. The project area produces about half of Kelantan's rice output.
Kota Bharu, the capital of Kelantan, is about 10 km north of the project
area.
2.        It has long been Government policy to assist paddy smallholders
by providing, wherever possible, irrigation and drainage to upgrade
existing paddy areas, primarily to insure the main season crop against
losses and secondarily to permit double cropping, where suitable year-round
water supplies could be provided. Until the 1960's, such projects were
generally small and were planned and executed by the Drainage and Irri-
gation Departments (DID's) of the States.
3.        By the early 1960's, rice production in Malaysia had begun to
lag seriously behind consumption and imports were imposing an increasing
strain on the balance of payments. Therefore, the Government began to
consider the large-scale investments needed to approach self-sufficiency
in rice. Among the larger and more complex of these schemes were the
Muda and Kemubu Projects, for which World Bank assistance was sought.
4.        The conception of the Kemubu Project was based on several
smaller pumped irrigation schemes which had been constructed and operated
with reasonable success in the 1950's in Kelantan and elsewhere. In
1961, Sir William Halcrow & Partners (UK), were asked to undertake a
preliminary study of the Kemubu proposal, concurrently with their studies
for the Muda Project. Both studies were financed by the United Kingdom,
through the Crown Agents. Halcrow's report, dated November 30, 1961, was
confined strictly to the technical feasibility of the project, with no
discussion of agricultural potential, farm incomes or economic justiLfica-
tion. There was, however, an analysis of the relative unit costs for



AN4NEX 2
Page 2
various sub-areas within the project and a priority ranking. Technically,
the Halcrow proposals are very similar to the project as finally con-
structed, the main differences being the use of diesel rather than
electrically driven pumps and the addition of tertiary and quaternary canals.
The report is mainly devoted to water availability, power sources for
pumping and flooding problems.
5.        A supplementary note was produced by Sir William Halcrow &
Partners in July 1962, giving further details on the system operation,
the construction schedule and drawings of typical structures. These
reports were submitted to the Bank in 1962 and commented upon favorably.
6.        The next step appears to have been the engagement of Socie'te
Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications Hydrauliques (SOGREAH, France)
to undertake further studies of the project and to prepare final designs
and contract documents. It is not clear from Bank records whether this
contract was financed by the Government or through French bilateral assis-
tance.
7.        SOGREAH began working in May 1963 and produced a summary report
describing the general features of the project in December 1964. Detailed
designs and specifications were completed by May 1965. The project
described in the summary report is generally similar to the Halcrow pro-
posal but with some refinement of the topographic and hydrologic data.
The report is again confined strictly to engineering concerns. Water
demands were based on "instructions from DID" rather than the consultants'
own judgement. Although it was assumed that the system would be operated
for continuous irrigation, the consultants decided to build in flexibility,
by constructing the main system on "relatively modern lines", that is,
with sufficient hydraulic capacity and control structures to permit -
rotational irrigation, if required. SOGREAH did not consider that flooding
along the Sg. Kemasin would be a serious problem. The project cost was
estimated at US$13 million at this stage.
Appraisal and Negotiations
8.        A brief visit was made to the project area by the Bank appraisal
mission for the Muda Irrigation Project in February-March, 1965. Some
economic analysis was prepared by the Government for this mission. On
September 17, 1965, a formal request was made to the Bank for financing of
the project. An appraisal mission, consisting of Messrs. T. Threlkeld,
J. Willems (Bank), J. Guillard (FAO) and J.C. Douglass (then a consultant),
visited Malaysia between February 6 and 27, 1966.
9.        Negotiations, which were scheduled for June, 1966 were postponed
due to a last-minute decision by the Government to substitute diesel
for electric power at the Kemubu Pumping Station. This decision followed



ANNEX 2
Page 3
DID's inability to negotiate a satisfactory tariff with the National
Electricity Board. There were also discussions within the Bank as to
whether the loan should finance any local currency (this was not agreed
to by the Loan Committee) and the position which should be taken on
agricultural credit, as Mr. Takahashi was undertaking a survey mission on
credit at about the same time (late-1966). Negotiations were eventually
held between February 20 and 24, 1967.
10.       There was considerable discussion at negotiations on the
covenants and supplementary letters concerning cost recovery and agricul-
tural credit (Sections 5.09, 5.10 and 5.11 of the Loan Agreement and Sup-
plementary Letters 3 and 4). The Malaysian Government was reluctant
to commit itself to specific levels and deadlines. The Loan, of US$10
million equivalent, was approved by the Executive Directors on June 13,
1967 and was signed on June 15, 1967.
ProJect Features and Objectives at Appraisal
11.       The project works envisaged at appraisal included the Kemubu
Pumping Station, with five 7 m3/s (250 cusec) diesel-driven pumps; a
network of primary, secondary and tertiary canals to serve 19,000 ha
(47,000 ac); a drainage system, including the improvement of river channels;
a flood protection levee along the Kelantan River; booster pumps to
serve 800 ha (2,000 ac) above the South Canal; three diversion dams
(headworks) to divert additional water into the system; equipment for
operation and maintenance (0&M); and miscellaneous buildings. About
3,200 ha of the project area was previously irrigated by pumping and small-
scale diversions. Only about 500 ha was irrigated in the off season.
The project description also included quaternary canals (which, it was
assumed, would be constructed by the farmers themselves), the provision of
technical, extension and credit services to the farmers and the continued
operation of experimental and demonstration farm units "on new varieties
and alternative crops." However, no provision was made, either in the
allocation of the proceeds of the Loan or in the project cost estimate,
for financing quaternary canals or agricultural supporting services.
Funds were provided for consultants to design and supervise the construc-
tion of the project works. The cost estimate at appraisal is shown in
Table 1.
T2.       The Bank loan was intended to finance the estimated direct
foreign exchange requirements of the project, that is, actual expenditures
for imported materials and equipment and consultant services. The original
allocation of the proceeds is shown in Table 2.
13.       In appraising the project, the Bank and the Government saw it
mainly as a means of achieving full double-cropping in the project area.
Consequently, only secondary attention was given to potential yield
increases and there was little consideration of crops other than paddy,
or of the most appropriate level of on-farm development. The Government,



ANNEX 2
Page 4
and to some extent the Bank, have continued to measure the progress of
the project in terms of the narrow double-cropping objective. However,
in the last two years, it has become clear that paddy growing alone is
unlikely to provide acceptable incomes, owing to the small farm sizes
in the project area (Annex 4). On the other hand, the appraisal report
was perhaps ahead of its time in giving considerable emphasis to the
problem of land tenure (para 4.40 of the Appraisal Report) and the need
for improved research (para 5.08), extension (para 5.10) and agricultural
credit (para 5.14). Progress in these areas is discussed in Annex 3.
14.       The Appraisal Report included a detailed discussion of the appro-
priate levels of water charges and recommended a level of M$37/ha
(M$15/ac) and an increase in the land tax for double-cropped irrigated
land to M$62/ha (M$25/ac), to capture part of the benefits to landlords.
These charges, which would have implied a cost recovery index of about
30%, were accepted in principal by the State of Kelantan in a supplementa-
ry letter. The magnitude of the increased land tax was not specifically
agreed to. Progress in cost recovery is discussed in para 6.01.
Construction History
15.       The Loan became effective on October 31, 1967, some delay being
occasioned by the finalization of the contract with SOGREAH, the consult-
tants selected for construction supervision. Construction began in
September, 1968 with the aim of commissioning the project in July, 1971.
Table 3 shows the contracts awarded and their amounts. The construction
target was very nearly met, the canal and drainage system and pumping
station being practically complete by August 1971, when two pumps (out
of five) were in operation. All pumps were installed by January, 1972
in time for the 1972 dry season. The appraisal report envisaged the
beginning of double cropping in 1971 but this estimate apparently made
no allowance for the delays in Board presentation (para 9) and effective-
ness.
16.       Full completion of the project was not reached until the end
of 1973, due to various touching up and finishing activities and to the
addition to the project (in 1970) of 410 quaternary canals. As paddy
areas in Kemubu are interspersed with higher ground where rubber is grown
and villages are situated, quaternary canals are needed in much of the
project area to lead water from the tertiary canal outlets across or
around the higher ground to reach the paddy fields. At appraisal, it was
thought that these ditches would be dug by the farmers themselves with
minimal help from the Government. Later this was recognized as in-
feasible, as farmers were generally unwilling to give up valuable rubber
or orchard land without compensation and were unable to organize them-
selves to do the work by communal labor. While there was never any
very vigorous effort by the Government to organize the farmers for this
work, experience in other countries indicates that efforts are rarely



ANNEX 2
Page 5
productive for works of this kind. For the smaller ditches (quinaries)
which run along plot boundaries, communal labor has been found to work
(para 29). Beginning in 1970, rights of way for quaternary canals were
purchased and designs prepared by the consultants. Construction was
carried out by the villagers through "rural works contracts" with the
village heads, who were paid M$1.50/yd3 of excavation. Some structures
were built by competitive tender.
17.       A number of design changes were adopted in the course of the
project which tended to lower project costs or improve performance.
It was anticipated at appraisal that frequent pockets of sandy soil
would be encountered but this was apparently not the case and thus most
of the expected concrete lining was eliminated. It was found that the
Danan and Seligi headworks would divert only a negligible amount of water
in the dry season and thus could not be economically justified. This
required the re-design of the lower part of the South Canal and the three
booster pump stations which serve 800 ha above the South Canal. Two
additional booster pump stations were added to the project to serve
certain areas at lower cost than was possible by gravity.
18.       Other design changes included the provision of roads suitable
for light traffic on one bank of all major canals, additional road
bridges, and modifications to reduce the costs of many of the structures.
The flood levees were raised in height to improve flood protection.
Project Cost and Disbursements
19.       The final project cost, exclusive of interest during construction
and possible contractor's claims now under arbitration, was M$66 million
(Table') comiparedkt-o t 5 Z millio-nat appraisal, an increase of 27%.  The
cost increase is almost entirely accounted for by the addition of quater-
nary canals, roads and bridges '(M$3.4 million) and Farmers' Development
Centers (Annex 3) (M$1.3 million), and an underestimate at appraisal of
land acquisition costs (by M$7.5 million) and of supervision costs (by
M$1.6 million). Because of design changes, it is difficult to compare
individual civil works items in Table 1. However, the total cost of
civil works was remarkably close to the original estimate, partly because
there was almost no inflation in Malaysia during most of the construction
period. Therefore, the omission of price contingencies from the cost
estimate was justified by events.
20.       There was, however, a serious overestimate at appraisal of the
direct foreign exchange element of the project cost. Initially, disburse-
ments for civil works were based on direct foreign exchange expenditures
by the successful contractors. In fact, Malaysian contractors won all
the civil works contracts and used mainly equipment already in their
possession. Because of the resulting low rate of disbursements, the
disbursement procedures was changed in 1968, to 37% of total civil works
expenditures. The reimbursement percentage was raised to 90% in 1972, to



ANNEX 2
Page 6
ensure that the loan was fully disbursed. This experience illustrates
the advantages of the Bank's present methodology of basing loan amounts
and disbursements on the estimated direct plus indirect foreign exchange
component. The final disbursement allocation (Table 2) reflects the
fact that O&M equipment procurement was not undertaken in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines and was therefore not eligible for disbursement.
Performance of Consultants and Contractors
21.       The performance of the consultant, Socie`te4 Grenobloise d'Etudes
et d'Applications Hydrauliques (SOGREAH), appears to have been very
satisfactory. Although the project planning, for which SOGREAH was partly
responsible, can be faulted for its lack of attention to cropping potential,
farm economics and on-farm development (para 7), this was partly compensated
by a design which is sufficiently flexible to allow improvements to be made
in the operating system or in water distribution at the farm level with-
out significant reconstruction of the main system. In the construction
phase, the consultant appears to have been alert to design improvements
and cost savings and must be given credit for minimizing cost overruns
(para 19). There is no record of criticism of the consultant's per-
formance, either by Bank supervision missions or by DID.
22.       The contractors9 performance appears to have been reasonably
satisfactory, the only complaints being directed at Kien Huat Co., Ltd.,
the main civil works contractor. This firm appears to have given too
little engineering supervision to its workmen in the early period of the
contract and consequently some of the work, particularly the concrete
structures, were not up to standard and had to be demolished. There were
anonymous allegations of corruption concerning this contractor but these
were never substantiated. The performance of the main pump supplier (MAN,
Germany) appears to have been satisfactory, the delays in pump installa-
tion being entirely the result of transport delays within Malaysia. How-
ever, DID is presently experiencing serious difficulties in obtaining spare
parts from the manufacturer.
Present Status
23.       Operation and maintenance (O&M) of the project facilities
appears to be adequate. There is a need for resurfacing (and possibly
upgrading) some of the O&M roads, which are open to light public traffic.
Even though all the major canals were fenced under the project, cattle
and buffaloes are seen in the canal reserves but do not appear to be
creating a serious problem.
24.       Moderately serious problems have been experienced at the Kemubu
Pumping Station. It has been found that the pumps are not capable of
delivering their full design discharge when all pumps are in operation,
owing to interference effects. Solving this problem may require modifica-
tions to the pump inlets or the problem may be avoided by improving water



ANNEX 2
Page 7
use efficiency (para 26) and thus reducing peak pumping demands. Other
problems include erosion of the pump impellers and long delivery times
for spare parts. Shortage of spare parts is causing unnecessarily pro-
longed breakdown periods and consequently is affecting the availability
of irrigation water, a sourcc. of complaints from the farmers (Annex 3).
DID is discussing ways of improving the delivery of spare parts with
the manufacturer.
25.       The cost of O&M for the Kemubu Area in 1974 was M$2.3 million
or US$52/ha, including all pumping costs and the salaries of supervisory
personnel. This may be compared with the appraisal estimate of US$30/ha
(in 1974 prices). This difference reflects the rapid rise in dieseline
prices in 1973/74 - from M$0.16/l (M$0.59/gallon) delivered to Kemubu
in 1972 to M$0.28/l in late-1974. In the light of these costs, the KADA
engineers are examining ways in which energy consumption could be reduced
by improving water use efficiency. Some preliminary studies have been
done and KADA plans to introduce a system of rotational (intermittent)
irrigation in the 1975 off season.
26.       A rough calculation of actual water use efficiency has been made
by the mission, using the appraisal report estimates of consumptive use
(these must be regarded as very approximate but no empirical work is
available), reasonable estimates of the degree of effectiveness of the
recorded rainfalls, and actual volumes of water delivered by the pumping
station. For the year 1972/73 (off season plus main season) an overall
system efficiency of 40% is obtained and, for 1973/74, a figure of 26%
results. As rainfall in the latter year was extremely irregular, the
accuracy of the calculation is somewhat dubious and it may be reasonable
to assume that system efficiency at present is 30-40%. As conveyance
efficiency (to the "outlet") has been measured at 85%, it is clear that
heavy operational losses are occurring in delivering water to the fields,
under present conditions of field-to-field flooding. Seepage losses
may also be important in the off-season, as the project area soils are
more permeable than typical paddy soils.
27.       The appraisal report calculation of water demand appears,to have
been seriously in error, being based on a "typical year" (1958/59) rather
than the average monthly rainfall (or rainfalls with a known probability
of exceedence). In addition, 100% effectiveness of rainfall was assumed,
which is too high for monsoonal conditions, and a system efficiency
of 88% was used, which is far too high when field-to-field flooding is
practised. However, such water shortages as have occurred since the
system was completed appear to have been due to equipment breakdowns. On
the whole, the chosen size of the pumping station appears to be about
right for present conditions and it is possible that some excess capacity
may develop if system efficiency can be improved. The non-synchrohization
of cropping that has developed in the area (Annex 3) is helping to reduce
peak pumping demands and there are good possibilities for formalizing this
through rotational irrigation (para 25). The assumptions made at appraisal



ANNEX 2
Page 8
in assessing water availability in the Kelantan River appear to have been
validated by experience to date.
28.       The program of quaternary canal construction (para 16) has only
partly answered the need for on-farm development. Only about 40% of the
paddy land is served by quaternaries and, even where they exist, field to
field flooding across a distance of up to 1 km is not uncommon. It is
likely that about 2,000 ha of the project area cannot be irrigated in the
dry season because of water distribution problems (Annex 3). Conversely,
much of the project area is subject to short-term flooding following
heavy monsoon rains and thus small-scale drainage improvements are needed,
particularly within the irrigation block.
29.       These problems have been partly recognized.   In 1973, a program
of quinary channels (known locally as "parit jari" or "finger channels")
was begun, in order to improve water distribution in problem areas. The
ditches are laid out along the plot boundaries by KADA staff, without a
comprehensive topographic survey but with some spot levels being taken to
ensure a reasonable degree of command. Construction is by "gotong royong"
or cooperative effort, with 100 to 200 farmers being assembled by the
village head to complete the job in a day or so. KADA supervises the work
and provides a meal to the farmers. There is no compensation for the small
right of way used. Estimates of the number of such quinary channels
constructed vary from 20 to 70 but the total area covered is small, cer-
tainly less than 500 ha. O&M of the quinaries will also be the responsi-
bility of the villages but it is too early to assess how successful this
will be.
30.       Another ongoing program of more dubious merit is the concrete-
lining of the existing quaternary canals. So far, this has only been
done in selected locations where severe maintenance problems were
encountered, due to insufficient attention to cross-drainage and damage
by cattle. However, apart from the need for additional drainage structures,
there appears to be no economic rationale for this program. The cost
of about M$42/m or US$520/ha served would be impossible to justify
economically, and if extended to the whole project area, as KADA would
like to do, would represent an outlay of nearly US$100 million for Kemubu
alone. It appears that the small amount of work to date has been financed
out of surplus funds in the Kemubu capital account and thus the economic
feasibility of quaternary lining has not been subject to rigorous scrutiny
by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Economic Planning Unit.
31.       Flooding remains a major problem in parts of the project area.
While construction of flood levees under the project has minimized the
risk of overbank flooding from the Kelantan River, local problems remain
on the smaller Kemasin and Semarak Rivers. The respective areas subject
to annual inundation are 2,000 ha and 250 ha, within the Kemubu Area,
but there is also an additional 2,000 ha on the Semarak River outside
the project area which is subject to annual flooding.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
32.       This problem was anticipated in the various feasibility reports
(paras 4 and 7) and was briefly referred to in the Appraisal Report
(para 4,16). The tacit assumption seems to have been that farmers in
these areas who lost their main-season crop would be compensated by a
dry-season crop, as a result of the project. SOGREAH also assumed that
the flooding would normally be less than a week in duration and thus
would not permanently damage the paddy crop. However, these analyses
may have overlooked the effects of the project on flooding conditions.
It appears that, prior to the project, damaging inundation occurred about
one year in five. In the three years since irrigation began, crop
losses have occurred every year, presumably the result of runoff as a
result of higher antecedent soil moisture in the irrigated areas at
the onset of the monsoon. Inundations of three to four weeks have oc-
curred, which is sufficient to destroy the newly-transplanted paddy.
33.       The basic reason for this problem is the long, tortuous courses
which these rivers follow to the sea and the tendency for sandbars to be
formed at their mouths during the dry season. Under these conditions,
the initial heavy monsoon rains cannot be drained efficiently. Some
possible solutions are examined in para 40.
Future Development Possibilities
34.       While the project has largely achieved its technical objectives
and a marginally satisfactory economic rate of return has been obtained,
farm incomes remain low by Malaysian standards (Annex 5), especially for
those farms unfavorably situated with respect to the canal and drainage
systems or in areas subject to flooding. While these problems have been
recognized by KADA and some steps are being taken to alleviate them
(paras 28 and 29), approaches have been piecemeal and uncoordinated
and are unlikely to lead to least-cost solutions which can be applied
on a large scale.
35.       Some of the infrastructural improvements needed to increase
incomes will be discussed below, while improvements in agricultural
techniques and supporting services will be described in Annex 3. The
major infrastructural improvements needed are on-farm development and
flood mitigation.
36.       The optimum form of on-farm development for Kemubu (that is,
the provision of ditches, drains and roads to serve individual farms,
together with land levelling or boundary realignment, if required, and
improved agricultural services) is far from clear and could only be
determined by a concerted, inter-disciplinary effort in research and
pilot studies (para 39). It is important that planning proceed on the
basis of a comprehensive plan for each quaternary block. This would
require detailed topographic, cadastral and land use information and
a determination of the optimum layout of the infrastructural facilities.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
While it may not be possible to implement the resulting plan in the
immediate future, especially if it is thought that boundary realignment
(which has not yet been attempted in Malaysia) would ultimately be
required, it is important that short-term improvements (such as quinaries
along the lot boundaries) be compatible with the ultimate development.
37.       In the immediate future, consideration should be given to ex-
tending earthen quaternaries to the 60% of the project area which does
not have them and, in some cases, to relocating outlets to obtain better
command. The program of concrete lining should be discontinued, except
in very specific circumstances where it can be justified. The construction
of quinaries by gotong royong should be encouraged but the planning of
these should be improved. Greater attention should be given to small-
scale drainage, which may produce greater benefits than irrigation in
this high rainfall area. Consideration should also be given to providing
farm to village roads and to extending or upgrading the existing village
to market roads.
38.       A method of financing on-farm works will have to be found,
as the aggregate costs are likely to be fairly high. Rural works contracts
and gotong royong are obvious alternatives and consideration could be
given to expanding the production credit system to cover land improvement
works.
39.       Responsibility for such a program of on-farm research and
development would logically fall on KADA but this organization is still
new and severely understaffed (Annex 4). A more productive approach,
at least for the next few years, may be to do the necessary applied
research an pilot projects through the Water Management Center, which
DID proposes to set up in the Kemubu Area with Japanese assistance
(see memorandum of January 8, 1975 to Mr. Golan). The main functions of
the Center would be the training of DID staff and extension workers in
techniques of water management but it is intended that field stations
attached to the Center would be used to study solutions to the water
distribution problems of the Kemubu Project.   In order to do this effective-
ly, it is essential that the Center be managed by (or have strong links
to) KADA and MARDI, as well as DID.
40.       Solutions to flooding in the Kemasin and Semarak Rivers are being
studied in a general way by DID. The problem of silting of the river mouths
has been briefly surveyed by the DID Research Laboratory together with a
consultant from the Delft HIydraulics Laboratory (Netherlands). Possible
solutions suggested by them include:
(a) Dredging the river mouths just before the onset
of the monsoon;



ANNEX 2
Page 11
(b) Lowering the bed level and increasing the capacity
of the Mentuan channel which bypasses a big loop
of the Kemasin River;
(c) Diverting part of the Kemasin flow to the Melawi
River or the Peng Datu River.
Other solutions such as cutoff channels to the sea or the shortening or
deepening of the rivers are not considered feasible.
41.       Finding a feasible and cost-effective solution to this problem
would take some years of careful study and there is some doubt as to whether
any economically justifiable solution exists. Data would have to be col-
lected on topography, water levels, flows, tides, sediment, salinity and
littoral drift. Mathematical modelling, supplemented with physical modelling,
would then be required to determine the feasibility of the proposals listed
in para 40. DID will shortly have the capacity for such studies, as their
Coastal Research Laboratory, financed as part of Netherlands assistance
to the Kuantan Fishing Port Project, will soon be available. However, the
Laboratory is fully committed until at least 1976. In the short term, it
might be useful to assess the costs and benefits of dredging the river mouths
prior to the onset of the monsoon season on an experimental basis.



A\3XTI'E 2
Table 1
MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEi'UBJ IR1LGATIO1T PkOJECT
Cost Estimates
Appraisal aieport     Final Cost Estimate
Item                                  March 31, 1967            iid-1973
a/                                                rmi-------------M$ million----------------
Design -                                                               1.300
Land Acquisition                                4.149                 11 a6oo
Civil Works - Pumphouse                         36500                  1.800
- Flood Protection Dikes                   0.401                  o.496
- Irrigation                              28.750                 19*.000
-Structures and misc.         b/                                 10. 383
- Quaternary canals and roads -                                   3.367
- Drainage                                 L.302                  9.41
- Diversion Dams                           1l.754                 0.390
- Service to 800 ha c/                     1.200                   -
- Building for 0&M             b/          0.720                  0.900
- Farmers' Developnent Centers -             -                    1.300
Equipment - Pumping stations                    36500                  2.700
- Booster Pumps d                           -                    0.225
- O&M Equipment                            0.363                 0.480
Sub-total                     48.639                63.355
Supervision of Construction                     1.300                 2.889
e/      
Physical Contingency -                          1.750             _
Total Project Cost l              51.689                 66.21d4
Equivalent in US$ million at exchange
rate of M$3.00 = US$ 1.00 k2(               17.230                 22.081
Interest During Construction                    1.286                  1.306
Grand Total (US$ million)              18.516                 23e387
a/  Cost of design by consultants in 1963 and 1964 not included in
appraisal cost estimate.
b/ Not included in project at appraisal.
c/ Three pumpstations; civil works cost included under "irrigation";
pumps included under "equipment."
d/  Two of the five pumpstations not included in project at appraisal
but later found to be least cost solution to serve certain areas.
e/ No price contingencies included.
/   Does not include possible contractors' claims.
i   Approximate exchange rate from 1963-1971, during which time the major
part of expenditure took place.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
IMALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Allocation
Category                              Orinal               Final
June 15,1967        January 21,197b
1.  Civil Works                                7,626,o00           8,385,090.31
a)  Canals and Control Works                                   7,250,812.86
b)  Pumping Equipment                         .1,13L,277.45
2. Operating and Maintenance Equipment           121,000                0
3.  Consulting Services                          433,000             309,240.14
4. Interest and Other Charges during
Construction                          1,286,000           1,305,669.55
5. Unallocated                                   534.000                  0
Total                     10,000,000           10,000,000.00



LiS.I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:1w: 500.v -m'I:        ._-rTh.kTQ P::uJECT
Lint c,f 0!tr'.tors
Title                   ;'cnrtactor          krnount2!/ Date Awarded
!;         octil. 1.
1   2   !';ivtil WN'Tor'ks             Kien Hulat Co. Ltd        52.b     Oct. Th,1968
(Trrigation and 3rainage         (Plalaysia)
System)
3             Prrips and Engines      .-achinenfabrik Augsb:irg-  2.2     Nov. 18,19S8
(Kerluhbu Pumping Sty.tion)  ,'inberg Aktierigesellshaft
(MAN) (C-ermany)
L           Kermubu Pumping Station    Chong Soon Lee             2.3     Jan0 20,15970
- 'ivil Works               Construct+on cc.
(M.-alaysia)
Equipment Contracts - not eligible for disbursement.
5          12 Diesel Pumps             Trading and Techr4ical     0.2     June 2L,1971
(Booster Pump Stations)      Services Sdn. Bhd.
(iMalaysia, Australia)
6
7          (C> .i-' :t3kUi'om.ent.     Pern-as Trading            ..
(Tractci<:)                 Sdn. Bhd.
8          O.'-s, Ecuipmer.t           malaysiar. Development     ..          ..
('!rader)                   !.chiriner- idn. i3hd.
1C         [?Yj'v Ecuipment             Fornas Tr-aing            ..
( cader) ..r                 Sdn. 3hci.
11: GiN  au mennt            Harrison Lister           .    
(D*tmp3)                     Engfi.zineerin.g Ltd.
a/ Inr -eer-l cases, - t-.   amo,un.s p:liwsre loss 4h--n Cotract sum1, due to
ths: de1ue.icr~ ^:'.-'n o        T.,isL  is particul'-arlv Ltrue of contracts 1



AINNEK 2
Table 3
Page 2
Local Contracts
Contract
No.            Title                Contractor        Amount      Date Awarded
M$'000
a1             oousing           Federal Engineering    129
Development Co. Ltd.
K2             Housing           Federal Engineering    158        May- 9, 1969
Development Co. Ltd.
X3             iousing           Yap See Yee Const.     159        April 3,1969
Kit            Housing           Hamzeh bin Haji Isa     74        Aug. 4, 1971
K5             Housing           Hamzah bin Ab. Rahman    6        Nov. 14,1971
K6        Irrigation 5y-phons a  Haji Daud bin Abdullah  45        March 12,1972
K1/72            Housing           Lim Pak Tow Const,Ltd. 199        June 13,1972
K2/72       Site Preparation       Mat Junoh b.Ag.Hamat    14        May 17, 1972
K3/72       Site Preparation       Tan Sek Kim             16        April 1, 1972
K4/72       Irrigation Syphons a/ Wan Mohamed b. Wan       31        June 10,1972
Mahimoud
K5/72       Gateway                A.Rahman & Co. Ltd,     13        Aug. 15,1972
K6/72       Housing                Sharikat Chaya Malaysia 32        July-23,1972
K7/72       Project Office         Yap See Yee Const.     152        Aug. 9, 1972
K8/72       Irrigation Syphon r-   Raja Omar b.Raja Daud   26        Sept. 2,1972
K1/73       Irrigation Syphons a/ Haji Salleh bin Isa      36             O
K2/73       Road Surfacing         Yap See Yee Const.      ..
K3/73       Road Surfacing         Yap See Yee Const.      ..
a/ For quaternary canals. Earthworks were constructed by "Rural Works Contracts"
with village heads and no documentation is available.



ANN EXK 3
Page 1
NALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMIUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agriculture
A. BACKGROUND
Climate
1.        The climate in the project area is tropical, with uniformly
hot temperatures throughout the year, and is dominated by the northeast
monsoon in the October-February period and, to a lesser extent, by the
southwest monsoon in the May-September period. Annual rainfall at Kota
Bharu varies between 2,160 and 4,060 mm/yr, with a mean of 2,900 mm.
However, the rainfall distribution is highly variable. The northeast
monsoon may start late or finish prematurely and subject the main-season
crop to stress. Rainfall in the February-October period is too variable
to sustain an off-season rice crop but does permit other crops, such
as tobacco. February-April is the period between the two monsoons and
hence the period of lowest rainfall. The November-January period is the
period of most intense rainfall and total monthly precipitation of
the order of 750-1,000 mm is not uncommon. There are only slight variations
in day length and temperature and, given adequate water control, the
area is well suited to year-round rice production.
Soils, Topography and Drainage
2.        The coastal plain runs north-south and parallel to the coast
for about 30 km, with an average width of 27 km. The irrigation area is
a gently sloping plain with a general gradient to the east (Map 1737).
However, it is quite heavily dissected by numerous drainage channels
and elevated areas, with the occasional outcrop rising 100-300 m above
the plain.
3.        The soils are mostly derived from river terrace alluvia deposited
by rivers rising in the mountains to the southwest and meandering east-
ward to the South China Sea. On the higher portions of the terraces
the soils are free draining, deep, friable, yellowish-brown loams suit-
able for a wide range of crops. Progressing down to the lower terraces,
clay content increases and internal drainage decreases, and the soils
change from silty clay-loams to quite heavy grey clays. These soils are
generally acid, have a low cation exchange capacity and low nitrogen and
phosphate status. They require quite heavy inputs of fertilizer to
achieve good yields but are otherwise suitable for rice production.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        In the northeast part of the project area, lying behind a raised
beach barrier, there is quite an extensive low-lying area of marine
clays, and organic lagoonal material overlain by recently deposited clay.
These are problem soils of relatively low productivity and are subject
to regular flooding during the northeast monsoon (Annex 2). To the
south there is an area of granite wash soils comprising sandy clay loams
overlying coarse sands and gravel, which produce high quality tobacco
and paddy but with low yields. The project area is bounded to the east
by the Bris Association, a series of abandoned sandy beaches inter-
spersed with black waterlogged swamp soils. These soils have limited
potential, though the elevated portions are currently used for cashew
and coconut production.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
5.        The total rural population in the project area is about
140,000, with about 22,000 paddy farming families. Average family size
is about 5.2, with 2.6 labor units employed-on the farm, either full-
time or part-time. The population is predominantly Malay. In a 1968
survey it was estimated that 60% of the population were illiterate and only
11% had completed primary school education. Living conditions were reported
as poor and average net income per household was only M$690.
6.        The average farm is about 1.2 ha (3.0 ac) in size and comprises
0.9 ha of paddy land and 0.3 ha devoted to the houselot and other crops,
mainly tobacco, rubber, fruit trees and vegetables. The average farmer
owns two or three parcels of land. The area cultivated depends on the
status of the operator, as illustrated in the following table:
Average Paddy        % of      % of
Type of Operator     Area (ha)         Farmers      Land
Owner-Operators          0.8              58         50
Tenants                  1.0              20         21
Owner-Tenants            1.2              22         29
7.        About 80% of households own their houselot and only 20% are
landless laborers relying entirely on rented land or wage employment for
income. About half the paddy land is owner operated and the rest is
tenant operated on a crop sharing system.   The owner pays taxes, water
charges (and, in many cases, half the cost of fertilizers) and the tenant
meets all other commitments and takes half of the crop as his share.
Pre-Project Agricultural Production
8.        In the gross project area, comprising the Kota Bharu, Bachok
and Pasir Puteh districts, 60% of the land is utilized for paddy, 22% for
rubber and 15% for mixed horticultural crops, including tobacco, and house



ANNEX 3
Page 3
lots. About 10-13% of project farmers were growing tobacco under pre-
project conditions. Since the bulk of irrigable area is devoted to rice,
with very small areas of tobacco, these two are the only crops of concern
in project evaluation. Rainfed rice production was geared to the northeast
monsoon. Nurseries were prepared in late July-August. Due to a lack of
water, 80% of farmers prepared dry nurseries. Field preparation was
undertaken in August-September, using buffalo or oxen power or hand cultiva-
tion. The crop was transplanted in September and October. Long-strawed
native varieties of 150-180 day duration were used and in 1968 it was
reported that 70% of farmers used some fertilizer. Few farmers hand weeded
their paddy and only 25% used chemicals. Over 80% of farmers reported
crop damage, rats being the major pest.
9.        The crop was harvested by hand in February.    Average pre-
project yields are estimated at 1.3 and 0.8 ton/ha for the good soils
and low-lying problem soils respectively (Table 2) 1/. Thus the average
project yield was 1.24 ton/ha and gross paddy production about 24,000
tons. Few farmers had surplus rice for sale and many had to purchase
paddy to meet domestic requirements. Middlemen purchased 70% of the
marketable surplus and the remainder went to private rice mills and co-
operatives.
10.       Extension and other agricultural supporting services were
relatively poorly developed in 1968 and only 20% of farmers reported
receiving advice from the extension service. A small percentage were
members of rural cooperatives but reported little benefit from membership.
11.       Virginia tobacco production is an important industry in Kelantan.
The States of Trengganu and Kelantan together grow 80% of Malay's domestic
supply. Established in 1959 and promoted by the Malaysian Tobacco Com-
pany (IITC), the industry expanded rapidly to an area of 1,200 ha in
Kelantan by 1967. It is estimated that about 230 ha of the elevated and
better-drained soils in the project area were planted to tobacco in 1967.
The MTC provided seed and extension advice and purchased green leaf
tobacco at fixed prices according to grade. Farmers were encouraged to
grow two crops per year in the February-October period. Average yields
were in excess of 10 ton/ha of green leaf and returns were more attractive
than for paddy. Although only 230 ha were planted, the normal planting
per household was of the order of 0.06 ha, so an appreciable number of
families derived benefit from the crop.
B. PROJECT PREPARATION
12.       During project preparation and appraisal, emphasis was placed
on the engineering aspects of the project (Annex 2) and no plan was made
1/   These are mission estimates based on production data for the three
districts, which include both soil groups.



AtNEX 3
Page 4
for the development of agriculture. The effect of climate on yields and
problems of crop drying were neglected. No allowance was made for
the low productivity of the low-lying problem soil areas, in assessing
production potential. Very superficial treatment was given to the socio-
economic status of the project farmers, existing agricultural product:ion
techniques and inputs, and the ways in which yield would be increased.
Even though an appreciable proportion of the area was suitable for alter-
native crops such as tobacco, which has a lower water requirement and a
potential for higher cash returns, no comparisons were made between
tobacco and rice. No recommendations were made to ensure that irrigation
of off-season paddy would not "drown out" tobacco.
13.       Supporting agricultural services received only moderate atten-
tion despite the fact they they were in a depressed condition and largely
ineffective. Proposals were limited to an increase in extension staff
and an Improvement in the credit system. However, attention was drawn
to the problems of land tenure and rents and proposals were made to
protect the tenant and ensure a reasonably equitable distribution of
benefits.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AT APPRAISAL
14.       The main objective of the project was to provide an off-season
irrigation water supply to facilitate double cropping with rice on about
19,000 ha of land. This involved upgrading irrigation facilities on about
3,200 ha (Annex 2) and installing new facilities on a further 15,800 ha,
which were previously dependent on rainfall.
15.       Production targets at appraisal are summarized below:
Year      Cropped Area      Averae Yield     Paddy Production     Land Use
(ha)           (ton/ha)           ('000 tons)         (%)
1967         19,000              2.2                41.8           100
1978         38,000              3.14              119.3           200
1981         38,000              3.45              131.1           200
Full double cropping was projected to occur in the sixth year and full
yield development in the tenth year after irrigation water was made
available. It was assumed that 100% of the irrigated area could be
double cropped. Events have shown that yields and potential cropping
intensity were overestimated and the initial rate of double cropping
development underestimated. It was projected that a main season crop
would be grown in the period October-February and the off-season crop
would be grown in the April-September period.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
D. TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Soils
16.       Semi-detailed soil surveys carried out by the DOA in the period
1967-69 produced the following general classification of the project area
soils for rice production:
Class II       Class III       Class IV      Class V
49%            321%            14%           5%
No Class I rice soils were identified. The bulk of the soils were rated
as Class II rice soils and comprised the relatively free draining river
terrace soils, some of which have potential for other crops. Class III
comprise the lower-lying soils with drainage limitations and Class IV
covers the marine clays and organic soils in the lower portions of the
project area which are subject to regular flooding, high acidity and
nutrient imbalance. Class V refers to the coastal Bris Association which
is not suitable for irrigation development.
17.       Given intensive farm development and water control, it appears
that an appreciable area of the Class II soils might be suitable for a
rice and upland crop (for example tobacco or groundnut) rotation. However,
no firm data are available. Field crop technology and marketing are not
well developed and tobacco is too labor intensive to allow more than a
small percentage of the area to be developed for this crop. Nevertheless,
this rotation warrants closer investigation, in view of the success of
present sowings in favored areas and the impact crops such as tobacco
might have on farm income.
18.       Under present water control conditions, rice is likely to remain
the dominant off-season crop. All the project area soils are suitable
for rice production but are inherently infertile, especially with regard
to their nitrogen and phosphate status and cation exchange capacity, and
thus the yield potential is only 70-80% of that in the Muda Area. The
unit cost of production for a given yield is also higher in Kemubu.
Production on portions of the Classes III and IV soils is limited by
annual flooding in the main season. Originally it was suspected that
the Class IV soils had acid-sulphate problems similar to those described for
Muda. Subsequent research has shown that the acid-sulphate horizon is at
a depth of 0.7 to 1.0 m and is not a key factor. Nevertheless, these soils
have low productivity, resulting from a combination of factors, including
acidity, nutrient imbalance, and high levels of hydrogen sulphide.    Manage-
ment methods to raise the productivity of the soils have still to be developed
but controlled drainage and oxygenation of the root zone is probably part
of the answer.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Cropping Pattern and Cultural Techniques
19.       With the development of the project is was necessary to change
the cropping cycle. This was achieved by introducing shorter duration
varieties (para 22), which mature within 125-140 days, and the use of
a very rigid irrigation schedule. The irrigation schedule for the off-
season crop runs from April 1 to August 15 and from October 1 to
February 15 for the main-season crop. The schedule is widely publicized
and is posted on boards in each irrigation district. Although the system
started reasonably well, after five seasons of operation, planting is
now staggered over a moderate period. The lack of synchronization can be
attributed to a number of factors, including: the late arrival of water;
poor distribution within irrigation blocks; the tenants' failure to con-
tact absentee landlords in time to allow timely cultivation; and shortages
of cash to plant the crop. Staggered planting undoubtedly results in
some crops running short of water, creates harvesting problems and favors
the build-up of pests and diseases.
20.       There have been some-marked changes in cultural techniques as a
result of the project. The percentage of land that is tractor plowed has
increased, the use of improved varieties has increased considerably
and there is evidence of an increase in fertilizer and agrochemical
usage. The major change was from dry to wet seed beds as a result of
improved water supplies.
Rice Varieties
21.       Prior to the project, most farmers were growing long-strawed
local indica rice varieties which were prone to lodging and took from
150-180 days to mature. In the period 1963-73, a series of improved
varieties was released by the Bumbong Lima Experimental Station in Province
Wellesley. These varieties had a substantial yield advantage over the
local material. They matured in 135-140 days, were nitrogen responsive
and less prone to lodging. However, disease resistance was not high
and rice "blast" (Pyricularia orYzae) reduced yields considerably. Never-
theless, the improved varieties made a substantial contribution to the
increase in yield during the period 1967-71.
22.       The varieties most favored by the farmers are "Improved Mahsuri,"
a japonica-indica cross with quite good "blast" resistance, and "Bahagia,"
a Malaysian selection of F4 generation, IR5 breeding material. Both are
medium height varieties which mature within 135-140 days. "Ria," a local
release of IR8, and "Jaya," a local release of C4-63, are also used
to some extent. However, Ria is not popular, due to its short stature,
and Jaya is susceptible to neck rot. The average yield potential under
farm conditions of the new varieties on the better project area soils
is of the order of 3.0 to 3.5 ton/ha, although in favored areas under
good management conditions isolated yields of over 4.0 ton/ha have been
reported.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
23.       The choice of varieties in recent years is summarized below:
Proportion of farmers using:
Others (including
Season                    Mahsuri     Bahagia      traditional)
1972     Main Season/                 22%         23%             55%
lb
Off Season/-                 58%         40%              2%
1973     Main Season/                 30%         20%             50%
Off Season/b                 72%         27%              1%
/a   Based on district data.
/b   Based on project area data.
Source: State Agricultural Office, Kota Bharu.
Although main season data includes land outside the project area, it
illustrates the popularity of Bahagia and Mahsuri and also continuing need
for farmers to plant long-strawed longer duration varieties in the low-
lying areas. It is clear that the majority of farmers use improved
varieties in the off season when water control and flooding problems
are less serious.
Fertilizers
24.       The blanket field fertilizer recommendation for the Kemubu
project is 3 x 80 lb bags of (36% N: 36% P205: 18% K20) basal mix and 1 x
44 lb bag of urea as a topdressing, amounting to about 120 kg N, 95 kg
P205 and 55 kg K20 per ha. No fertilizer response data was provided by
local agencies. Response data from a farm survey in an adjoining area
indicated that maximum N response was likely to be achieved within the
range 60-90 kg N/ha so the recommended rate seems excessive. Good yield
responses to phosphate are reported but research by MARDI indicates no
response to potash. No close relationship between fertilizer response
and soil type has been achieved to date. A 1:6,000 detailed soil survey
has recently been completed by MARDI (para 57) which they hope to use
to refine fertilizer recommendations. In the meantime, MARDI's recommend-
ation is 22 kg N and 45 kg P205 per ha applied as a basal dressing, with
a further 22 kg N applied as a topdressing. This appears much more
realistic but the recommended rate of nitrogen application may be too
low. However, KADA has not yet acted on the new recommendations.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
25.       No data on current fertilizer use in the project area are available.
The only statistics available are those for the State of Kelantan. As-
suming the bulk of fertilizer sold for rice has a 36:36:18 formulation and
is spread over the total planted area in the State, average nitrogen use
on rice was as follows:
1968    1969    1970     1973
Fertilizer ('000 tons)          3.77    6.43    8.54     5.1
Fertilizer (kg/ha)             49.5    81.9    114.3    56.4
Nitrogen (kg/ha)               17.8    29.4     41.0    20.3
From 1968 to 1970 there was a clear trend toward increased fertilizer
use but a fertilizer shortage in 1973, which was acute in Kelantan,
resulted in a marked drop in usage. The limited nitrogen response data
available indicate an average use of 40-60 kg N/ha in the project area
at current yield levels.
26.       Because only nitrogen and phosphate are required in the bulk
of the project area and at lower rates than those currently recommended,
the (36:36:18) basal mix recommended is an expensive source of nutrients.
This situation is serious in an area where a high percentage of farmers
are indebted and has undoubtedly restricted the use of fertilizer in the
past and thereby reduced economic benefits.   With the recently introduced
urea subsidy there will be a strong swing to the use of urea, which would
have undesirable side-effects in a phosphate deficient area.    There is
an urgent need to market a suitable NP basal fertilizer in the area that
sells at a competitive price.
27.       To assist farmers cultivating acid low-lying soils to achieve
higher yields, a lime subsidy scheme has been. This enabled farmers to
buy lime (costing M$85/ton landed in Kota Bharu) at M$10/ton. Again, no
statistics on usage are available for the project area. Rough estimates
indicate that 500-600 ha have been treated in the Kemubu area during the
last four or five years. However, there is no conclusive evidence that
the use of lime has increased production. MARDI personnel feel that the
problem is due to nutrient imbalance and poor aeration of the soils,
as well as acidity. Until more research is done on these soils, the
liming program is questionable.
Pests and Diseases
28.       Rice "blast" (Pyricularia oryzae) is the most serious disease,
and appreciable crop losses can occur, especially from neck rot on
Jaya or C4-63. Research data indicates that local races are different
to those encountered on the West Coast. An active screening, evaluation



ANNEX 3
Page 9
and breeding program is under way and it is hoped to release a blast
resistant line of Jaya shortly. Bacterial leaf blight (Xanthomonas
oryzae), sheath blight (Corticium sp) and yel:L-orange virus, locally
called Penyakit Merah, are the only other diseases of economic importance
but these are not regarded as serious. The rice breeding program is
directed towards building greater resistance to these diseases.
29.       The major insect pests are the dark-headed rice borer (Chilo
polychrysa) and the yellow rice borer (Typoryza incertulas). Green leaf
hopper (Nephotettix sp), brown plant hopper (Nilaparvata lugens) and the
rice bug (Leptocorisa sp) also cause damage. No detailed data are avail-
able on yield losses from these pests but local staff report serious
damage on occasions.
30.       Rattus rattus argentiventer is the common ricefield rat in
Malaysia and causes serious damage to rice crops in the project area.
The most common control measures are the gassing of burrows, the use of
zinc phosphide mixed with boiled rice as a bait on the bunds, and rat
hunts by the villagers. However, there is no regular program for rat
control and, in most areas, concerted action is left until the rats
reach high populations.
31.       Data are not available on the use of agrochemicals in the
project area but it is known that they are not widely used. The DOA Crop
Protection Unit at Kota Bharu, which is responsible for controlling severe
outbreaks of pests, reports that there are substantial losses from
insect and rat attack. These should be assessed and an appropriate
control program should be initiated through the Farmers' Associations (FA's)
and the extension service.
Water Supply and Control
32.       Interviews with farmers indicated that water supply and control
leave much to be desired. There were reports of water arriving late and
the supply being cut for periods of four to five days. In a short visit
during the wet season it was difficult for the mission to substantiate
these claims. However, the known difficulties in achieving rated dis-
charge at the Kemubu Pumping Station and the frequent breakdowns
(Annex 2) support the farmers' reports of unreliable supply during the
off season.
33.       Problems of water shortage during the off season are compounded
by the lack of on-farm development, the uneven terrain and the lack of
water users' groups to distribute limited supplies equitably. Farmers
complain of badly placed and too few offtakes. Water admitted to a block
too often finds its way straight to the end of the irrigation run,
leaving large areas unirrigated. Farmers in the low spots get too much
water and farmers on the higher areas get too little. It was reported



ANNEX 3
Page 10
that some land previously used for off-season tobacco now is waterlogged
and a valuable cash crop can no longer be grown. It is clear that the
unreliability and poor distribution of the off-season irrigation are
restricting yields and production in some areas but the exact extent of
this problem is not known.
34.       All farmers, except those on elevated areas, suffer from an
excess of water from November to January. Lack of water control during
this period discourages the use of improved varieties and cash inputs.
About 1,200 ha of lowlying land is affected to the extent that no main-
season crop is possible. KADA has no reliable data on this problem and
the above area is a rough estimate. On the other hand, farmers in the low-
lying areas can now grow an off-season crop and probably obtain higher
yields than they did before the project. Possible solutions to this
problem are discussed in Annex 2.
35.       KADA is aware of these problems and is attempting to tackle
them. However, the design of on-farm works is not simply an engineering
task. Some areas (particularly the Class II soils) should be developed for
off-season field crop production, requiring better water control, while
other areas are best suited to rice. Each irrigation block needs to be
studied in terms of soil capability, topography and potential water sup-
ply to reach a logical land use pattern. Rational design can then begin
with a better chance of maximizing land and water use.
Paddy Drying
36.       The drying of late harvested off-season crops from August to
October poses a serious problem. Lack of sunshine and high humidity
reduce the effectiveness of the traditional sun-drying techniques., Much
of the rice delivered to cooperatives, FA's and mills has a moisture
content of 18-22%. Due to the high variability of the weather pattern,
the severity of the problem varies from season to season, but September
is usually the most difficult month. The National Paddy and Rice
Authority (LPN) mill and a large Cooperative mill have drying facilities
but find it difficult to cope with the volume of wet rice delivered.
LPN is currently expanding its facilities. From the farmer's point of
view the present situation is unsatisfactory, as the drying faciliLties
are too centralized and remote from him. He loses potential income
through'deductions and spoilage and often has to wait for his money.
Farmers interviewed would like to have small batch drying facilities at
the FA and village level.
Mechanization
37.       While employment figures for the project area are sketchy, it
appears that adequate labor is available and that there is a fair degree
of underemployment (Annex 5). There is a relatively poor fishing
community on the eastern project boundary and it is understood, that this
group contributes farm labor at peak periods. Thus there is ntot a



ANNEX 3
Page 11
strong case for mechanization, which should probably be restricted to a
level which permits timely harvesting and planting without reducing the
employment impact of the project. Should, however, the area under
tobacco expand as a result of improved water control, the labor surplus
could disappear, as the labor requirements of tobacco are such that 0.15
ha would occcupy one family and additional labor would be required to work
the rest of the farm. In some areas, farmers are working tobacco land and
leaving paddy land idle. Presumably, neglect of the paddy land at present
is a result of a lack of operating capital.
38.       Data supplied by the Livestock Division indicate no marked
change in cattle and buffalo populations as a result of the project. It
appears that animal power is still widely used for cultivation. State-
wide data on the availability of tractors are summarized below:
1969     1970      1971     1972     1973
2-wheeled tractors         136      403       ..       716      671
4-wheeled tractors         239      310       ..       368      293
The number of 4-wheeled tractors has remained fairly static but the number
of 2-wheeled tractors has increased appreciably. The decline in numbers
between 1972 and 1973 was reported to be largely due to credit defaults
and repossessions. If the above figures are representative of the general
situation in the Kemubu area, there has been an increase in land cultiva-
tion by tractor since 1969. BPM has extended loans for the purchase of
over 100 tractors in the State. Future efforts to encourage mechanization
should be largely directed toward the introduction of small reasonably
priced, robust machinery that farmers can purchase and operate themselves.
Tobacco and Other Field Crops
39.       Experimental work on a number of crops, including gram, soybean,
corn, sorghum and groundnut, has been carried out in Kelantan. The only
crop showing promising returns and with an established market is ground-
nut. This still has to be tested as a commercial crop on project area
soils, but it should be considered as an alternative crop to off-season
rice on the better drained soils in any program to improve water control.
40.       Tobacco is a well established crop.    The basic technology has
been developed, the infrastructure to handle the crop is established,
it offers an attractive return, and the market is reasonably assured.
Two crops can be grown in the period February to October in rotation with
main-season rice and it offers a steady labor demand as well as a good
return. Although the crop is labor and capital intensive, it was amply
demonstrated by MTC prior to 1971 that, with proper extension and credit
facilities, it can be a highly successful crop. The planted area in the
project area has declined since the project was initiated, owing to water



ANNEX 3
Page 12
control problems and a general project policy of promoting paddy and
discouraging tobacco. It is estimated that about 500 ha of land within
the irrigated area may be suited to tobacco production and it should be
considered as a crop in future development plans.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS OF PROJECT DEVELOPMENT
41.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development is responsible
for agricultural education, extension support and irrigation at the Federal
level, through its relevant Divisions. The State Department of Agriculture
is mainly concerned with extension and crop production activities. The
Cooperatives Division, in conjunction with Banking Union and the Bank
Kerjasama, was responsible for rural credit societies and rice milling co-
operatives, prior to the formation of the Farmers' Organization Authority
(para 46).   Services in the project area have, since 1973, been centralized
by the formation of KADA (Annex 4).
42.       As in the case of Muda, no firm agricultural development program
was drawn up at appraisal and no specific provisions were made for sup-
plementary finance, staff and training, to assist project agricultural
development. Reliance was placed on the existing agencies and personnel
with their limited resources. Within these constraints, the performance
has been adequate. A socio-economic survey of the area was initiated in
1967, soil survey work was extended and plans formulated for the develop-
ment of FA's, seed supply and credit. About 150 ha of pilot plots were
established to check potential problems in the field. Although hampered
by lack of funds and sufficient trained personnel, a reasonable state of
preparedness had been reached by 1972, the first year of off-season
cropping. The development and performance of the key institutions are
reviewed below.
Farmers' Associations
43.       Prior to project implementation, the only rural organizations
were small credit cooperatives, rice milling cooperatives and multi-
purpose cooperatives. There were about 85 of these small units operating
in the Kemubu area. Under an Act passed in 1967, the Government launched
the FA program. The aim was to establish Agricultural Development Centers
(now called Farmers' Development Centers) as focal points for all social,
technical and economic activities at the village level, with a view to
motivating farmers to participate in and eventually run their own organiza-
tions (Annex 4). No farmer was to be more than 5 to 8 km from a center. To
implement the program in Kemubu, the project area was divided into five FA
units of 4,000 to 5,000 ha, based on irrigated area and business activity.
Each FA is provided with about 0.2 ha of land, an office block and meeting
room, a grain and fertilizer store and a workshop. Each FA area is sub-
divided into several Small Agricultural Units, each of which elects represent-
atives to sit on the Board of Directors, which comprises seven to nine
elected and two nominated members. The Board determines policy.



ANNEX 3
Page 13
44.       To provide effective FA management, a General Manager who is an
Agricultural Assistant (AA) and four or five Junior Agricultural Assistants
(JAA's) are recruited from the DOA to operate and manage the five divisions
of the FA, namely administration, accounting, credit, marketing and
extension. Ultimately, it is hoped to transfer these roles to the farmers
as leadership and expertise develop.
45.       The basic statistics of the five FA's, as reported in 1971, were
as follows:
Location                  Area Covered (ha)       Members      Year Formed
Nilam Puri                      5,637                986          1970
Pedang Raja                     3,938                860          1971
Sungei Ketereh                  4,900              1,031          1970
Sri Gunong                      4,856                708          1971
Bukit Jawa                      3,723                848          1970
Total                    23,054              4,433
Membership in 1974 was in excess of 6,000, or about 30% of all project
area farmers. The FA's act as local credit centers for the Bank Pertanian
Malaysia credit program (48) and for the supply of inputs. They also
set 50% of share capital aside for extension of additional production
credit to members.
46.       tNo recent data on FA performance are available and it is still
too early to assess their ultimate impact on the farming community.     All
FA's are heavily subsidized by Government. They have largely attracted
the more progressive farmers and many small farmers in need of assistance
are still outside the scheme. Other problems include: lack of sufficient
qualified and competent staff to fill the administrative posts, only 60%
of which are filled; the inability of the FA's to compete with the private
sector in terms of day to day personal contact and the range and flexibili-
ty of services offered, notably credit; and, the lack of operating
capital for the purchase of inputs and the purchase of paddy. Under
legislation enacted in February, 1973, all farmer organizations have been
placed under the control of the Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA),
which intends progressively to amalgamate other farmer groups (for
example, rice milling cooperatives) with the FA's (Annex 4). Additional
staff will be appointed to the FA's to strengthen management of the co-
operatives and credit and inputs will be made available to cooperative
members through the FA.



ANNEX 3
Page 14
Credit
47.       Traditionally, merchants, millers, friends and relatives were the
major sources of credit, wit'h the bulk of transactions being effected in
kind. Rates of interest varied with the circumstances but were frequently
within the range of 30-80% per annum. Prior to the project, the only in-
stitutional credit available was cooperative credit, from rural credit
societies and multi-purpose cooperatives at the base, Banking Unions at the
intermediate level and the Bank Kerjasama at the apex. The program had
limited impact on the rural community and few of the cooperatives were viable,
because of poor management, inefficient operations, complicated loan pro-
cedures, small membership and poor repayment records. With 70% of project
farmers suffering varying degrees of indebtedness, the introduction of a
suitable credit scheme was essential for successful project implementation.
48.       With technical assistance financed from the Muda Project
Loan (434-MA), the credit needs of the Kemubu Area were reviewed, a
credit program was formulated and pilot trials were run in Muda and Kemubu
in 1970. Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) was established to supervise and
finance the scheme. Initially, FA's, cooperatives and approved suppliers
of inputs were registered as Local Credit Centers (LCC). Their role was
to screen loan applications, to act for BPM in the distribution of inputs
(against credit coupons) and to recover loans after the harvest. Credit-
worthiness criteria were laid down by BPM and land titles were the
usual form of collateral. Due to the unsatisfactory performance of co-
operatives and suppliers and problems in using land titles as collateral,
private and cooperative LCC's are being phased out and most loans are now
granted on an unsecured basis.
49.       The scheme has been operated by using a credit coupon system,
with coupons provided to each successful applicant for the appropriate
amount of fertilizer, insecticide, custom plowing, transplanting and
harvest labor required for the area to be planted. There was a two to
three month waiting period from application to receipt of coupons, and
the work load on administrative personnel at the FA was considerable.
The farmer would exchange coupons for goods and services with registered
stockists and tractor operators but it appears that there were apprecia-
ble delays before BPM provided cash in exchange for the coupons. This
was a particular embarassment to the FA's since they have limited operat-
ing capital and must pay for bulk supplies of fertilizer and chemicals
under normal trading terms. In 1974, a new system was introduced
whereby vouchers are issued directly by the LCC. It is not yet clear
whether the new system has eliminated excessive delays.
50.       There is a time limit for applications and the operation
of the system for each season, so that farmers cropping out of phase with
the system face difficulties. Loans are normally granted for a six-month
period. For the first five seasons, BPM and the LCC's each charged
4% interest, so that the farmer paid 8%. An additional 4% was charged



ANNEX 3
Page 15
on unsecured loans. In 1972, the interest rate received by BPM and the
LCC's was reduced to 3%. Secured loans were then available at 6%, and
unsecured loans at 9%, with a 1% per month penalty charge for late
repayment. The interest rate was reduced again in late 1973 to 4.25% per
season, comparable to the rate charged by commercial banks to large bor-
rowers. Repayment is effected at harvest in cash or kind.
51.       Currently, only 12% of project farmers take credit and only about
50% of authorized credit is used. Repayment records are reasonable and the
program has made a sound start. However, there are a number of problems
restricting the benefits of the credit system. The technical recommendations
upon which credit for fertilizer has been based are unsound (para 24),
which partially explains the low utilization rate. Supplies available
at the FA's are often inadequate, due to lack of operating capital.
Credit is available only to FA members, who are usually the more pro-
gressive and affluent landholders. The system of processing loan
applications and issuing vouchers is still too complex and, given the
rather restrictive creditworthiness criteria, does not adequately accom-
modate the needs of the smallest farmers who need help most.
Extension
52.       Extension and training are largely State functions and are
under the supervision of the State Agricultural Officer. Technical sup-
port is given by Federal crop production, crop protection, soils and
education units stationed at the Lundang Experiment Station at Kota Bharu.
Outside the KADA area, contact with the farmers is achieved through
District Agricultural Officers, assisted by JAA's. Prior to the project,
the ratio of field workers to farmers was less than 1:1,500 in most areas.
The JAAMs were required to undertake routine administrative tasks,
which made day to day contact with farmers almost impossible. With the
advent of Farmers' Associations, a radical change in extension services
was effected. The FA's became the focal point for all agricultural ser-
vices, and the Agricultural Division of KADA now assumes responsibility
for all agricultural activities in the project area, with support from
the Federal DOA at Lundang. The latter runs training courses in farm
mechanization, crop production and home economics for project area
farmers and their families. The programs appear satisfactory.
53.       The total extension staff within the three districts embracing
the project area are summarized below:
1970    1971    1972     1973    1974
AA's                   3       6       7       5        4
JAA's                 12      13      13      14       27
Total           15       19      20      19      31



ANNEX 3
Page 16
Staff numbers have doubled since 1970 but are still inadequate to provide
the sustained extension effort required to make a substantial impact on
the farmers. The problem is compounded by the heavy commercial workload
for agricultural staff associated with FA's and the shortage of trained
staff. High school students with six-months' training at Lundang have
been used as temporary JAA 's to try to fill vacancies. Currently, only
one AA is available to the FA's, which are thus largely staffed by junior
personnel with limited experience.
54.       The major weaknesses of the extension program are the shortage
of staff and the lack of day to day contact with farmers; the lack of
extension work on water control and management; and the lack of farmers'
groups based on irrigation blocks, to supervise water distribution and
to synchronize farm operations with water releases. At present, the few
available staff are too busy attending to the administration of credit
and supplies to be effective extension workers. Furthermore, the 70% of
farmers who are not FA members get little extension advice, even though
they are the ones who probably stand most in need of it.
Research
55.       Originally, the Federal DOA was responsible for research.
Central research divisions, covering crop production, soils and crop pro-
tection, operated through experiment stations located in each State,
which were largely financed and staffed by the Federal Government. These
stations carried out experimental work, adaptive research trials in the
farmers' fields, and were responsible for seed production. They also
carried out soil surveys and soil testing, gave technical support to the
State extension service and assisted with demonstration plots and the
formulation of fertilizer and plant protection recommendations. The main
station serving the project area was located at Lundang, adjacent to
the present headquarters of KADA, and was supported by the rice breeding
and research program at Bumbong Lima on the West Coast.
56.       The Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
(MARDI), founded in 1969, assumed responsibility for research in 1971.
It now runs the Bumbong Lima Rice Experiment Station and has a multi-
disciplinary research unit at Kota Bharu to service Kelantan. The unit,
which is housed in temporary offices with no experimental land of its own,
comprises Soils, Rice Breeding and Crop Development Sections. While the
existing staff appear keen and competent, the unit is grossly understaffed
for the tasks it is supposed to perform. It is active in screening and
testing rice varieties (in association with Bumbong Lima), soil surveys
and fertilizer response studies, crop production and crop agronomy, and
the evaluation of research results at the farm level. Trials are con-
ducted on rented land in farmers' fields. This is not satisfactory
for the evaluation of breeding lines, as farmers are tempted to take seed
from attractive looking plants which may, however, have high disease sus-
ceptibility. The unit has carried out useful work, and there are plans



ANNEX 3
Page 17
to acquire one ha of land, build new offices and expand its staff. How-
ever, difficulties are anticipated in attracting competent research
personnel to Kota Bharu.
57.       In the meantime, the Federal Agricultural Experiment Station at
Lundang has no authority to carry out research work. Its activities are
restricted to seed production, soil surveys (which are not well coordinated
with those done by MARDI), training, demonstration plots, crop protection
and technical support services to the agricultural development program.
The 12 ha of experimental land and basic research facilities at Lundang
are largely wasted.
58.       Liaison between research and extension and other agricultural
development agencies in the State is effected through a State committee
which meets occasionally to discuss problems and to exchange views and
information. To date it has been ineffective in transferring technical
information from MLARDI to DOA and KADA, for example, on fertilizer recom-
mendations. This is partly due to the continuing friction between MARDI
and the DOA. The situation might improve now that the new manager of
KADA has been appointed as chairman of the committee, and might also improve
with the creation of the Agricultural Engineering and Water Management
Research Program. Both this Program and MARDI's Rice Research Program are
expected to reduce these communication difficulties.
Seed Production and Distribution
59.       The DOA is responsible for seed production.    Foundation seed of
improved varieties from Bumbong Lima is multiplied on Government and
farmers' land. Since gross seed requirements in the project area are of
the order of 480 tons for the main season crop, it would be impossible
for DOA to meet the total requirements. In order to meet the needs of the
program area for seeds of the short duration varieties prior to the first
off-season irrigation, the project management adopted a plan of supplying
about 2.5 kg of improved seed free of charge to as many farmers as pos-
sible in the previous main season. The program was widely publicized and
farmers were advised to keep the produce for planting in the following
season.
60.       Bahagia and Mahsuri were the varieties distributed in the first
season. Currently seed of these varieties is supplied on an exchange basis
or sold at M$0.55/kg. At present, gross seed production approximates
150 tons for the State of Kelantan. The paddy land is divided into six
regions for seed distribution, and each region receives new seed every
sixth crop. While there is a high percentage use of new varieties in the
project area, there is a need to develop a program in which the majority
of farmers change their seed every third or fourth crop. This would only
require about 50 ha of land to be planted to seed crops each year and reason-
able supervision by a Federal Agricultural Officer in order to control
quality.



ANNEX 3
Page 18
Fertilizer and Agrochemicals
61.       Bulk fertilizer and agrochemical supply are handled by a number
of large companies, with retail distribution via the FA's and registered
private stockists. Kelantan was seriously affected by the world shortage
of fertilizer in the period 1972-74. As well as causing a reduction in the
amounts of fertilizer applied by farmers, it produced a considerable
variation in the types of basal mix and sizes of packages available.
This situation still persists and undoubtedly confuses the farmers. In
the absence of yield response to potash, there is now a strong case for
standardizing on one NP basal mix to be distributed in a standard sized
package. The distribution system appears to function reasonably well but
lack of operating capital restricts the amount of fertilizer that can be
handled by the FA's.
62.       The recent introduction of a 55% subsidy on urea, with sole
supply through the FA's, will boost the FA's but will seriously distort
the market. Farmers will naturally buy urea in preference to basal
mixture, and stockists and suppliers who rely heavily on basal mix sales
may be forced out of business. Furthermore, subsidy of one type of
fertilizer for one section of the community will undoubtedly lead to a
black market in urea. If the scheme persists too long, without an
equivalent subsidy for NP basal mix, farmers will neglect the use of
phosphate, resulting in a reduced response to nitrogen and lower pro-
ductivity.
63.       The following measures are required to improve fertilizer supply
and use in the project area. Basal mixture should be standardized to
provide nitrogen and phosphate only in a suitable ratio, about 1:1.
Package sizes should be adjusted so that fertilizer recommendations can
be given with reasonable accuracy in terms of bags per acre. In addition
to brand name and symbol, each bag should show the net weight of contents,
analysis, recommended retail price and a standard statement regarding proper
use. A regulatory service should be established to spot check analyses and
prices at the retail outlets. Provision should be made to increase the
operating capital of FA's and the government should carefully review its
fertilizer subsidy policy.
Paddy Drying and Milling Organizations
64.       The major problem in paddy handling under the project is the
drying of late planted off-season crops.   There is one large cooperative
rice mill equipped with drying facilities which dries about 3,500 ton/yr.
LPN also has a large drying/milling/storage complex with a drying capacity
of about 30 ton/hour. Since three passes are required when the paddy
is above 8% moisture, "effective" output is about 10 ton/hr in September.
Both mills purchase from FA's and cooperatives and have no direct dealings
with the farmers. They also report difficulty in coping with wet paddy in
September. The LPN hopes to have two new drying/milling complexes in
operation during 1975, which they feel will solve the problem. In view of



ANNEX 3
Page 19
the dissatisfaction of the farmers with the present system (para 36), the
further expansion of highly centralized Government facilities is of doubtful
merit.
Tobacco Organizations
65.       The tobacco industry was originally run by MTC, who pioneered
the crop in Kelantan. They established curing barns, a credit, extension
and marketing system, and restricted production to registered growers
under a quota system. The system operated well: area expanded, and
yield and quality increased until the late 1960's. At this stage, com-
petitors moved in to purchase leaf, and disrupted the system. Consequently,
MITC withdrew in 1970-71, leaving a vacuum. Without supporting services
and controls, yields and quality dropped and local production became dis-
organized.
66.       In 1973, the National Tobacco Board (NTB) was established with
headquarters in Kota Bharu, to regulate and promote the industry. NTB
licenses tobacco barns, registers growers, and establishes grades and
and prices for green and cured leaf. They currently plan to establish
central selling floors and an auction system for marketing. They are
actively engaged in establishing effective extension services and advising
cooperatives regarding credit. BPM operates a special credit system for
tobacco producers. It has been successful, and is one of the few Govern-
ment credit programs to have become economically viable. Under NTB
guidance, the tobacco industry in Kelantan appears to be recovering.
It is certainly sufficiently viable to support an expansion of tobacco
production in the Kemubu area if off-season water control problems can
be overcome.
F. DATA COLLECTION AND PRODUCTION PERFORMANCE
Data Collection
67.       The lack of reliable data posed problems for project preparation
and appraisal and created difficulties in the current project evaluation.
Relative to many other countries, the Federal Department of Statistics, which
is responsible for data collection, is efficient and well managed, having
a survey team in each State for data collection., It is thus disappointing
not to find statistics on such items as fertilizer and chemical sales, tractor
sales and rice milling and storage capacity. In many cases, little cost would
be involved in collecting this type of data on an annual basis.
68.       Yield and production data are collected with the assistance of
the district extension staff. Based on methodology developed by a visiting
FAO expert in 1965-66, paddy land is divided into a number of Artificial
Crop Units, each of about 13 km2. Selection of sample areas within a
Unit is based on the list of paddy growing lots held by the State Land



ANNEX 3
Page 20
Office. These are assigned numbers and six are selected at random for
each season. The district extension officer is required to select three
of the six for sampling, based on whether the lot is representative in
terms of planting time and other key parameters. At the first visit,
the extension officer is required to estimate visually the lot area and
average yield and peg out a 7 m x 5.5 m section for sampling. He is also
requested to record cultural details (e.g. variety, inputs used) and
arrange a harvesting date with the farmer. At harvest, the yield of the
whole plot is measured volumetrically. Samples (5 kg) of paddy are
purchased from two of the plots in each Articicial Crop Unit. These are
returned to the local DOA office and weighed. They are then sun-dried
for 15 days or until they reach constant weight. The average yield of
the plot is then calculated in terms of dry paddy.
69.       Although the system appears to work quite well, there are
several potential errors that could affect the accuracy of the resulting
yield and production estimates. Planted and harvested areas within a
district are checked by eye. The cutting is biased towards farmers
planting and harvesting at the prescribed periods and takes no account
of losses that occur at harvest or after harvest. There is no check
on the final moisture content of the plot sample, which could lead to
a 2-3% error. The site selection and sampling procedures as described
in the manual area are quite complicated for a JAA to follow. Furthermore,
there are inherent dangers in making an officer responsible for taking
measurements, which to some extent reflect on his own professional per-
formance.
70.       KADA is now supervising crop cutting in the project area.   Once
staff is expanded and the new management begins to operate effectively,
reasonably reliable yield and production estimates should be possible.
To allow for losses which normally occur during farm harvest, transport
and drying, but which are neglected in crop cutting estimates, the
official yield data were reduced by 10%. The available evidence suggests
that the difference between Statistics Department data and farm yields
is at least this large.
Production Performance
71.       Planted area, average yields and gross paddy production "with"
and "without" the project are presented in Tables 1 and 2.. These data
were used as a basis for project economic and farm income analysis
(Annex 5). A graphical comparison between projected and actual production
parameters is presented in Figure 1.
72.       Appraisal projections overestimated the area that could be double
cropped with rice by about 8%. One hundred percent double cropping was
anticipated on the full 19,000 ha, i.e., an annual planted area of 38,000 ha.
In practice it is estimated that only 18,000 ha can be effectively cropped
in the main season, due to flooding on about 1,000 ha (para 34), and that
only 17,000 ha can be effectively commanded in the off season. This gives
an annual potential planted area of about 35,000 ha and a rice cropping



AINTNEX 3
Page 21
intensitv of 184%. In addition, it is anticipated that 200 ha of elevated
land is double cropped to tobacco during the off season. This raises the
cropping intensity to 186%o per year.
73.       The phasing of double cropping was not studied in detail at
appraisal. It was projected that full double cropping would be achieved
in the sixth year after water became available, which is 1978. In practice
96% of potential double cropping was achieved by 1974, so the project has
exceeded expectations in this regard.
74.       The pre-project yields assumed at appraisal were 50-60% higher
than the estimate of the present mission, which is based on district
data, reduced by 10% to allow for errors in crop cutting tests (para 70).
It appears that the appraisal mission was not sure how to adjust the given
1965-7 project area data to represent average pre-project conditions,
given there was unusually severe flooding in 1965-7. The mission may have
transferred yield results from Province Wellesley on the west coast, where
soils and productivity were, and continue to be, better than in Kemubu.
As a result, yields projected at appraisal under full development were 25%
higher than current mission projections. Rates of yield development pro-
jected at appraisal have been achieved but absolute yield levels have been
consistently lower (Figure 1). The current projected yield at full
development is only 70% of that projected for Muda, owing to the relatively
infertile soils, flooding problems and the lower efficiency of agricultural
services in Kemubu, which is expected to persist.
75.       Due to the overestimate of yield and potential area available
for double cropping, total paddy production in the project area fell
well short of appraisal estimates for the period 1967-71. For 1971/74,
actual production rose rapidly, almost equalling the projected production for
this period. Owing to limitations imposed by available area for double
cropping and yield potential, gross potential at full development in 1980
will only be 70-80% of that originally projected but still more than double
the pre-project production.
G. FUTURE POTENTIAL
76.       The area development targets set at appraisal have largely been
met within the physical limitations of the project. However, much remains
to be done in terms of increasing rice yields and maximizing land and
water use. A further increase in production could be achieved with the
intensification of on-farm works to improve water control. Hiowever, in
view of the dissected terrain and low productivity of some of the soils,
care would be required to avoid over-capitalization. A selective rather
than a blanket approach is indicated. Most benefits are likely to accrue
from the better drained Class II soils. Here investments in on-farm works
would allow a field crop/rice rotation to be introduced, leading to higher
output, increased farm incomes, a better spread of labor demand and a
substantial reduction in water requirement during the off season.



ANNEX 3
Page 22
77.       The organization, operation and staffing of the extension
service, credit service and FA's should be examined with a view to ef-
fectively reaching the 50-60% of farmers currently not served. Measures
which should be considered are: the formation of water user groups
as contact points for extension, credit and the supply of inputs, and
as sub-units of the FA's; expansion of the FA extension services to cover
all farmers; replacement of FA agricultural staff concerned with business
activity with staff trained in commerce, and the release of the agricul-
tural staff for field extension work; an increase in the operating capital
of the FA's; further streamlining of credit procedures; and the development
of an improved seed multiplication and distribution system. The staff
of KADA should be brought up to full strength as soon as possible.
Consideration should be given to paying an area allowance to senior
executives to attract competent staff to this rather isolated area.
78.       In view of the urgency of some research and extension problems
affecting the project area, consideration should be given to forming a
research task force for a limited number of years to address them.
The task force should combine appropriate personnel and facilities from
the Federal DOA, MARDI, and KADA under a competent Research Director who
would have direct contact with the General Manager of KADA. Topics
requiring urgent attention are:
(a) A thorough evaluation of present cultural practices,
including yield losses and potential increases in yield
and net income from the use of inputs and recommended
cultural practices;
(b)  Refinement of fertilizer recommendations, including the
formulation of a standard NP basal mix and establish-
ment of long-term field experiments to determine the
likely maintenance requirements for phosphate;
(c) Potential yields, returns and water requirements of
off-season irrigated crops on Class II soils;
(d) Management requirements of problem soils in the low-
lying areas; and
(e) An evaluation of small paddy drying plants for use
at the FA's Qr small cooperative mills.
79.       At the Federal level, measures should be introduced to-
standardize the analyses, packaging and labelling of fertilizer supplied
to the Kemubu area, with provision for spot checking quality and price
at retail outlets. The impact of the urea subsidy on the sale of basal
mix and the fertilizer trade generally should be reviewed.



ANNEX 3
Page 23
80.       Efforts should be made to improve the range of basic agricultural
data collected by the Department of Statistics. The field staff of the
Department should be expanded to facilitate greater participation in crop
cutting estimates. MIeasures should be taken to improve the accuracy of
production estimates, including: corrections in yield estimates to allow
for losses from field to store; the use of photo-mosaics to check
planted area; and supplementary yield estimates to check losses Lue to
flood or serious pest attack.



LOAN !500-VA: KENU3U UIRPGATION PiiOJECT
late of Irri:ltion Development
Main Season                         Off Season                        Annual       Cropping
Year  Normal S:oils Poor So.ist Total     N'ormal Soils Poor 3soi.Y  TotaJl  Tobacco' Cro Ied Area / Intensityv
==rO-_____ _----                '000o hR 0 ha 7 (% )
. ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~~~~               ~     ~    ~    ~ --- --- --- --- -- _  ---- ------
V     WS     W'  lg    W   W       W      W    W     W     W   W     w   W         14              W
1957  17.0   17.0    2.0  2.0  19.- 19.()  0.5   0.5    -    -    0.5 0.5   0.23 0.23  20.00  20.0   105  105
19658  17.0  17.0    2.0  2.0  19.0 lq9r   0.5   0,,5   -    -    0,.5 0.5  0.22 0.22  19.9  199,,   105  1-05
1959  17.0   17.0    2.0 2,,0  19.0 19.0   0.5   0.,5   -    -    0.5  0.5  0.21 0.21 19.9   19,9   105  105
1970   17.0  17.0    2.0  2,.0  19.0 19.(  0.5   0,,5   -    -    0.5  0.5  0.24 O.' 4 20.0  20,.0   105   105
19'71  17.0  17.0    2.0 2,.0 .19.0 19.0   0.5   0,,5   -    -    0.5  (.5  0.35 0-35 20.2   20.2    106   1o6
19i72  17.0  17o0    1.5  2,.0  18.5 19.0  9.9   0.5   1.1   -   11.0 u.S   0.30 0.37 30.1   20,,2   158i  106
1973   17.0  17.0    1.0 2,,0  1800 19.0  12.7   0.o5  1.5   -   1h.2 0.5   0.25 .040 32.7   20,,3   172   107
197h  17.0   17.0    0.8 2.0   17.8 19.0  IL)4o2  0.5  1.6   -   15.8  0.5  0.20 0. 143 ,l4.0  20J .  179. J07
1975   17.0  17.0    0.8  2,,0  17.8 19.0  14.2  0.5  1.6   -   15.8 o.5   0.20 0243 34.0   20,14   179  107
1976  17.0   17.0    0.8 2,.0  17.8 19.0  14.2   0,,5  1.6   -   15.8 0.5   0.20 0. 45  34.0  202,4  179   3 07
1977  17.0   17.0    0.9  2.,0  17.9 19.0  14.8  06,5  1.6   -   16.4 0.5   0.?0 0.L45 _34.7  20414  183   107
1978  17.0   17.0    0.9  2,0  17.9 19.0  14.8   0,,5  1.7   -   16.5 0.5   0.20 0.!47 314.8  20,.14  183  J08
1979  17.0   17.0    0.9  2.,0  17.9 19.0  14.8  0,,5  1.7   -   16.5 o.5   O.'2 0. 48  314.8  20,,5  183  j08
1980   17.0  17.0    1.0  2.r0  18.0 19.0  15.3  0.,5  1.7   -   17.0 0.5   0.20 0.50 3524   20.,,   186   0o8
etc.
w=  i th projec t
wi= without project
a/ Organic and acid soils and flooded depressions.
E/ ^ropped twrice per year.
c/ Refers only to the irrigable area of 19,000 ha, thaLt is rubber, orchards and house gardens are excluded.



MAldAYSIA
LOAN 500-4A:  KEUJBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Production from the Project Area-/
Cropped              Farmgate     Gross Value    Production    Net Value -     Net Return-/
Area       Yield      Price     of Production     Costs      of Production   From Proi,Area
Pre-Project (1967)            (hTa      (Ton/ha)  (M$lton7      (M$/ha)        (M$/ha)      (M$/ha)         (m$ million)
Main Season
Paddy - normal soils       17,000      1.28-/      363           465             75          390            6.63
- poor soils          2,000      0.77        363           280             63          217            0.43
Off Season
Paddy - normal soils          500      1.75        363           635             85          550            0.28
- poor soils             -        -           -            _               _           _               _
Tobacco                       460     lOo3         430         4,.30            745        3,685            1.69
Total              19,960                                                                           9.03
Full Development (1980)
Main Season
Paddy - normal soils       17,000      2.6         385         1,000            175          825           14.02
- poor soils          1,000      1.5         385           578            140          438            0.44
- flooded areas       (1,000)
Off Season
Paddy - normal soils       15,300      3.2         385         1,230            175        1,055           16.14
- poor soils          1,700      2.0         385           770            140          630            1.07
Tobacco                       400      10.5        530         5,560            800        4,760            1.90
Total              35,400                                                                          33.57
a/  All values in constant 1974 M$o Paddy is valued in ninz`n'ia   ^s _rvut' n      (See Annex 5, Table 1)
b/  Labor costs excluded.
c/  1967 was a year of heavy crop damage.   Therefore, 1966 yields were substituted to
represent pre-project conditions.



ANNEX 3
MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Comparison of Projected and Actual Paddy Area Planted, Yield and Production
120
GROSS PADDY PRODUCTION
Actual
Projected                                           0/
100
o                                                            - 
rI     -                                                  -
0             II
0
c  60                                                                                      *   _ _
,   3.0       _~~                                                                     ___,__
40
20       I 
4.0
AVERAGE YIELD
Actual                        .         _               -
Projected                       Year
-~  3.0                                                            - - - - -
c
)- 2.0
1.0 F
40
PADDY AREA PLANTED 
Actual                            --- 
20
10                           I     I                  I      I
1966   67     68     69    70    71     72    73     74    75     76    77    78     79    80     el
Cropping Year
World Bank-9538



AN1,11X 4
1'aige 1
VIALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization and Management
History of Project Mlanagement
1.        The feasibility studies are silent on the question of project
management and the subject is covered in only two paragraphs in the appraisal
report.  It was envisaged that the (Federal) DID would be the "executitig
agency for the project." There is no reference in the appraisal report
to any need to coordinate engineering planning with agricultural extension
and credit activities.
2.        By 1968, the Government had appointed a Project Coordinator,
stationed first in Kuala Lumpur and then in Kelantan. There appear to
have been two occupants of this post, both Malaysian Civil Service appointees
(that is, generalist administrators). On the other hand, in the Muda Project,
the coordinator was first an engineer and later a senior agriculturalist.
The Project Coordinator for Kemubu was successful to the extent that there
were no interagency conflicts which interfered with the attainment of
the project's objectives. However, compared with what might have been
achieved, or what was achieved at Muda under more dynamic leadership,
project coordination at Kemubu appears to have been somewhat inadequate.
DID's performance was good and the development of Farmers' Associations
(para 7) was very satisfactory but the other principal agencies involved
in the project, namely the Federal and State Departments of Agriculture and
(later) MARDI, appear to have been inadequately motivated, staffed anti
coordinated (Annex 3).
3.        The numbers and calibre of staff assigned to Kemubu has always
been a problem. Successive supervision missions reported that about 40% of
posts in the major project agencies were vacant and that many of the
staff were relatively young and inexperienced. This lack of support for the
Kemubu Project and the preference shown for the Muda Project in assigning
funds and staff must be seen against its political background. State
Governments in Malaysia are heavily dependent on the Federal Government for
budgetary support and the secondment of staff, even in fields for which
they are nominally responsible, such as irrigation and agriculture. The
Kelantan State Government has, for many years, been controlled by a party
outside the Alliance Partv, a grouping of those major parties which held
power at the Federal level, and thus Federal support for projects in Kelantan
has been somewlhat stinted. In 1974, a Nlational Front was formed in M4alaysia,
which incorporated the ruling partv in Kelantan. Tlis has led to efforts



AlNiEX 4
Page 2
in Kuala Lumpur to redress the imbalance of past neglect. Consequc2ntly,
it mzay be expected that greater priority will be given to the needs of the
Kemubu Project Area in the future.
4.        The Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority (KADA) was formal-
ly set up in January, 1973, but did not obtain its own budget unti:l
July 1973. The former Project Coordinator was appointed as the first
General Manager but he was replaced at the beginning of 1974 by the State
Agricultural Officer.
Present Status
5.        As well as being responsible for the Kemubu Area, KADA a:Lso
operates the Salor, Pasir Mas, Lemal and Alor Pasir pumped irrigation
schemes, a total paddy area of 32,000 ha. KADA is a semi-autonomous
authority set up by Act of Parliament and governed by a Board of Federal
and State officials. As KADA has no revenue of its own, it is dependent
on Federal budgetary support and thus there is indirect control of its
programs and staffing levels by both the Ministries of Agriculture and
Rural Development and Finance. Most of the senior staff of KADA are on
attachment or secondment from the Federal DID and DOA and thus have
close contact with and receive technical support and supervision from
their parent agencies. Statutorily, KADA is responsible to the Miniister
of Agriculture.
6.        KADA's chief executive is its General Manager (and Deputy Chairman)
who is also State Agricultural Officer and State Director of the Farmers'
Organization Authority. While this joint appointment does facilitate
coordination between the agencies involved, it does impose an undue
burden on the General Manager, especially when so many of the KADA
subordinate positions are vacant. The staffing positions of the three
divisions of KADA are shown below:
1974 Approved      Vacancies     1975 Budget
Division           Staffing Level     No.     %        Request
Administxation                22            3      14          26
Agriculture                   78           40      51         102
Engineering                  528          246     46          534
Total                   628          289     46         662
It is intended that KADA should recruit its own staff but experience has
shown that it is unlikely that this will be successful, as senior staff
would have limited career opportunities in this relatively small organi-
zation. Therefore, it is reasonable to expect that KADA will have to
continue to rely on seconded senior staff for the foreseeable future.



ANNEX 4
Page  3
liowever, it is important that these staff should be full-time employees.
At present. the head of the Engineering, Division is also State Drainage
and Irrigation Engineer and the Acting Hfeacl of the Agriculture Divi-sion
devotes half his time to state-wide croD production activities.
7.        The Agriculture Division is dtivided into twvo branchies, one for
Agricultural Input Development and Distribution (which includes sul)ject
matter specialists in farm management, seed supply, demonstrations and
plant protection) and the other for staffing- the Farmers' Associations
(FA's). There are nine FA's under KADA's jurisdiction, of which five
are located in the Kemubu Area. Each FA has a building, the Farmers'
Development Center (formerly called Agricultural Development Centers),
and a staff of five, whose salaries are paid by KADA (Annex 3). There
are also a small number of supervisor and auditing staff.    In addition,
the State DOA has district extension staff and subject matter specialists
(Annex 3).
8.        The Engineering Division is diivided into two regional O&M
branches and a Mechanical and Stores branch. The section is heavily
dependent upon back-up from DID, especially for equipment and for the
maintenance of the Kemubu Pumping Station.
9.        An economist is employed under the Administration Section.
Unlike its M4uda counterpart, KADA does not have a sociologist or an
industrial economist. This lack of specialized supporting staff, together
with the highi vacancy rate amongst the line staff. limit KADA's abilitv
to undertake surveys, to evaluate the impact of the project or to plan
future development.
10.       KADA's total budget for 1974 was 1M1$3.6 million, of which about
14$2.5 million was attributable to the iKemubu Project Area.  Anotler  -
l1$0.5 mnillion was spent by the State ancd Federal DOA on services to
the project area, so that the total operating cost was N1$153/ha (US$69/hia),
of which M$117/ha (US$52/ha) is accounted for by the engineering O&M
cost of the irrigation system (Annex 2).   Full fletails are given in
Table 1. The large engineering component of the operating cost is
examined in Annex 2. The cost of administration and agricultural ser-
vices is also relativelv high.   However, there is some hone that the FA's
will eventually become financially self-sutpportin, (Annex 3), at least
in their business activities.
Future Potential
11.       KADA !ias been deliberately modelled on the Muda Agricultural
Development Authoritv (MADA) but it has not vet achieved the inter-
disciplinary integration characteristic of MADA or the thrust of the latter
in hringing about techiological change. This may be largely explained by
the lack of dvnamic leadership in Eenubu, tlhe large number of staff
vacancies and the high rate of staff turnover - no senior official of



ANNEX 4
Page 4
KADA has been in his post for more than two years. Steps are being taken
to overcome these problems but another intrinsic problem will remain -
the small size of KADA. The paddy area tnder KADA's jurisdiction is only
one-third of that in Muda and thus KADA may never be big enough to support
specialist advisers in sociology or farm mechanization, as 11ADA has, or
to undertake project evaluation and planning of further development, as
MADA is doing. One solution would be for KADA's area of resnonsibility
to be increased to take in some of the rainfed paddy areas of the Kelantan
Plain or to expand its services to growers of tobacco, rubber and other
crops within its present area. If one or both of these approachies were
adopted, KADA might be the appropriate agency to implement the proposed
North Kelantan Project.
12.       Alternatively, KADA might be allowed to "fade awav," especiallv
if the FA's are removed from its jurisdiction by June 1975, as is
presently proposed. However, this would be a retrograde step in many
ways, as the growing coordination between engineering and agricultural
activities might be lost. Whatever the final form of iCADA, inter-
disciplinary coordination should be strengthened and more formal pro-
visions made for back-up support from DID and DOA. There is also an
urgent need for closer coordination with MARDI, in order to attack the
water management, cropping potential and farm income problems of Kelantan
(Annex 3).



Table 1
::.LALSIAq
LOAN x 00-iA:E KEM'B1 IbdTiATION P!OJECT
dpereting Budgets
Total KADA Budget                'I 173      1___7         1975
Actual       Budget       hequest
--- 7TT miion          ---------
Administration                    0.036        0.343        0.386
Agiiculture                       0.113        0.215        o.88.
Ehgineering                      1.275         3.080        3.o67
Total               1.L74         3,638        5.238
Kemubu Project Operating Cost -/
1972        1973        197b         1975
KADA                             Actual      Actual      Budget     Request
Administration                    .         0.018       0.171      0.193
Agriculture                                 o 0.067     0.108      0.L42
Engineering                     1. 075      0.935       2.215      2.300
Sub-Total             1.075        1.020       2.494      2.935
DOA
Federal                         0.134       0.129       0.lla      0.121
State                           0.o00       0.4oo       00400      0.400
Total              1.609        1.5h9       3.00U      3.456
Operating Cost
- M$/ha                            85          81         158        182
- US$/ha                           30          33          69         79
a/ For total KADA area of 32,000 ha.
b/  Identifiable expenditures on Kemubu Area.   Some figures estimated.
c/ Area of 19,000 ha.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Prices
1.        All inputs and outputs have been evaluated in constant 1974
Ringgits. Adjustments of historical prices are based on the exchange rates
and domestic price deflators given in Annex 1. Projections of future price
trends are based on Bank commodity price projections in constant 1974 US
Dollars, converted at the rate of US$1.00 to M$2.30.
2.        Paddy prices:  Two separate price series have been used to
evaluate the project area's output of paddy. Farm income analysis has
been based on actual historical farmgate paddy prices and projections
of future trends for these prices in line with Bank projections of the
price of Thai rice (fob Bangkok) and emerging Malaysian Government policy.
3.        For the economic analysis, farmgate prices have been linked
as closely as possible with actual and projected prices of imported rice
with tariffs and subsidies eliminated to the maximum extent possible.
Although Malaysia has made substantial progress over the past decade in
reducing its dependence on imported rice, approximately 10% of the nation's
requirements are atill imported. Furthermore, the progress made in
import substitution is to a large extent due to developments in the project
area itself, 1/ implying that without the project Malaysia would be
significantly more dependent on imports. Thus, for the period 1967-1973,
farmgate paddy prices have been based on the cif price of whole milled
rice imported into Peninsular Malaysia. For 1974 and thereafter, Bank
estimates and projections of the price of Thai rice (5% broken, fob
Bangkok) were used as a basis. As the grades produced in the project area
are rather closer in quality to 15% broken Thai rice than to the 5% export
grade, the fob prices of the latter were reduced 10%, maintaining the
price ratio between these two grades which has prevailed in recent years.
4.        The required transport and handling costs (to Kuala Lumpur)
have been added to the price series, while transport costs between Kuala
Lumpur and Kemubu have been subtracted 2/. The paddy/rice conversion rate
1/   The project area currently produces a volume of paddy equivalent to about
70% of current imports into Peninsular Halaysia.
2/   Between 20% and 30% of Kelantan's rice production is shipped to other
states, with the Kuala Lumpur area the most important destination.



AN7NEX 5
Page 2
used (61%) is below the average milling rate in the project area (64%)
to account for milling costs in excess of the value of by-products.    Thle
price structure used in the economic analysis is given below for three
illustrative years:
Constant 1974 M$/ton
1967      1973     1980
Export price, fob Bangkok                         .     . . .      559
Ocean freight                                   * *_*_*             34
cif, Port Klang                                760        728      593
Port Handling and Transport to Kuala Lumpur      19        16       14
Wholesale price of rice, Kuala Lumpur          779        744      607
Transport, Kemubu - Kuala Lumpur                53         42       47
Price of rice, Kemubu                           726       702      560
Paddy equivalent price, Kemubu                  443       428      342
The complete price series used for paddy for both farm income and economic
analyses are given in Table 1.
5.        An effort has been made to eliminate distortions in prices of
other inputs and outputs in the economic analysis. In particular, the
full unsubsidized 1/ price of urea (currently about M$950/ton) has been
used.
Yields and Project Development
6.        The cultivated area, rate of project development and yields are
those described in detail in Annex 3.
Production Costs
7.        Production costs (Table 2) covering current inputs, namely seed,
fertilizer, land preparation charges and other agricultural chiemicals
(mainly pesticides and herbicides) have been evaluated at constant 1974
market prices. These production costs have been raised above past
levels during the period 1975-80 as a reflection of the expected
improvements in management standards which are described in detail in
Annex 3.
1/   There is currently a 55% subsidy on urea in Malaysia.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Labor Costs
8.        The cost of labor in the production equation was evaluated at a
shladow price derived by computing total labor demand for the project area
in 1967 and 1980 for both the with- and without-project situations
(Table 3). At full development the estimated peak labor demand falls in
the month of November when labor demand and supply are almost precisely
equated whilst in the month of September in the without-project situation
this condition is less precisely realized (Figure 1). The wage rates
(in constant 1974 M$) pertaining at these two points have been empirically
verified as being M$0.35 and 0.26 per hour respectively. Utilizing this
information, together with an estimated minimum wage which must be paid to
call forth an initial unit of labor, an opportunity cost curve for labor
demand in the project area was developed (Figure 2). From the curve the
monthly marginal and average opportunity costs for labor were calculated
for both the with- and without-project situations (Table 4). The resulting
total annual labor costs for 1967 and 1980 were used, in conjunction with
the rate of project development, to generate the shadow priced labor cost
stream contained in Table 5.
Capital and O&M Costs
9.        The capital costs are the same as those given in Annex 2 (here
converted to constant 1974 M$) with two exceptions:
(a)  Capital expenditures incurred for engineering
and design in the years before 1967 have been
converted into their present value in 1967 and
added to costs in that year.
(b)  Actual total land acquisition costs (Annex 2) were
nearly three times as great as market prices
at appraisal. It seems likely that this increase
represented a capitalization of the anticipated
benefits of the project, and the economic analysis
assumes that the estimated market value of the land
before construction began provides the most reliable
evaluation of the opportunity cost of the land for the
without-project situation.
10.       Operation and maintenance costs are based on the data presented
in Annex 4, Table 1.
Project Life
11.       To avoid the difficulties of projecting project benefits into
the indefinite future, a project evaluation period of 33 years (up to the
year 2000) has been chosen and a salvage value of M$20 million assigned
to the project facilities at that date. The pumps at Kemubu pump station
are estimated to need replacement in 1985 at a cost of M$3.5 million.



Page 4
0-conOliC Rate of Return
12.       The above assumptions, including the naddy shadow price series
Tresented in T'able 1, provide the basis for the cost an{i benefit strearis
presented in Table 5.   The resulting economic rate of return of 10.5%
is below the 13% rate projected at appraisal, despite the fact that the
shadow price of paddy lhas exceeded the price forecast at appraisal
(about N$253/ton in constant 1974 U$) throughout the project period and
will remain above that price in the foreseeable future.
13.       The major factor in the shortfall of the economic rate of return
has been the dramatic increase in paddv yields in the project area before
construLction was completed, in the absence of improved water supplies or
other Project-related effects. As noted in Annex 3 (para 21) * this vield
increase was priniarily due to the introduction of new-i varieties developed
in MTalyasia, not foreseen at the time of appraisal.    Actual and currentlv
projected yields (tons/ha) for the main season paddy crop are given
below for illustrative years:
_lormal Soils         Problem Soils
With       Without     With         Withiout
Pro!ject   Project        Projetct
/a
1966-           1.28        1.28        0.77         0.77
1974            2.12        1.98        1.27          1.19
1980            2.60        2.20        1.50          1.30
/a   As extraordinarily poor weather in 1967 depressed
output to extremely low levels, 1966 yields have been
used as base figures in the analvsis.
Althoughi substantial yield increases were projected at appraisal, these
increases were assumed to be entirely due to the project. In actuality,
increases in project area output due to the project itself have come
almost entirely from double-cropping.
14.       The economic 1/ value of project area paddy production is given
below for illustrative years:
1/   Evail.uated at the shadow prices given in Table 1.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Paddy                        Gross
Output       Price           Value
(tons)     (1974 M$)    (1974 M$ million)
/a
196 -               24,000         346            8.3
1974                 77,000        711           54.7
1980                98,000         342           33.5
/a   Refer to footnote 1/ on previous page.
About 40% of the total increase in gross value of paddy production between
1966 and 1974 is due to the rise in prices, with the remaining 60% due to
the increase in output. Of the increase in output, 75% is attributable
to the project and 25% was due to non-project factors, specifically to
the yield increases described in para 13. Thus about 45% of the total
increase in gross value of production between 1966 and 1974 is directly
attributable to the project. The entire increase in gross value of
production between 1966 and 1980 (when full project development should be
achieved) would be attributable to increased production, since prices are
anticipated to decline over that period. About 77% of the increase in out-
put and gross value of production at full development would thus be directly
attributable to the project, and 23% to the non-project factors mentioned
above.
Farm Incomes
15.       It is estimated that between 1967 and 1980 cultivation practices
and yields will so change that net paddy farm incomes will expand by-
M$567 (490%) in the case of tenant farmers and by M$1,541 (450%) for owner
farmers cultivating average paddy area of 0.89 ha. These very satisfactory
increases need however some qualification:
(a)  They reflect reduced production costs consequent
on the current level of fertilizer subsidy and the
probability that water charges will remain at their
current zero level.
(b)  Off-farm earnings will, following the increased use
of family labor on farm, fall by an estimated 25%
by 1980. In the case of owner operators income from
the rent of buffalo for land preparation will decline
as a tighter agricultural calendar slowly encourages
a general move towards higher direct cost mechanical
cultivation.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Thus the increase in net total income between the pre- and post-project
stiuations is M$467 - 59% for the tenant and 1,451 - 158% for the owner
operator.
16.       From Table 6 it is clear that the major determinant of the large
difference in income accruing to the tenant and owner-farmer is land
rent. The mission found no evidence to suggest that the legislation
controlling paddy land rents 1/ is either being effectively enforced or
is likely to be so enforced in the foreseeable future.
17.       The existing and predominant form of land tenure is the 'pawah'
system which has a wide range of minor variations but is essentially a
share cropping system whereby the landord receives by way of rent half
the crop (or its cash equivalent) less seed and fertilizer expenses.
Whilst this system may contain discretionary aspects when the tenancy
agreement is between kin, there is no quantitative evidence which indicates
what happens to the level of rents in such situations. Similarly, there
is no accurate knowledge of the prevalence of kin relationships. Even,
however, if there is some amelioration of rent levels as a product of kin
relationships, it is thought that this will not make a major impact on
the large income difference between the tenant and owner-farmer.
18.       Because approximately half the project area is cultivated under
tenancy conditions, a substantial portion of the farm level benefits do,
and will continue to, accrue to the land owners. This large transfer
payment provides ample justification for the considerable attention
devoted to cost recovery in the appraisal report. Further, it is an area
where the Government, through the project authority, should be strongly
encouraged to take positive action.
19.       Additionally, the imposition of the Islamic religious tax of
zakat also depresses net incomes. This tax is levied at a rate of 10% on
all production of paddy in excess of 1.02 tons per holding. The tax
payment for an owner of a .39 ha holding would be M$168 in 1980, based
on projected yields and financial farmgate prices.
20.       The income level which defines the upper boundary of the second
quintile of the national income distribution in Malaysia is M$400 per
capita per annum. From the data in Table 7 and Figure 2, it is probable
that, in the pre-project situation, 97% of the farms in the project had
total net annual incomes below this level. The impact of the project has
thus fallen almost exclusively on the most needy. The distribution of
income among project beneficiaries could be improved, however, and the lowest
income farmers (the sharecroppers) can be provided with a further material
increase in prosperity by effective rent control even if this is undertaken
in conjunction with a fully economic approach to project O&M cost recovery.
1/   Padi Cultivators Act (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure), 1967.



Table 1
MALAYS-EA
WLO' 500-MA: KEMTJBU IRRIGATIO;N PROJECT
Price Series for Paddy1-/
Financial Farmgate      Shadow Farmgate
Price                Price
1967                                  363                  1143
1968                                  247                  L77
1969                                  233                  389
1970                                  260                  285
1971                                   290                 256
1972                                  367                  30)7
1973                                  422                  428
1974                                   443                 711
1975                                  135                  594
1976                                  425                  538
1977                                   415                 481
1978                                  405                  418
1979                                   395                 367
1980                                  385                  3L2
etc.,                                 385                  342
1/ In constant 1974 M$/ton.



iALAY6IA
LOA?N 500-MA: KEVfiJBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
1-ot Jal-ue of Paddy Production at Eccnonvic Shadow Prices
Gross Value of        Product-ion       ITet Value of
Y i e 1                  P Production            Costs           Production
Nqormal  Poor             Normal    Poor       Normal   Poor     NTormal   Poor
Year      Soils    Soils   Price     Soils    Soils      Soils    Soils     Soils    Soils
(ton/ha7-     (M$/ton)      (M$/ha)               T/ h aT          (!T/haT)
N!ain Season
1967       1,.28    0. 77    43        567      341         75       63       1,92     278
19t68      1.28     0.77    17       611       367         80       66       531      301
1969       1.85     1.11    389        720      316         85       70       635      21.!6
1970D      1.76     1.06    28''      502       302         93       77       Lo9      225
1971       1.87     1.12    25h        479      287         99       84       380      203
1972       1.96     1.18    3017      6 o'      362        120       98       h82      261
1973       2.34     1.40     L28    1,001       599        131      101,      870      L95
1971       2.12     1.27    711      1,507      903        1L6      11.6    1, 361     787
19r7       2.20     1 30    59,1    1,307       772        150      124     1,157      648
1976       2.30     1.30    538     1,237       699        155      130     1,082      569
1977       2.1,0    1o1,o   481     1,154       673        160      135       994      538
1978       2.50     1.40    L18     1,045       585        165      137       880      1148
1979       2.60     1.50    367        9514     550        170      1140      781      410
1980 etlc.  2.60    1.50    3L2       889       513        175      110       71)4     373
Off 3eazo-i
1967       1.75       -      LI .3     775       -          85       -        358
1968       1,75       -     177       835        -          90       -        387
1969       2.3.      -       389    1,23         _          95       -      1,118
1970       2.20       -     285     1,258        -         100       -      1,158
1971       2.33      -      256        596       -         105       -        485       _
1972       2.4,5    1.57    307        752    1,181        110       93       6142   1,088
1973       2.93     1.87     428     1,251      800        120      100     1,13h1     700
19714      2.65     1.70     711     1,88,4   1,209        135      111     1,773    1,098
1975       2.70     1.70    5912     1,605    1,010        11,5     120     1,L60      890
1976       2.80     1.80    538     1,506       968        155      125     1,351      803
1977       2.90     1.80     1,81    1,395      866        160      130     1,235      736
1978       3.00     1.90     L,18    1,254      794        165      135     1,089      659
1979       3.10     1.90     367    1,138       697        170      140       9683     W57
1980 etc.  3.20     2.00     34,2   1,09;,      684        175      140       889      541;



MALAYS IA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prowect Area Total Labor Demand
January    February      March        April       May        June         July       August     September   October      November     December     Total
(hcs)      (hrs)       (hra)        (braS)     (hra)       (hrs)        (lira)      (hra)       (hrs)      (hrs)         (hra)       (hrs)       (hrs)
Padi Farm Labor                   w     v        w      w  w           w    w                              0 w *             w      0    w w         w w         w w         w * w         w
Nursery (per ha)                                               35                                        17           17                35                                         34     70
Land Preparation (per ha)                                                 143                                         86          86               143                            172    286
Transplanting (per ha)                                                                272                                        136         136                272               272    544
Fertilizer Application etc.(per ha)                                        20                       10                 5                       5    20                       10    10     60
Weeding (per ha)                 5     20                                                           20          20                                          5          5     20    15     80
Harvesting (per ha)                         131   200   131   200                                                           235        235                                        262    870
Other Work (per ha)                                            20          20                                         30          15    20          20                             45     80
TOTAL (per ha)                5     20   131   200   131   255         183         272           30    17    20   138    235   237  290   141   183      5   272    5     30   810   1990
Project Area Total ('000)-'
Demand for Padi Farm   Labor     103    360  2366  3600  2584  4335    70  3111   110  4624    11   510   331    340  2707   3995  4613 4927  2749  3294   205 4896   106     560 16155  34552
Other Farm Work ('000)-'         495    495   150   495   150   237   150   237   367   495   367    710   150   710   150    495   150  237   150   237   495   495  495     495  3269   5338
Tobacco ('000)-/                 138    120   138   120   403   350   403   350   242   210   242   210    138   120   138    120   403  350   403   350   242    210  242    210  3132   2720
Rubber ('000)_'                 360     360   360   360   360   360   360   360   360   360   360   360   360    360   360    360   360  360   360   360   360   360  360     360  4320   4320
Off-Farm Work ('000)_'          2288   1290   538   323   538   323  1613   323  1613   323   1613  1290  1613  1290   538    323   538  323   538   323  2288    323 2288   1290 16006   7744
Other Regular Emp ( 000)i'       350    700   350   700   350   700   350   700   350   700    350   700   350   700   350    700   350  700   350   700   350    700  350    700  4200   8400
TOTAL ('000)                3734   3325  4102  5598  4385  6305 2946   5081  3042  6712  2943  3780   2942  3520  4243   5993  6414 6897  4550  5264  3940   6984 3841   3615 47082  63074
0  -  without project;     w  - with project.
a/ Monthly totals for the 0 situation include labor requirements for 500 ha cropped in the off-season.                                                                                         H 5
b/ Includes time spent maintaining farm buildings and attending to livestock.                                                                                                                    F
cl Based on two crops per year each requiring 6,800 man hours per ha.
dt  Based on a monthly requirement of 50 hours per ha.
et  Casual employment of all types including work in Kadah undertaken via seasonal migration
ft Estimated to be that portion of the labor force permanently and regularly employed.
This is expected to have doubled    by 1980.



MALAYS I A
LOAN 500-MA: KlMUBIJ IRRIGA!I'ON PROJECT
Total Annual Opportun.ty Costs for Proiect Farm Labor
ja way      Febr-ary      March        April         May        June        Ju   w      Algust     September    October     November    December     Total
1otal Pro j.Le Arca 1boond -
Ior Far labor
(.illio- man (ro.rs)       0.24  (.48   2.70  3.72  2.99  4.b9  0.47  3.46  0.35   4.83   0.25  0.72  0.47  0.46  2.85  4.12   5.02  5.28  3.15  3.64  0.45  5.11  0.35  0.77   19.29 37.27
Marginal opport orri ty- Cost
(M$ per hour)             0.155 0.150  0.160 0.170  0.160 0.260  0.145 0.170  0.150  0.310  0.145 0.150  0.145 0.150  0.160 0.220  0.270 0.330  0.160 0.170  0.155 0.350  0.155 0.150  -  -
Average Opportunity Cost
(M1$ per hour)            0.140 0.135  0.145 0.145 (0.145 0.166  0.130 01145 0.135  0.160  0.130 0.135  0.130 0.135  0.145 0.147  0.167 0.165  0.145 0.145  0.140 0.170  0.140 0.135  -  -
Total Imputed Cost
(M$ '000)                33.6  64.8   391.5 539.4  433.6 778.5  61.1 501.7  47.3  772.8  32.5  97.2  61.1  62.1  413., 605.6  838.3 871.2  456.8  527.8 63.0 868.7  49.0 104.0  2881.1 5793.8
.= Without project
w!  =   ith project
a/ S-oo of Padi Farm and Tobacco labor streams from Table 2.



MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: IEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
a;               ----------    ---------------------------------- Benefits MS Million IL ----------------------------------_-----------
-- Costs MS }lillion -------                        Net   Value   of   Production
costs M$ Wilion -------Main Season                           Off-Season                         Total           Total
Construction     061      Total          Normal Soils  Foot Soil     Normal soils   poor soils   Tobacco        Labor Costs     Benefits          Net Benefits
i   w  v     v       v      w      0     '       0    v               v w             w
1967           2.3          --        2.3           8.36  8.36   0.56  0.56     0.35   0.35   --    --     1.70  1.70    2.80   2.80     8.17   8.17           - 2.3
1
1968           6.9          __        6.9           6.75  6.75   0.44  0.44     0.37  0.37   __    __      1.45  1.45    2.80   2.80     6.21   6.21           - 6.9
1969          22.8                   22.8          10.80  10.80  0.72  0.72     0.40   0.40   --   --      1.29  1.29    2.80   2.80     10.41  10.41         - 22.8
1970          21.3          _,       21.3           6.95  6.95   0.45  0.45     0.26   0.26   --   --      1.34  1.34    2.80   2.80     6.20   6.20          - 21.3
1971          13.8          __       13.8           6.46  6.46   0.41  0.41.    0.25   0.25   --   --      2.33  2.33    2.83   2.83     6.62   6.62          - 13.8
1972           7.9          2.0       9.9           8.25  8.19   0.53  0.40     0.32   6.36   --   0.43    2.41  1.95    2.83   4.92     8.68  12.41          - 6.2
1973           3.0          2.4       5.4          13.31  14.81  0,82  0.50     0.47  14.41   --    1.02   1.53  0.96    2.85    5.35    13.28  26.35         +  7.7
1974           --           3.0       3.0          21.78  23.14  1.48 0.63      0.82  24.86   --    1.73   2.27  1.06    2.85    5.57    23.50  45.85         + 19.4
1975           --           3.0       3.0          17.95  19.67  1.21  0.52     0.68  20.72   --   1.42    2.71  1.26   '2.85   5.57    19.70  38.02          + 15.3
1976           --           3.0       3.0          15.98  18.39  1.06  0.46     0.63  19.18   --   1.35    3.09  1.39    2.85   5.57    17.91  35.20          + 14.3
1977           --           3.0       3.0          14.82  16.90  0.92  0.48     0.58  18.28        1.21    3.34  1.50    2.85   5.70    16.81  32.67          + 12.9
1978           --           3.0       3.0          12.56  14.96  0.76  0.40     0.49  16.12  __    1.09    3.85  1.64    2.88   5.70    14.78  28.51          + 10.7
1979           --           3.0       3.0          11.34  13.33  0.71  0.37     0.44  14.33   _    0.95    4.24  1.77    2.88   5.70     13.85  25.05         + 8.2
1980           --           3.0       3.0          10.39  12.14  0.64  0.37     0.40  14.06   --   0.92    4.76  1.90    2.88   5.79     13.31  23.60         +  7.3
1985           3.5 _/       3.0       6.5          10.39  12.14  0.64  0.37     0.40  14.36   --   0.92    4.76  1.90    2.88    5.79    13.31  23.60         +  3.8
1986           --           3.0       3.0          10.39  12.14  0.64  0.37     0.40  14.06   --    0.92   4.76  1.90    2.88    5.79    13.31  23.60         +  7.3
2000           --           3.0       3.0          10.39  12.14  0.64  0.37     0.40  14.)6   --    0.92   4.76  1.90    2.88    5.79    13.31  43.60         + 27.3
A4
ESTIMATED  RATE  OF  RETURN 10.51.
-I>
v  - without project
w  - with project
a! All valuesin constant 1974 M$.
b/ Expenditure of M$0.3 m in 1963 and M$1.0 m in 1964 have been cotpounded at 8% per annum
and included in costs for 1967.
c/ The pumps in the Kemubu Pump House are expected to need replacement in 1985 at a cost of M$3.5 m.
d/ The salvage value of the project in the year 2000 is estimated at MS20.0 m.



MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-bA: KI-MNUU IRRTGATION PROJEC'I'
Farm Budgets (Constant 174 M$)
--    -  1967    -           ------- -1980                                 ------ ------ ----------------------
Tenanc        Owner                                Tenant                                   Owner
MS           M$                                   mS                                       M$
Padi Area (ha)                   0.89         0.89                                  0.89
Other Crops & House Lot (ha)     0.32 a/      0.32                                  0.32 _/                                 0.32
Family Sizc                      5.10         5.10                                  5.10                                    5.10
Main Season   Main Season        Main Season      Off-Season      Annual     Main Season    Off-Season       Annual
Seed/Seedlings                  14.25         13.20            13.00            13.00         26.00         12.00         12.00          24.00
Nursery Fertilizer               __ b/         __  b/           6.00             6.00         12.00          9.00          9.00          18.00
Land Preparation                22.54          1.42            46.00            46.00         92.00         24.00         24.00          48.00
Field Fertilizer                18.08         23.15            38.00            40.00        78.00          46.00         50.00          96.00
Ag Chemicals                     --            --               8.00             8.00         16.00          10.00         10.00         20.00
Hired Labor                     26.13         59.93            45.00            45.00         90.00         90.00         90.00         180.00
Land Tax                         __            3.30                                                                                      26.00
Rent -                         175.00          --               --               --          885.00          --            --             --
Zakat _/                         __            8.00            53.00            68.00        121.00         76.00         92.00         168.00
256.00        109.00             --               --        1,320.00          --                         580.00
Yield ton/ha                     1.15          1.40             2.40             2.80          5.20          3.00          3.40           6.40
Farmgate Price M$/ton          363.00        363.00           385.00           385.00        385.00        385.00        385.00         385.00
Gross PadL Farm Income         371.50        452.00           924.00         1,078.00      2,002.00       1,155.00      1,309.00      2,464.00
Net Padi Farm Income           115.50        343,00             __               __          682.00           --            --         1,884.00
Other Crop Income -e           103.00        130.00             __               __          103.00          --            --           120.00
home Production                129.00        129.00            -_               __          129.00           __            __           129.00
Off-Farm lncoc,:               450.00        320.00             --               --          350.00 -         --                        240.00
TOTAL NET INCOMF           797;50        922.a0                                        1,264.00                                    2,373.00
859.50 ) 8!                                               ( 1,999.00 ) 8!
a/ Assumed to he owned.
b/ Included in Field Fertilizer.
of Calculated as half the crop less the cost of seed and fertilizer.
df  Religious tax levied at 67, per annum on value of gross production in excess of 400 gantangs (1.0? tons).
e/ Tncluding sales of livestock products and rent income from draft animals.
f/ Reduced in the light of experience from Muda.
,/ Net income if rents set at levels specified in Padi Cultivators Act 1967.



ANNEX 5
rabl,e 7
MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Size Distribution
No. of     % Number      Total Area
Farm Size (acres)      Farms      of Farms       (acres)       % Total Area
0 - 0.99             2,170      10.1            820              1,8
1 - 1.99            6,230       28.9          7,950             16.8
2 - 2.99             6,520      30.3         13,700             28.9
3 - 3.99             3,810      17.7         11,510             24.3
4 - 4.99             1,610       7.5          6,570             13.9
5 - 5.99               590       2.7          3,010              6.4
6 - 6.99               380       1.8          2,370              5.0
7 plus                 190       0.9          1,370              2.9
TOTAL            21,500     100.0         47,300            100.0



I.T-!!! c
MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Labor Supply and Demand
7.0
Labor SuPPIy
(assumed constant
betwee,n 1967 and
1980 as a resull of
6 0                                                                                             out-M gration)
5.0                                             _                                             -_1980 Demand
1967 Demand
E
-                              I
30
ro
LL   2.0
1.0
t  .  I    l       l      l       l~    ~ I  I     __   1       1      1
J      F      M       A       M          J          A       S      0       N      D
Mlonth
World Bank-9539



MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: KEMUBU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Marginal Opportunity Cost
of Farm Labor
0.4
0.3
0 G)
oo -
*9     0.2
CL
00
0.1
_,'     ~~~I   '       I             l                                 I                        -         I.
0             1            2              3            4             5             6             7             8             9
Farm Labor Demand
(million man-hours/month)
World Bank-9540      1D






m           L<_ 
m C    
cr2                         1/
> 



