FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For PubLic Use
Report No. 24 A-TH
APPRAISAL OF
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
THAILAND
March 16, 1973
Agriculture Division
Asia Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
Iaccuracy Or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        -   Baht (B) 20.8
BI             -    US$0.048
US$1.00 million-    B 20,800,000
B1 million     -    US$48,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 hectare (ha)      n   2.47 acres-6.25 rai
1 kilometer (kim)    -    0.62 miles
1 meter (i)         -    3.28 feet
1 million cubic
meters (Mn3)      -    810 acre feet
1 ton               -    1,000 kg - 2,205 pounds
ACRNYMS
MAAC      a   Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
NEDECO    -    A Netherlands Consulting Group
RD1       -    A High-Yielding Rice Variety
RID       -    Royal Irrigation Department
USBR      -    United States Bureau of Reclamation
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................... i-iii
1.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................    1
II.   BACKGROUND ............................................        1
Gene'ral    .....................  .....................
The Agricultural Sector .....       .....................    2
Development in the Chao Phya Plain ...............       2
III.   THE PROJECT AREA    ................................           5
General         ..........................................    5
Climate ........................                         5
Soils, Topography and Drainage .............             5
Farm Size and Land Tenure ................               6
Existing Irrigation Facilities           .      .        6
Agricultural Production ...................              6
Transportation and Marketing ..............               7
Pilot Projects .....................                      7
IV.   THE PROJECT                                           .....    8
Description   ......................................     8
Project Works .......      .............................    8
Second Stage Study ......     ...................         9
Water Supply, Demand and Quality .................        9
Engineering Design ......      .........................   10
Cost Estimates          ...................................   10
Financing ........      ...............................   11
Procurement .       . ....................................   11
Disbursements         ....................................   12
Accotints and Audits ...................... . ........   13
Project in Relation to Ecological Conditions             13
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................  13
Project Management and Coordination .............   .   13
Consultants' Services ......      ......................   15
Implementation of Project Works ........ ..........  15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed of
Messrs. A.A. Meimaris, A.J. Otten (IDA), D. Benor, and P. Judd (consultants).
Mr. P. Whitford also made a material contribution to the preparation of the report.



-2-
Page No-
Supporting Agricultural Services ........ ..           16
Operation and Maintenance ........................  17
Recovery of Costs .. .......................   18
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARMERS'
INCOME ..................                                 20
Production ...............   20
Market Prospects ................  21
Prices ........ 21
Farmers' Income    .     ................... . ....   22
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............................   22
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ..................................   24
ANNEXES
1.   Climatological Data
2.   Project Works
3.   Second Stage Study
4.   Water Supply, Demand, and Quality
5., Cost Estimates
6.   Equipment List
7.   Schedules of Expenditures and Disbursements
8.   Organization and Management
9.   Consultants' Services
10.   Supporting Agricultural Services
11.   Operation and Maintenance
12.   Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
13.   Marketing and Prices
14.   Crop and Farm Budgets
15.   Economic Analysis
CHARTS AND MAPS
Construction Schedule - Chart No. 7478
Proposed Project
Organization          -  Chart No. 7479
Location Map           -  IBRD - 10202
Project Map            -  IBRD - 10203(R)



THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an irrigation project in the Northern Chao
Phya Plain, for which IDA assistance of US$5.5 million is proposed. The
project is part of a Government program to expand double cropping in the
Plain with an additional 200,000 ha over the next ten years. It would
enable an increase in wet-season rice yields as well as the cultivation of
rice and some upland crops during the dry season, by utilizing water stored
by the Bhumiphol Dam (Loan 175-TH) and the Sirikit Dam (Loan 514-TH). It
would be the Bank Group's fifth :Lrrigation development project in the Plain
and its seventh operation in the agricultural sector, all of them related to
irrigation, totalling US$141 million.
ii.       The production of rice, the country's basic food crop and the
largest export earner, grew by about 3% per annum during the last decade,
barely in line with the growth in population. Furthermore, over half of
this increase was achieved by an expansion of cultivation into new areas
rather than by an increase in yields. As the opportunities for opening up
new areas have become increasingly limited, most of the increase in rice
production in the future, necessary mainly to satisfy domestic requirements,
will have to be met by increased productivity.
iii.      The Chao Phya Plain is the country's most productive agricultural
area, accounting for about 65% of the total irrigable land and 20% of total
rice production. The area is eminently suited for rice cultivation as it
has good soils, an established milling and marketing industry and easy
access to the country's main urban centers. Large-scale investments, in-
cluding four Bank loans, have been made over the past twenty years for the
construction of the main irrigation and drainage system in the Northern Chao
Phya Plain, and two storage dams to provide water for dry-season irrigation.
These investments have extended the area under cultivation and increased
wet-season rice yields in the Plain, but dry-season irrigation has not been
extended at a pace commensurate with the building of water storage works.
Several studies as well as two pilot projects carried out in the vicinity
of the project area, have pointed out the need for additional investments
in the main irrigation system as well as the necessity tc build a distribution
network at farm level, in order to achieve a satisfactory increase in double
cropping.
iv.       The proposed project would involve rehabilitation of the secondary
irrigation and drainage systems as well as the construction of farm roads
and on-farm works, including realignment of farm boundaries and land leveling,
and would serve about 17,000 ha in two non-contiguous areas. It would also
include supportiag services for extension, research, seed multiplication,
credit and training. In addition, in view of the urgency to expand double
cropping to meet the projected increase in demand, a feasibility study for a
second stage project covering about 50,000 ha would be carried out under this
project.



- ii -
v.        Taking into account recent currency realignments, the estimated
project cost is US$10.6 million, with an estimated foreign exchange component
of US$5.5 million, or 52% of the total. IDA financing would cover all foreign
expenditures, the loca, costs being financed by the Government.  The total cost
of equipment to be put to international competitive bidding would be US$2.0
million. About 75% of the on-farm works, which total US$2.5 million, would be
constructed by force account. The remaining works would be constructed by
contract but cannot be grouped to be attractive to international contractors.
Therefore, tenders would be advertised locally in accordance with normal
Government contracting procedures. Rehabilitation works (US$1.4 million),
involving repairs scattered throughout the project area, would not be suitable
for contract work. They would therefore be executed by force account. Build-
ings (US$0.3 million), to be tendered locally, management and consultants
(US$1.9 million), second stage study (US$0.6 million), and contingencies
(US$1.9 million) account for the balance of project costs. The construction
period would be four years.
vi.       Unt:il recently the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) of the
Ministry of National Development was responsible for the construction
aspects of irrigation projects, while supporting sevices to farmers were
provided by the Ministry of Agriculture. Most of the emphasis, however,
was placed on constructing major works while little was invested in the farm
distribution networks and few efforts were made to establish an efficient
field organization for agricultural supporting services. Furthermore,
coordination between the various Government Departments dealing with irri-
gated agriculture was poor. The shortcomings of this situation have become
increasingly apparent in recent years and, in an effort to accelerate
irrigated development, the Government decided in 1972 to bring RID under
the Ministry of Agriculture thus making one ministry responsible for all
development stages of irrigation projects. In line with this approach, the
Government has appointed the Deputy Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture
as Project Director. Under him, a field project manager would be employed
and competent staff assigned from various Departments of the Ministry of
Agriculture to help ensure an integrated approach to development. A central
policy committee would formulate policies and coordinate activities. A
consulting firm would assist with project implementation and the preparation
of the second stage study and would also provide in-service training.
vii.      The main direct impact of the project would be an increased produc-
tion of rice and, to a lesser extent, of soybeans, mungbeans and peanuts.
The net annual value of production is expected to reach B 80 million at full
development, eight years after project commencement, compared with a current
level of about B 33 million. At forecast world market prices, the economic
rate of return on the project would be about 15%. A sensitivity analysis
indicates that, under a number of adverse conditions, the return would not
be less than 12%. Even if past investments in the irrigation system and
storage works are taken into account, the rate of return still exceeds 11%.
In a broader context, the project is expected to pioneer a more effective
approach to water management, to demonstrate the benefits of more intensive
cropping and to introduce a measure of agricultural diversification in the
Chao Phya Plain.



- iii -
viii.     With 6,600 families in the project area and mostly small farm
holdings, the available labor force is grossly under-utilized. The project
would almost triple employment opportunities from a present level of about
5,000 man-years to 14,000 man-years, all of which would be met by the
under-employed labor force of the region. Annual export earnings and import
savings at the end of the construction period would amount to B 20 million
(US$1.0 million) and reach B 34 million (US$1.6 million) at full
development. Rice production in the project area is expected to rise
from 36,000 tons to 100,000 tons per annum. Per capita income on a farm
of average size would increase from about US$50 per annum to a figure
between US$75 and US$170 per annum, depending on whether single or double
cropping is practised.
ix.       The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$5.5 million.  The
borrower would be the Kingdom of Thailand.






THAILAND
CRAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Thailand has requested IDA assistance in financing
the construction of the Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project. This would
be the seventh Bank Group operation for promoting irrigated agriculture in
Thailand, and the fifth project for improving irrigation facilities in the
Chao Phya Plain. The four previous projects and their results are described
in Chapter II.
1.02      Studies initiated under the Sirikit Dam Project (Loan 514-TH)
included investigations which produced a development program for the rapid
introduction of dry-season cropping in the Northern Chao Phya Plain. These
investigations, carried out by NEDECO Consulting Engineers of the Netherlands,
and the results over the past three years from two on-going pilot projects
on about 2,500 ha, provided the basic data for project appraisal.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of a mission that visited
Thailand in June-July 1972, comprising Messrs. A.A. Meimaris and A.J. Otten
(IDA), and D. Benor and P. Judd (consultants). Mr. Whitford also made a
material contribution to the preparation of the report.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Thailand's territory extends over 514,000 km ; almost one-fourth
is cropland and one-half forest and grazing land. Its population, which
current estimates put at more than 37 million, increased by 3.1% a year
during the 1960's, but the official population policy should bring this
growth rate down to 2.5% towards the end of the 1970's. Despite the high
rate of population growth, the material progress of individuals was substan-
tial during the 1960's since GDP growth averaged 8% a year in real terms,
mainly because of large increases in exports and investment. More recently,
however, GDP growth has slowed down markedly to around 6% a year. A large
share of investment in the past went into industry and services, which were
the leading growth sectors. Agriculture grew more slowly (5.4% a year between
1960-62 and 1970-72) and with wider fluctuations from year to year mainly due
to changes in weather conditions; still, agriculture produced a large and
increasing surplus for export. Per capita GNP was $186 in 1971 with large
regional differences, a result of the concentration of past public and espe-
cially private irvestments in the Bangkok area.



-2-
The Agricultural Sector
2.02      While the agricultural sector's share in gross domestic product
is only 28%, it employs close to 80% of the total labor force and accounts
for 70% of total exports. Rice is the country's staple food crop with
consumption averaging around 160 kg per year, among the highest in the
world. Paddy production increased during the 1960's at an average rate of,
3% per year and presently stands at a level of 13.6 million tons. Although
most rice is consumed locally, Thailand is a major rice exporter; in 1971,
1.6 million tons of rice, or about one-sixth of total production, was ex-
ported. While rice is still the country's largest single export commodity,
its share in total exports declined from 33% in 1965 to 17% in 1971 mainly
because of a sharp fall in prices since 1969. Exports of other products
such as maize, tapioca and tobacco, increased rapidly.
2.03      On the basis of the Bank's projections, Thailand can expect only
a limited growth in rice exports during the next decade. Furthermore,
export prices are not expected to recover appreciably from the low levels
of 1970 and 1971. On the other hand, paddy production would still have to
be raised by 4 million tons over the next decade, or an annual compounded
growth rate of about 2.5%, in order to satisfy increased domestic require-
ments. More importantly most of this would have to come from increased
productivity, as only limited opportunities exist for the opening up of new
lands under rice, a process which accounted for a significant amount of the
total production inicrease in the 1960's. Moreover, new lands could be more
economically devoted to nonrice crops for which a strong export potential
exists. Increased productivity will also be necessary to maintain Thailand's
competitive position in the world rice trade.
Development in the Chao Phya Plain
2.04      One of Thailand's main river systems is formed by the Chao Phya
and its tributaries. The Chao Phya River flows in a north-south direction
through Central Thailand and branches off below Chainat into several deltaic
distributaries before reaching the sea. The triangular shaped area of flat
land with the apex at Chainat, and the base along the northern coast of the
Gulf of Thailand, covers an area of approximately one million ha and is
commonly known as the Chao Phya Plain 1/. Waters from the river system flood
the Chao Phya Plain every year and farmers have traditionally used the flood-
aters to grow wet-season rice; one-fifth of Thailand's rice crop is produced
in this area.
2.05      The Chao Phya Plain has traditionally had a two-fold water problem.
Firstly, the river floods were irregular both in timing and in height, account-
ing for large fluctuations in crop yields from one year to another and,
1/   The Chao Phya Plain is divided into a Northern region where lands are
generally over 4.5 meters above sea level (700,000 ha) and a lower
Southern region (300,000 ha).



secondly, almost no cropping was possible during the dry season for lack of
water. To cope with these problems, considerable investments have been made
since 1950 and the Bank has extended four loans to assist in these phases of
development.
2.06      The first of the recent phases in water control in the Plain was
the construction of Chainat diversion dam, and a system of main canals and
drains, completed in 1957 and partially financed by a Bank loan of US$18
million (36-TH). The system was designed to reduce damage from flooding by
facilitating the drainage of excess waters, and to provide water for supple-
mentary irrigation during dry spells in the wet season. This system was
further extended with the construction of a water distribution network which
started in 1963 with the assistance of a Bank loan of US$5.6 million (328-TH)
and was completed in 1970. The system now covers the entire northern part
of the Chao Phya Plain.
2.07      The second phase of development, the expansion of dry-season crop-
ping, was initiated with the construction of the Bhumiphol dam oii the Ping
River, the westernmost tributary of the Chao Phya. The dam, financed with
a Bank loan of US$66 million, was completed in 1964. It provides hydroelec-
tric power and permits the storage of monsoon flow, sufficiert for double-
cropping of 220,000 ha in the Plain. Finally, the completion of the Sirikit
dam on the Nan River, the easternmost tributary of the Chao Phya, would
secure additional water supply for an extension of double cropping on 380,000
ha in the Plain or in the Nan River Valley (allocated at present to 180,000 ha
in the Plain and 200,000 ha in the Nan Valley). The Sirikit dam, financed
with a Bank loan of US$26 million (514-TH), came into operation during 1972.
2.08      The potential benefits of these water regulation works on agricul-
tural development have not been fully achieved. Better drainage and flood
control enabled a shift from broadcast to transplanted rice, especially on
higher land in the Northern Chao Phya Plain, and reduced damage from flooding.
The major result of the past investment has been an expansion of areas under
rice and an overall increase of rice yields during the wet season. The ex-
pansion of dry-season irrigation, however, has been slow; by 1972, the dry-
season cultivated area totalled about 110,000 ha in the entire Plain, as
against an available water supply sufficient to irrigate 220.000 ha (400,000
ha after completion of the Sirikit dam). The main causes for slow growth in
double cropping have been analyzed in several studies carried out under Loan
514-TH and can be summarized as follows: (a) the main irrigation canals were
designed to handle wet-season flows and are unable in most areas to deliver
dry-season gravity irrigation, without the construction of additional check
structures (Annex 2); (b) the absence of a distribution network to deliver
irrigation water at farm level, which has limited dry-season cropping to areas
adjacent to the main canals; and (c) the necessity for a realignment of farm
boundaries in most areas to enable a rational layout of the distribution net-
work. These deficiencies result from irrigation design concepts aiming at
low-cost, wet season water control on areas which had previously relied on
natural inundation. The time has now come for taking this water control a



-4-
stage further. In fact, the need for additional investments to upgrade the
existing irrigation network to permit dry season cultivation was recognized
prior to construction of the Sirikit dam and the economic analysis of the
dam included an allowance for such investments.
2.09      Realizing the need to extend double cropping in the command areas
of the Bhumiphol and Sirikit Dams, in order to realize fully the potential
benefits from those projects and to increase rice production for domestic
needs, the Government has embarked upon a ten-year program to introduce
double cropping on an additional 200,000 ha in the Plain. The first step in
this program was the pilot projects described below (para 3.11). The success
of these pilot projects, together with the studies financed by Loan 514-TH,
form the basis for the present project on 17,000 ha. This is expected to be
followed in about two years' time by a second stage project covering about
50,000 ha, for which a feasibility study is included in this project. The
next immediate stage of development would be the Phitsanulok Irrigation
Project, which is under consideration by the Bank. The first phase of this
project, which is located in the Nan River Valley below Sirikit dam, would
provide irrigation to about 38,000 ha during the dry season ard an assured
water supply to about 72,000 ha during the wet season. Together these three
projects would go a long way towards meeting the Government's objective of
accelerating the introduction of double cropping.
2.10      Thailand must increase its rice production if it is to meet its
increasing domestic requirements (para. 2.03). Investments in additional
production capacity should logically be located in the command area of the
Bhumiphol and Sirikit Dams. Intensification of land use through irrigation
in the Chao Phya Plain is justified for the following reasons:
(a) rice can be produced here more cheaply than in other
regions of the country;
(b) the Plain's heavy soils are well suited for rice
cultivation;
(c) the area is served by a well established and efficiently
working rice milling industry and marketing system;
(d) increased cropping intensities will increase the scope
for expansion of other field crops, where soils are
suitable, thus promoting long-run crop diversificatlon; and
(e) past investments have already created an infrastructure
enabling increases in double cropping with relatively low
additional investments.



- 5 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project area covers about 17,000 ha, located in the Northern
Chao Phya Plain, about 200 km north of Bangkok and 30 km downstream of the
Chainat diversion dam on the Chao Phya River (see Map IBRD 10202). The
project covers two non-contiguous areas of 8,500 ha each in the districts
of Sanburi and Bangrachan (see Map IBRD 10203) together with the headworks
and main canals serving the two areas. These areas are broadly representative
of conditions prevailing in the Northern Chao Phya Plain and can therefore
serve as testing grounds for improved water management and agricultural
practices. Other reasons for choosing these particular areas include their
proximity to the successful pilot projects, the existence of a newly-
rehabilitated primary canal system, and the fact that each area lies within
a single administrative district.
Climate
3.02      The climate is tropical with monthly average temperatures ranging
from 25°C in December to 30° in April. Rainfall is concentrated in the
monsoon season from May to October when the southwest monsoon occurs in the
form of cyclonic storms causing heavy but irregular rainfall. In some years
there are two or three weeks of drought in June and July which is the begin-
ning of the transplanting season when supplementary irrigaticn is most needed.
The annual average rainfall of about 1,200 mm is sufficient for a wet-season
rice crop but with substantial risks of crop failure. Little dry-season crop-
ping is possible without irrigation. Details on climate are presented in
Annex 1.
Soils, Topography and Drainage
3.03      The project area is part of the flat alluvial plain between the
Suphan and Noi Rivers. Since the area has been under rice cultivation for
over 50 years, large tracts of paddy fields are already leveled. However,
a microrelief of levees and basins, shallow abandoned river channels and
alluvial or lake deposit terraces, dissect the land. The general slope is
to the south at about 0.2m per km, but the lateral slope away from the rivers
is steeper (up to 0.5m per km). Drainage is achieved through natural channels
and a system of main drainage canals, but because of insufficient maintenance
the flow of water is seriously impeded by weeds and siltation, and drainage
conditions are poor.
3.04      Soils are derived principally from mixed riverine alluvium.  The
lower-lying and basin soils, which cover about 80% of the area, are heavy
textured clay loams or clays, with poor aeration and low permeability; they
are well suited for paddy production but only marginal for other crops.
Soils on the river banks and higher lying ridges, which cover the remaining



- 6 -
20% of the area, are mostly medium textured and better drained; with irri-
gation, they offer the best potential for the production of crops other
than rice in the dry season. In general, the soils are only slightly acid
and low in soluble salts and exchangeable sodium. With adequate drainage
facillties there is no salinity or alkali hazard under irrigation.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.05      About 6,600 families, averaging six members per family, or a total
farm population of nearly 40,000 live in the project area. The average farm
size is small - 2,5 ha, with 85% of the farms (comprising 64% of the area)
having less than 4 ha. Most holdings are fragmented into two or three plots
and it is not uncommon to find one plot located in the low lying broadcast
rice area and another in the better drained transplanted rice area. The
degree of fragmentation, however, is not too serious and only a realignment
Of farm boundaries is required to enable a more rational layout of the
distribution network. Most farmers are able to cultivate their land with
the help of their families and use hired labor (about 15% of total labor
needs) only at peak periods. About 95% of all farms in the project area
are owner-operated; such a high percentage is common in the Northern Chao
Phya Plain, but decreases substantially toward the Southern Plain, where
tenant farmers prevail.
3.06      Only a small percentage of the cultivated area under the project is
presently covered by rights of occupancy recognized for legal transfer or as
security for credit. Cadastral surveys and realignment of farm boundaries
to be carried out as part of the project would permit the issuance of such
land titles (para 5.09).
Existing Irrigation Facilities
3.07      The Northern Chao Phya Plain is under the command of a main canal
and drainage system, running in a general north-south direction, with laterals
at 2 km intervals along the contours.  The main effect of this system has
been a more rapid drainage of wet-season floods, resulting in a shift from
late maturing broadcast rice varieties to transplanted short duration varie-
ties, leading to yield increases of between 0.3 and 0.6 tons per ha.  Although
the system was also intended to enable supplementary gravity irrigation during
dry spells in the transplanting season, this has only been achieved in cer-
tain areas while in others pumping is necessary because of the low water
level in the canals due to insufficient regulation structures. In addition,
unimproved natural channels are used in places as irrigation and drainage
canals, resulting in water losses and poor drainage over extensive areas.
Agricultural Production
3.08      The project area is characterized by a traditional rice monoculture
during the wet season. A range of native rice varieties are grown which vary
in duration, straw length, and ability to withstand deep flooding. Where
some measure of water control is achieved (about 60% of the land) short-
duration varieties are transplanted from June to August, yielding an average
2.3 tons per ha. In the remaining area, largely low-lying lands, late



maturing varieties ale broadcast on land plowed with the first rains in
April-May in order to have seedlings established before the arrival of the
flood waters. Yields of broadcast rice average 1.9 tons per ha. The low
yields are the result of inadequate water control, poor cultivation methods,
use of low quality seeds, and low levels of fertilizer and pesticide appli-
cation. With the exception of contract plowing in the dry season and final
land preparation with buffalo, all farm operations are carried out by hand.
Since the rice varieties used are photosensitive, harvesting is concentrated
in late November to January. Despite the peak in labor requirements and
the rise in wage rates at this time, little mechanizatior. has occurred,
beyond occasionally substituting a tractor for the buffalo on the threshing
floor. In the dry-season only about 2% of the area is cropped, largely to
sesame and mungbean, broadcast with the March-April rains, in the hope of
obtaining some returns before planting the wet season rice. Without irri-
gation, however, yields are low at around 0.6 tons per ha.
Transportation and Marketing
3.09      The Northern Chao Phya Plain has good access to its main markets;
transportation facilities, including main highways, railways and navigable
canals and rivers, are adequate. While feeder roads along the main canals
in the project area are adequate for year-round transportation, additional
farm roads are needed, especially in areas of double cropping where harvested
rice would have to be transported during the wet season.
3.10      The existing rice marketing system and milling industry are well
established. About 35 mills are located in the Northern Chao Phya Plain and
as they only use about half of their milling capacity every year, sufficient
capacity exists to accommodate the expected increase in production from the
project. The marketing structure for upland crops such as soybeans, mungbeans
and peanuts is much less developed, as only small amounts of these crops are
produced. Increased production of these crops under the project would be
mainly channelled to the existing edible oil industry.
Pilot Projects
3.11      Following the studies carried out under Loan 514-TH, two pilot
projects (Chanasutr and Sappaya) were carried out on a total of about 2,500
ha between 1969 and 1972 with bilateral assistance. They involved the con-
struction of a dense network of farm irrigation and drainage ditches, land
leveling, as well as a realignment of farm boundaries. The realignment was
achieved with the voluntary participation of farmers. Despite only limited
assistance from the Extension Department of the Ministry of Agriculture,
both projects succeeded in introducing double cropping over 80% of the area,
mainly with high yielding rice varieties, within three years from project
commencement. The positive response of the farmers and requests from other
areas in the vicinity to expand this type of project, encouraged the Govern-
ment to plan for the extension of dry-season irrigation in the Plain to an
additional 200,000 ha over the next ten years. The present project would
be the first stage in this development and would provide on a sufficiently
large scale the necessary field experience to guide the future development
of double cropping.



IV. THE PROJECT
Description
4.01      The proposed project would improve irrigation facilities and
supporting services to farmers in an area of about 17,000 ha in the Northern
Chao Phya Plain. This would enable an increase in wet-season rice yields as
well as the cultivation of rice and some upland crops during the dry season.
The project would include:
(a)  rehabilitation of irrigation canals, drains and roads
serving 17,000 ha;
(b)  on-farm development works involving the construction of
irrigation and drainage ditches, farm roads, land leveling,
and realignment of farm boundaries on 10,000 ha, and the
repair or construction of farm irrigation and drainage
ditches and minor works related thereto on 7,000 ha; and
(c) provision of integrated supporting agricultural services to
farmers, including the necessary buildings, vehicles and
equipment.
A firm of consultants would be engaged to assist project staff with the
preparation of final designs and the implementation of work, and to carry
out a feasibility study for a second stage project in the Northern Chao
Phya Plain. Project works, described in detail in Annex 2, would be
constructed during the dry season only and completed in four years. A
construction schedule is presented in Chart No. 7478.
Project Works
4.02      Rehabilitation Works.  Although only minor works would be required
on the main system, which has been recently overhauled, except for a short
reach of 5 km, extensive desilting and repair works would have to be carried
out on the secondary canals (119 km) and drains (66 km), serving the project
area. About ten additional check structures would be built to improve water
regulation and new secondary drains totaling 21 km would be opened to improve
the drainage of low-lying lands. No lining of canals would be necessary.
Rehabilitation works would also include repairs on 68 km of existing feeder
and service roads. The construction of about 37 km of new feeder roads of
single-lane, earth surface standard would also be included in the project.
4.03      On-farm Development Works.  On-farm development works would be
carried out on 10,000 ha, or about 60% of the project area where double
cropping is proposed (para. 4.09). To permit the design of an efficient
distribution network, the boundaries of farm holdings, which are presently
irregular in shape, would be realigned. This would involve only minor ex-
changes of land between owners (para. 5.09), combined with the leveling and
bordering of fields, and the construction of tertiary irrigation and drainage
canals, structures and farm roads. This integrated procedure, which conforms



-9-
to standards developed in the pilot projects, produces a uniform rectangular
layout of the farms and the irrigation system, gives all farms access to
ditches and roads, and is more efficient for both farming and irrigation
operations. Over the remaining 7,000 ha, which would be limited to the
production of a wet-season rice crop (para. 4.09), existing ditches would be
repaired and water regulating structures installed. Some additional irriga-
tion and drainage ditches would be constructed where required.
4.04      Buildings.  The project would also provide for the construction of
Office buildings for the two sub-project headquarters, two rest houses, meet-
ing halls for the training of farmers, about 10 staff houses and 30 single-
room field offices for extension workers and water management personnel serving
at village level. These buildings would be of additional benefit to the
proposed larger second stage project.
Second Stage Study
4.05      In line with Government plans to rapidly expand double cropping
in the Northern Chao Phya Plain, a feasibility study for a second stage
project would be initiated with the assistance of consultants in the following
manner. The long-term development program for the Northerrn Plain prepared
by NEDECO, would be reviewed by the Government in conjunction with a proposed
Water Master Plan, which would lay the basis for a policy decision on water
allocation between alternative uses and between agricultural users in different
areas and on investment requirements. Concurrently a second stage project
area for irrigation improvement would be selected and a feasibility study,
including aerial mapping and topographical and soil surveys, would be carried
out (para. 5.06). It is not expected that this study would be affected by
the Water Master Plan as the incremental water demand would be only a small
part of the total available water supply. The second stage study would cover
50,000 ha but could be enlarged, if warranted by the progress of work on the
first stage. Details of the study, which would take one and a half years to
complete, are presented in Annex 3.
WatrlSppye      emn~d adqality
4.06      Water Supply.  The Bhumiphol and Sirikit reservoirs provide a
regulated water supply during the wet season to about 700,000 ha in the
Northern Chao Phya Plain. After making allowances for other uses - mainly
power, navigation and salinity control - these reservoirs can provide about
3,700 Mm3 for dry-season irrigation. On the basis of recent reservoir
operation studies, these releases could meet the dry-season requirements of
about 400,000 ha or nearly 60% of the total area, provided that adequate
distribution networks are constructed, to enable the present low irrigation
efficiency to be raised from 25-30% to 50-55%. Thus, even if the present
plans for the development of double cropping can be realized, water avail-
ability would not become a constraint for another fifteen to twenty years.
4.07      Water Demand.  Irrigation requirements for the proposed cropping
pattern were determined from information obtained at the Samchook experiment
station. These results check closely with the theoretical computation of



-10 -
consumptive use, as determined by standard methods. Taking into account an
overall efficiency of 55%, the total diversion requirements at the headworks
of each sub-project would be about 100 Mm3, or on average, 11,800 m3 per ha
per annum of net irrigable land, for a cropping intensity of 160%.
4.08      Water Quality.  The quality of water in the rivers that supply the
project is excellent for sustained irrigation. From extensive sampling it
was found that soluble salts are within safe limits. Details on water
demand, supply and quality are presented in Annex 4.
Engineering Design
4.09      Preliminary designs have been completed by the Royal Irrigation
Department (RID) for the rehabilitation works. Final designs are presently
being prepared with the assistance of consultants and are expected to be
completed by July 1973. RID would be responsible for obtaining rights-of-way
for new construction under existing procedures, which are adequate. Designs
for on-farm works would be prepared by the project staff assisted by con-
sultants. Mapping at 1:4,000 scale with 0.25 m contours is available for
4,000 ha of the project area. The project provides for topographic mapping
of the remaining area. The Government favors limiting the cropping intensity
to about 160% on any given project in the Plain. While the topography of the
project area and the availability of water would have permitted the adoption
of a somewhat higher cropping intensity, the availability of lice drying
areas, the policy of not increasing labor demand in the peak months to the
point where an uneconomic degree of mechanization would be induced, as well
as the desire to focus irrigation investment on the most favorable soils argue
for the selected intensity of 160%. With this approach, only the best soils
would be equipped for double cropping while all low-lying areas, which would
continue to have drainage problems even after project implementation, and
other marginal soils would only produce one crop of rice during the wet season.
Cadastral surveys would be carried out before and after realignment of farm
boundaries. Design criteria and techniques developed from the construction
of on-farm works in the Chanasutr pilot area would be followed.
Cost Estimates
4.10      Taking into account recent currency realignments, the overall
project costs are estimated at US$10.6 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$5.5 million or 52% of total cost. Estimates for the
rehabilitation of the secondary system were derived from recent experience
with similar works and preliminary studies by RID; estimates for on-farm
works are based on construction quantities and unit prices obtained from
RID and private contractors during the last two years under the Chanasutr
pilot project. Project costs also include provision for equipment, admini-
strative costs and management salaries, consulting services and the prepara-
tion of a feasibility study for a second stage project.  Foreign exchange
cost estimates are based on maximum requirements likely to occur under the
project (i.e., that all equipment would be imported).  About 22% for con-
tingencies have been included in the estimates:  they consist of physical
contingencies of 20% on construction items and 5% on all others; and price
contingencies of 6% per annum on foreign costs and 3.5% on local costs.



- 11 -
The physical contingencies reflect the preliminary status of design, while
the price contingencies are based on experience with irrigation projects in
recent years.
4.11      A breakdown of project costs is presented in Annex 5 and summarized
below:
Foreign
Baht Million            US$ Million        Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total        %
Rehabilitation Works      16.8    12.8    29.6    0.8       0.6      1.4      43
On-Farm Works             29.0    23.3    52.3    1.4        1.1     2.5      45
Buildings                  5.4      0.6     6.0    0.3       -       0.3       10
Vehicles and Equipment    5.4    37.1    42.5    0.2        1.8      2.0       87
Management                16.7      1.6    18.3    0.8       0.1     0.9        9
Consultant Services        3.8    16.8    20.6    0.2       0.8      1.0      81
Second Stage Study         9.6      2.5    12.1    0.5      G.1      0.6      21
Sub-Total       86.7    94.7   181.4    4.2       4.5     8.7       52
Contingencies
Physical             11.6    10.8    22.4    0.5       0.6      1.1      48
Price                 7.8      8.9    16.7    0.4      0.4      0.8      53
Sub-Total       19.4    19.7    39.1    0.9       1.0     1.9       50
Total Project cost       106.1   114.4   220.5    5.1       5.5    10.6        52
Financing
4.12      The proposed IDA credit of US$5.5 million (B 114 million) would
cover 52% of the estimated total project costs and would finance the estimated
foreign exchange expenditure. The Government's contribution of US$5.1 million
(B 106 million) would finance the local currency requirements and would be
met by annual budget appropriations to the Office of Irrigated Agriculture
under the Ministry of Agriculture.
Procurement
4.13      The rehabilitation of the irrigation system, involving the repair
of a large number of structures spread throughout the project area and with
a low total value (US$1.4 million), would not be suitable for contract work
and would therefore be carried out by the project organization on force account.
The on-farm works are estimated to cost US$2.5 million, excluding a depreciation
allowance of US$1.0 million for the equipment used by the project organization.
These works would need to be planned and executed at short notice to coincide
with the acceptance of boundary realignment schemes by the landholders, as well
as to avoid the growing season and adverse weather conditions. For these
reasons, the on-farm works cannot be grouped into contracts of sufficient
size to be attractive to international contractors. Due to the need to



- 12 -
begin construction as soon as possible anid the fact that Thei contractors
have not previously had experience with on-farm works on a large scale, it
is proposed that up to 75% of these works would be carried cut by the project
organization on force account. On the other hand, in the implementation of
the second stage project and proposed similar projects elsewhere in Thailand,
the volume of on-fanm works would increase substantially and the Government
has recognized the need to begin developing as quickly as possible the
necessary capacity in the private sector. Therefore, the remainder of the
on-farm works would be tendered after local advertising, using normal Govern-
ment contracting procedures which are satisfactory. A yearly breakdown of
the on-farm works between force ac_ount antd contract is given in Annex 2.
4.14      House and office buildings (US$0.3 million) would be tendered
locally since these structures have to be eompleted prior to the start of
construction and the amount involved would not attract international
competition. Procedures for local bidding are satisfactory and there is
sufficient competition for works of this kind and size. Procurement of
vehicles and equipment (US$2.0 million) would be subject to international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15% preference
margin, or the prevailing custmus duty if lower, would be extended to local
manufactueres of vehicles and equipment in the evaluation of bids. The
equipment to be provided under the project (Annex 6) would be sufficient to
enable construction to proceed by force account even if difficulties are
encountered in attracting suitable contractors. For this reason and also
because the construction period of the project is relativel- short, the heavy
equipment would have a salvage value of about US$480,000 at project completion.
This equipment would then be available for use on the second stage and other
projects. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$5,000 each, which
are not suitable for international- tendering would be purchased through normal
Government procurement procedures. Such purchases would be limited to a
total of US$50,000. There are suffIclent suppliers of such goods so that
adequate competition exists. Thie Froject Director, with the assistance of
consultants, would be responsible for the preparation of all contract
documents, the evaluation of bids and the award of contracts. There are no
preferent-'al import duties in Thailand that may affect international contractors
or suppliers.
Disbursements
4.15      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% agairst the cif cost
of directly imported equipment (listed in Annex 6), or the ex-factory price
net of taxes for equipment manufactured locally, and at the rate of 65% of
total expenditures for imported equipment procured locally. For consultants
services disbursements would cover the actual foreign exchange cost. Civil
works would be carried out by contractors and by force account on a reim-
bursement basis with a percentage to be established. Disbursements for
force account would be made against a certificate of expenditures, the
documentation for which would not b;e submitted for review, but would be
retained by the Borrower, and available for inspection by the Association
during the course of a project supervision mission. Any savings in the
credit account would be cancelled. The estimated schedule of expenditures
on the project and a quarterly disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 7.



- 13 -
It is expected that disbursement will be completed by June 30, 1978, about
one year after the completion of project construction.
Accounts and Audits
4.16      The agencies involved in project implementation are departments of
Government ministries and are subject to separate Government control and
auditing procedures. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a)
all project accounts (including those of project management services and
operation and maintenance costs) would be consolidated under the Project
Director; (b) auditors satisfactory to IDA would be employed to audit these
accounts annually; and (c) the audited project accounts, together with the
auditor's comments, would be sent to IDA within four months of the close of
each financial year.
Project in Relation to Ecological Conditions
4.17      Since all arable land in the project is at present cultivated in
the wet season, the introduction of irrigation during the dry season is not
expected to produce significant changes in ecology. Improved drainage from
the project may slightly aggravate drainage problems in undeveloped areas
downstream, but this would be remedied when the overall drainage system for
the Chao Phya Plain, presently under study by RID, is implemented. It is
expected, however, that the project would have some adverse effects on fish
production in a limited area and provision has been made in the project for
an inland fisheries development scheme which would be a part of the agricul-
tural support program in the project area (Annex 2).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management and Coordination
5.01      Until recently, the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) under the
Ministry of National Development was responsible for the construction as well
as the operation and maintenance of all irrigation works, while the Ministry
of Agriculture provided supporting services to farmers, particularly exten-
sion and research. With strong leadership and large budget allocations, RID
was able to implement an extensive construction program of water regulation
works. Most of the emphasis, however, was placed on the construction of
storage reservoirs and the main irrigation and drainage networks with little
investment being made in the distribution networks to bring the water down
to the farm level, as it was felt that these works would be done by the
farmers themselves. At the same time, the Ministry of Agriculture was un-
able to establish an efficient field organization because of poor funding and
a proliferation of responsibilities between its eight departments, each con-
cerned with a particular aspect of irrigated agriculture. Furthermore, co-
ordination between RID and the Ministry of Agriculture had been almost non-
existent.



- 14 -
5.02      The problems described in para. 2.08, coupled with intadequate
supporting services, have resulted in only small increases in wet-season rice
yields and very little expansion of dry-season cropping. The potential
benefits of past investments are, therefore, far from being fully realized.
The shortcomings of past irrigation development policy have become increas-
ingly apparent in recent years and, in an effort to improve performance,
the Government decided in 1972 to bring RID under the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, in order to make one ministry responsible for both the construction
and development stages of irrigation projects. In line with this approach,
construction and development activities in the area of the proposed project,
including the head gates and main canals, would be brought under a unified
project management, which would also assume responsibility for construction
of the irrigation and drainag e network down to the farm level.
5.03      Overall responsibility for construction, operation and agricultural
development of the project would rest with the recently formed Office of
Irrigated Agriculture, headed by the Deputy Under-Secretary of State for
Agriculture, acting in the capacity of Project Director (Chart 7479). The
Project Director would formulate the annual plan of operations, prepare
project budgets and approve the appointment of key personnel to the project
organization. Under his office tender documents would be prepared and issued
and contracts awarded. The Project Director would report directly to the
Central Policy Committee for Irrigated Agriculture, which has recently been
established under the chairmanship of the Under-Secretary of State for Agri-
culture and comprises the heads of all departments involved (Annex 8). This
Committee would be responsible for the formulation of policies, the establish-
ment of priorities as well as the approval of the annual budget and plan of
operations.
5.04      A project manager, with an office in Chainat and reporting to the
Project Director has already been appointed. He would be responsible for
the planning and implementation of day-to-day activities in the field. A
project supervisor in each sub-project area would be responsible for construc-
tion supervision and the operation and maintenance of the completed works.
The project organization would have four sections: administration;
engineering, including operation and maintenance; extension and training;
and credit and farmers' organizations.
5.05      Full-time professional staff would be seconded to the Office from
the Ministry of Agiculture. These staff would continue to receive technical
support from their respective departments and back-up specialists would visit
the project area as required. During the initial four-year construction
period, about 240 people would be employed in the project's central headquarters
and the three field offices. A detailed staff list by discipline and function
is presented in Annex 8. After construction is completed, a substantial pro-
portion of the professional personnel would be transferred to work on the
second stage project. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit
that the Government has established a project organization acceptable to IDA.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would continue



- 15 -
to employ, during the implementation of the project, a project manager, with
experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA, to be responsible for the
planning and implementation of the project in the field, arLd would ensure that
all staff seconded to the project organization would work exclusively under
the administrative responsibility of the project organization.
Consultants' Services
5.06      Following the appraisal mission's visit, the Goverrment employed the
consultit.g firm NEDECO (Netherlands) to initiate the preparation of final
designs and assist in establishing the Office of Irrigated Agriculture. The
services of these consultants through June 1973 are being financed under Loan
514-TH. To ensure the rapid and sound execution of the project, the services
of a consulting firm would be retained during the four year construction
period to assist project staff in planning, design, and construction as well
as in the provision of supporting agricultural services to the farmers. In
addition, the consultants would help the Ministry of Agriculture's staff to
prepare a feasibility study for a second stage project, and would also assist
project specialists in providing intensive in-service training of staff, in
order to prepare a competent nucleus of personnel for implementation of the
second stage project. It is tentatively estimated that about 200 man-months
of consultant effort would be required over the four-year project period. A
draft of the proposed consultants' terms of reference is presented in Annex
9. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a consulting firm,
acceptable to and under terms of reference to be approved by IDA, would be
employed within three months of the date of the Credit Agreement.
Implementation of Project Works
5.07      The rehabilitation of the irrigation and drainage system and
feeder roads, would be carried out by staff seconded from RID's Operation
and Maintenance Regional Offices in each sub-project area. These offices
have a competent engineering staff and sufficient equipment, supplied under
previous Bank Loans, to carry out such works.
5.08      On-farm development works on a small scale were planned and carried
out satisfactorily on the two pilot projects (para. 3.11) by a special unit
of RID under the supervision of consultants. Personnel from this unit would
be incorporated in the engineering sections of the Office and, with the
assistance of the extension and farmers' organizations sections, would be
responsible for the planning, design and construction supervision of such
works.
5.09      On-farm development works, together with the realignment of farm
boundaries, were carried out in the pilot projects under an integrated pro-
cedure known in Thailand as "land consolidation". While this program was
successful, its voluntary nature meant that implementation was slow. In
order to standardize this procedure for application on a much wider scale,
a draft land consolidation law is being considered by Government. Under the
proposed law, a local coimittee would prepare and finalize plans for a layout



- 16 -
of farm boundaries, including irrigation and drainage structures and roads,
after consultation with the farmers concerned. If more than half of the
farmers accept the proposals the plan would be implemented. There would also
be provisions for arbitration of disputes. After completing the realignment
of farm boundaries, title deeds would be issued by the Land Department. The
promise of title deeds is expected to be an important factor in securing
farmers' consent to boundary realignment. In order to ensure that project
implementation is not delayed, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that all necessary legal measures would be taken within one year after signing
of the Credit to facilitate the procedures for boundary realignment and the
issuance of land titles in the project area.
Supporting A ricultural Services
5.10      Extension.  Responsibility for extension services to project
farmers would be with the extension section under the project manager. Field
extension workers would be employed in a ratio of one to 200 farmers, as com-
pared with a country-wide average of one to 4,000 farmers. They would be
recruited from among the more progressive farmers in the area and would
receive special training for this purpose (Annex 10). Experience in other
countries suggests that such men are held in high regard by their fellow
villagers and are more effective in improving agricultural practices than
outsiders. The extension workers would be backed up by project specialists
on improvement of cultivation techniques for rice and upland crops, irriga-
tion practices, the use of farm machinery, seed growing, plant protection
and fish and animal husbandry. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained
that the Project Director would submit a detailed plan for the extension aspects
of the project, including training, within six months of credit signing and
review the plan with IDA.
5.11      Research.  Comprehensive research programs on crops grown in the
Northern Chao Phya Plain are presently conducted in three research stations
located in the vicinity of the project area. The stations are well equipped
and staffed with competent personnel. They have obtained satisfactory results,
few of which, however, have been brought down to farmers' level. In order to
ensure a more rapid dissemination of research information, it was confirmed
during negotiations that a technical advisory committee will be established
for the project at the Regional Research Center at Chainat, consisting of
the directors and senior personnel of the research stations, the project
manager, and the project extension specialists. The technical committee would
be responsible for establishing priorities and programs of research related
to project work; it would also supervise the seed selection and multiplication
program (para. 5.13).
5.12      Fertilizers.  Fertilizers and pesticides are available to farmers
through private dealers who would be able to meet the increase in demand
expected under the project. The price of fertilizers to the farmer is ex-
cessively high (about twice the world market price in the case of nitrogen)
due to protection of domestic manufacturers and an import monopoly on ni-
trogenous fertilizer. It is expected, however, that the Government will



- 17 -
review its fertilizer price policy in the light of the recommendations of
the recently completed fertilizer study, financed by the Bank. The Bank
and the Government would then discuss what action would be appropriate to
eliminate this important impediment to agricultural development.
5.13      Seeds.  High quality seeds are presently in short supply, and
certified seeds non-existent. A rapid increase in demand is, however, expected
with the introduction of new high yielding varieties following completion of
on-farm works (para. 6.01). A National Seeds Project is being prepared for
Bank consideration. However, in order to avoid any possible delays, provi-
sion has been made under this project for seed multiplication in the project
area, if required. It was confirmed during negotiations that, with the
assistance of the Regional Research Center at Chainat, a seed selection and
multiplication program would be initiated through selected farmers, if
required. The technical advisory committee (para. 5.11) would conduct and
supervise its implementation.
5.14      Agricultural Credit.  About 70% of all farmers in the project area
receive credit, mostly from relatives and middlemen at high interest rates.
Only 7% of them obtain loans from institutional suppliers, the most important
of which is the Government-owned Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives (BAAC). All loans extended by BAAC are at 12% interest per
annum, except for loans to credit cooperatives which are at 9% interest per
annum. About 58% of all BAAC loans are short-term (up to one year), and 42%
are medium-term (up to three years); the amount of long-term credit is
insignificant. BAAC's repayment record is good with only 4% of its loan
portfolio in 1971 in unauthorized arrears and, as a result, its financial
position is strong. BAAC would be the main institutional supplier of agri-
cultural credit under the project. It has adequate financial resources and
would be able to expand its lending to project farmers, whose credit require-
ments are expected to increase from about B 6.5 million at Dresent to about
B 18.5 million at full development. It is presently expected that with the
issuance of land titles to farmers, more farmers would be eligible to obtain
credit. In order to serve a wider range of farmers, BAAC would have to adopt
a more vigorous loan expansion policy. To this effect assurances were
obtained during negotiations that BAAC would (a) increase its trained staff
in the branch offices at Sanburi and Bangrachan; (b) cooperate closely with
the credit and farmers' organizations section of the Office, in order to be
better informed about the farmers' credit needs and their future financial
capacity to meet repa-yment terms; and (c) make available such funds, both
short-term and long-term, as shall be needed to adequately meet the credit
requirements of the farmers served by the project. Further details on
agricultural supporting services are presented in Annex 10.
Operation and Maintenance
5.15      Operation and maintenance of the headworks and the main and
secondary canal network serving the project area would continue to be the
responsibility of staff from RID's Regional Offices under the overall
supervision and budgetary control of the Project Director. RID has suffi-
cient equipment and competent personnel to carry out such maintenance works.



- 18 -
However, Government budgetary allocations at present fall short of mainte-
nance needs; a reasonable maintenance program of the main and secondary
system would require an annual expenditure of US$7 per ha at current prices,
while the present budget allocation is about US$4.50 per ha. Responsibility
for the operation and maintenance of the on-farm distribution network would
come under the engineering section of each sub-project. An operation and
maintenance engineer would be assigned to each section along with ditch
riders, each of whom would serve about 300 ha. The engineering section
would formulate and implement the water delivery schedule and supervise
maintenance works, which would be carried out mostly by hand labor. Annual
costs for this operation are presently estimated at US$3 per ha. Assurances
were obtained from the Government that sufficient funds would be made avail-
able at all times to operate and maintain the project facilities, including
on-farm works, at standards acceptable to IDA.
Recovery of Costs
5.16      Although a legal basis exists for levying water charges, such
charges have never been collected by RID. At present, the only tax that the
farmers in the project area are paying is a land tax of B5 per rai (US$1.50
per ha.), which is levied irrespective of soil conditions or crop productivity.
The land tax is collected by district officials under the provincial govern-
ment. Previous to 1970, a heavy tax on exported rice was in effect and
revenues from this tax exceeded the capital and annual expenditures of RID.
The export tax has now been abolished on all but the highest grades of rice.
Under present circumstances, the incremental revenue to the Government from
the project would be B140/ton rice or B5.8 million per annum for the project
area.
5.17      The Government has now decided in principle that, for all new
irrigation projects, it will recover all operation and maintenance costs
and as much as possible of the investment cost directly from the benefi-
ciaries. However, no decisions have been made as to the appropriate levels
of such charges, their allocation between single-cropped and double-cropped
farms, and the procedures for collecting them.
5.18      Several factors will be important in determining an equitable set
of water charges. These include:
(a) Variability
The average level of water charge should be considerably
lower than the average incremental value of production, to
take performance variations between individual farmers into
account.
(b) Equity
The per capita income in the project area even after
full development (para. 6.07) would still be considerably
less than the national average. In addition, large farmers



- 19 -
in the area would benefit more than the smaller farmers (para.
6.06). On the other hand, farmers with access to irrigation
are generally better off than upland farmers.
(c) Risk
The adoption of new varieties and farming practices
involves substantial risk, as perceived by the farmer.
Therefore, water charges should not be so high as to
destroy the farmer's incentive to adopt new methods and
varieties.
(d) Labor
Some of the increase in production must be regarded
as a return to family labor (para. 7.04). If water
charges reduce the return to labor to an uneconomic level,
the farmer will have no incentive to begin dry-season
cropping.
5.19      The above factors will need to be evaluated in detail in the
proposed study (para. 5.20). Assuming that water charges do not exceed
one-third of the incremental net value of production (change in value of
production less all cash outlays, except water charges), B16 million per
year at full development would be recovered, or a present worth of B72 million
at 10%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Thailand. As the
present worth of the project cost of B173 million 1/ plus operation and
maintenance costs is B158 million, at the same interest rate, the cost
recovery ratio would be 45%. Full cost recovery with 10% interest would
require an annual revenue of about B39 million which would be 48% of the
total net value of production after full development of the project or 93%
of the increment due to the project. A charge of this magnitude might
leave the farmer little incentive to participate, particularly in view of
the existing taxes on rice production. If taxes on project output (para.
5.16) are regarded as a partial recovery of project costs, water charges
equivalent to one-third of the net incremental value of production would
imply a cost recovery ratio of 66%.
5.20      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would, in accordance with its policy of recovering all operation and mainte-
nance costs and a reasonable proportion of the investment costs from the
project beneficiaries, (a) initiate a cost recovery study which, within two
years of Credit signing, would propose levels of charges and collection
procedures; and (b) review these proposals with IDA and impose and commence
to collect the agreed charges in the project area within two years of project
completion.
1/   Total project cost of B 220 million, less price contingencies, equipment
salvage value and the cost of the feasibility study for the second stage.
In this analysis, both costs and revenues are evaluated at constant
prices.



- 20 -
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARMERS' INCOME
Production
6.01      Implementation of the project would lead to a more intensive crop-
ping pattern and higher yields. At full development in 1980 about 607% (para
4.09) of the project area would be double cropped, mostly under rice, while
during the wet-season a shift from broadcast to transplanted rice and a sub-
stitution from native varieties to the new high yielding varieties (mainly
RD 1) would take place (Annex 12, Table 2), as illustrated below:
Cropped Area
Present      Future
--------ha--------
Wet Season
Native broadcast rice                                6,500         3,000
Native transplanted rice                            10,500         5,500
RD1 transplanted rice                              _               8,500
Sub-total                                17,000        17,000
Dry Season
RD1 transplanted rice                                  -           6,500
Upland crops                                           400         3,500
Total                    17,400        27,000
Although the RD 1 variety has been little used in the project area, due to
the poor regulation of the water supply, its use is expected to grow rapidly
as irrigation facilities are improved, as was shown by the pilot projects.
Unlike previous improved varieties, RD 1 has no significant problem of con-
sumer acceptability.
6.02      The production of upland crops during the dry season, mainly soy-
beans, mungbeans and peanuts, would be limited to the lighter soils, cover-
ing about 20% of the project area. Rice would continue to be the dominant
crop with an estimated annual production of 100,000 tons of paddy at full
development, compared with a present production of 36,000 tons. The introduc-
tion of double cropping on a large scale is expected to bring about an im-
portant change in cultivation techniques, such as the use of short-duration,
non-photosensitive rice varieties; an increased use of pre-emergence herbi-
cides to reduce hand weeding requirements; the expanded use of fertilizer;
and better insect and rodent control. Farm mechanization would also increase
somewhat to meet a more exacting cropping calendar, with more machinery
(tractors, puddling machines, threshers) being used especially for land
preparation and harvesting. Expected yield levels in ton per ha after comple-



- 21 -
tion of the project are as follows 1/: native broadcast rice 2.5 (1.9);
native transplanted rice 3.5 (2.3); RD1 transplanted rice 4.8, soybeans 1.8;
and peanuts 1.9. Details on yields, production, production costs and net
returns are presented in Annex 12.
Market Prospects
6.03      It is presently estimated that total paddy production in the coun-
try would have to increase by about 4 million tons in the 1971-1981 period,
equivalent to a compounded annual growth rate of 2.5%, in order to satisfy
both the export market and projected donestic requirements. These estimates
have been made taking into account a slow growth in exports (27% per annum),
as a result of increasing production in traditionally importing countries,
and the rise in concessional sales from developed nations. They also reflect
an expected slowdown in population growth (from 3% to 2.5% per annum as an
average for the decade) while assuming the same level of per capita consumption
throughout the period. By comparison, incremental paddy production from the
project wotuld reach approximately 60,000 tons, represent-ing only 1.5% of the
incremental demand by 1981. No marketing constraints are anticipated.
Prices
6.04      Rice prices in Thailand are formed in the open market and are gen-
erally equivalent to world market price levels. Current prices range from
US$90 per ton for medium quality (25% brokens), to US$145 per ton f.o.b.
Bangkok, for the highest grade (100% Thai). Corresponding farm-gate prices
used in the farm income analysis average US$43 (B 900) per ton of paddy for
native varieties and US$41 (B 850) for improved varieties. Ai export premium
is levied on the two highest grades of exported rice which cover less than
10% of all rice exported; it presently stands at US$36 (B 750) per ton. The
Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department forecasts a small decline
in export prices to a range of between US$80 and US$130 per ton of rice by
the early 1980's. As a result, farm-gate prices for the economic analysis
have been projected at a slightly lower level, averaging per ton of paddy
from US$41 (B 850), for native varieties, to US$38.5 (B 800) for improved
varieties.
6.05      Current farm-gate prices for soybeans and peanuts in Thailand are
US$120 (B 2,500) and US$144 (B 3,000) per ton respectively. These prices
are in line with current world market prices and have been adopted for the
farm income analysis. With the expected decline in prices for fats and oils,
farm-gate prices of US$105 (B 2,190) per ton for soybeans and US$120 (B 2,500)
per ton for peanuts, have been used for the economic analysls. Details on
the market and price structure are given in Annex 13.
1/   Figures in parenthesis represent current yields.  Rice yields are
expressed in weight of paddy.



- 22 -
Farmers' Income
6.06      The great majority of farms in the project area are in small hold-
ings (para. 3.05). Larger farms grow more broadcast rice and, therefore,
tend to have a smaller return per hectare than the smaller farms with more
transplanted rice; consequently farm incomes show little variation with farm
size ranging from B 6,500 (US$310) to B 8,200 (US$400) per annum under present
conditions. With the project, variations between farm incomes would be larger,
from a weighted average of B 9,500 (US$460) for farms remaining under a single
crop to B 18,000 (US$870) for double-cropped farms. Details of farm incomes
are shown in Annex 14 and summarized below:
Farm Size
2.5 ha               4.0 ha
--------- Baht---------
Without project
Single Crop Rice Farms:                   6,500                    8,200
With project
Single Crop Rice Farms:                   9,100-10,000    10,800-12,200
Double Crop Farms:
a) second crop mainly rice:                14,200            19,300
b) second crop mainly upland
crops:                                 14,700            21,000
6.07      Operation and maintenance charges have been deducted before arriv-
ing at expected net farm incomes indicated above, but no allowance has been
made for recovery of investment costs, the level of which would be investi-
gated and determined by the proposed water charges study (para 5.20). With
a range in farm income from B 9,100 to B 21,000, and an average of six per-
sons per farm family, per capita income at full development would vary from
B 1,510 (US$73) to B 3,500 (US$168) per annum. When compared with the ex-
pected average rural per capita income in 1980 of US$95 per annum, income
levels on the project area indicate that, although it would be possible to
recover part of the project costs on the more intensively cropped farms,
there would be only limited possibilities to recover costs on single-
cropped farms, which account for 40% of the project area (para. 4.09).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      A major conclusion of the Bank's recent Agricultural Sector Report
was that Thailand must increase its rice production if it is to satisfy a
growing domestic demand and maintain its export position. This increase in
production will need to come mainly from increased yields so as to allow
diversification into other crops, for which a strong potential export demand



- 23 -
exists, and to keep production costs at a competitive level in the world
market. The Chao Phya Improvement Project aims to increase yields (mainly
of rice) through better water control, by making dry-season cropping possible,
and by providing the necessary agricultural supporting services.
7.02      The main direct effect of the project would be an increased
production of rice and, to a lesser extent, of soybeans, mun eans and pea-
nuts. The net value of incremental production would be B 32.5 million per
year at full development. An additional benefit to the economy would be
in the form of an increase in government revenues: about B 5.8 million per
year at full development (Annex 15). Other important benefits, such as the
effects of training and demonstration on future projects, have not been
accounted for. Assuming a 30-year project life and taking into consideration
expected world market prices for the crops produced, the best estimate of the
economic rate of return on the project would be about 15%. In the economic
analysis it was assumed that the opportunity cost of all farm labor equalled
the wage rate for hired labor during peak periods and one-fifth of that value
at other times. The rate of return estimate is quite sensitive to the assumed
shadow wage rate. A further analysis was carried out to examine the economic
returns trom the project under the following adverse conditions: 10% increase
in investment costs; 10% reduction in paddy prices; or a three-year extension
of the construction period. In each case the rate of return was above 12%.
7.03      Past investments in the Bhumiphiol and Sirikit dams, the Chainat
diversion dam and the irrigation and drainage network, all of which contribute
to the realisation of benefits from the project, have been excluded from the
economic analysis in the preceding paragraph. Even after taking these invest-
ments into account, the economic rate of return on the project still exceeds
11%. Further details of the economic analysis are presented in Annex 15.
7.04      With about 6,600 families in the project area engaged in agricul-
ture, the available labor force is about 15,000 man-years of which, on aver-
age, only some 5,000 man-years are utilized under present cropping conditions.
At full development, however, when cultivation methods for wet season rice
would have improved and 60% of the project area would be cropped in the dry
season, employment opportunities would increase almost threefold, reaching
about 14,000 man-years per annum. This includes an expanded use of hired
labor, estimated at about 15% of total labor requirements (up to 30% during
peak periods). It also takes into account the introduction cf cultivation
methods and the use of farm machinery which would even out the demand for
labor at peak periods. The project would thus utilize more fully the avail-
able labor force, which has few alternative employment opportunities.
7.05      Full agricultural production is projected to be reached over an
eight-year period after commencement of the project. The increased produc-
tion of rice would both help to satisfy future domestic requirements and
create additional export earnings, while the production of soybeans, mung-
beans and groundnuts would substitute for imports. Export earnings and
savings at the end of the construction period would amount to US$1.0 mil-
lion per year and reach US$1.6 million per year at full development, thus
assisting the country's balance of payments position.



- 24 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from thie Government
that:
(a) all project accounts (including those of project management
services, and operation and maintenance costs) would be
consolidated under the Project Director; auditors satisfactory
to IDA would be employed to audit these accounts annually; and
the audited project accounts would be sent to IDA, together
with the auditors' comments, within four months of the close
of each financial year (para 4.16);
(b)  the Government would continue to employ, during the implemen-
tation of the project, a project manager, with experience
and qualifications acceptable to IDA, to be responsible
for the planning and implementation of the project in the
field, and would ensure that all staff seconded to the
project organization would work exclusively under the
administrative responsibility of the project organization
(para 5.05);
(c) a consulting firm, acceptable to and under terms of reference
to be approved by IDA, would be employed within three months
of the date of the Credit Agreement (para. 5.06);
(d) all necessary legal measures would be taken within one year
after signing of the Credit to facilitate the procedures
for boundary realignment and the issuance of land titles
in the project area (para 5.09);
(e) the Project Director would submit a detailed plan for the
extension aspects of the project, including training, within
six months of the signing of the credit, and review the plan
with IDA (para. 5.10);
(f) it would cause BAAC to increase the branch offices' trained
staff in Sanburi and Bangrachan; cooperate closely with the
project's credit and farmers' organization section; and
make available such funds, both short-term and long-term,
as shall be needed to adequately meet the credit require-
ments of the farmers served by the project (para 5.14);
(g) sufficient funds would be made available at all times to op-
erate and maintain the project facilities, including on-farm
works, at standards acceptable to IDA (para 5.15); and
(h) it would initiate a cost recovery study which, within two
years of Credit signing, would propose levels of charges



- 25 -
and collection procedures; and review these proposals with
IDA and impose and commence to collect the agreed water
charges in the project area within two years of credit signing
(para 5.20).
8.02      A condition of credit effectiveness would be the establishment of
a project organization acceptable to IDA (para 5.05).
8.03      The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$5.5
million.  The borrower would be the Kingdom of Thailand.
March 14, 1973






ANNEX I
Page 1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMIPROVEMENT PROJECT
Climatological Data
1.        The Northern Chao Phya Plain is a relatively  homogeneous climato-
logical unit. It is subject to a tropical savannah climate characterized by
a distinct wet season (May - October) and dry season (November - April).
Conditions are favorable for year round production of a wide range of crops;
but irregularities in rainfall reduce wet season rice yields in about five
years out of ten and the production of annual field crops is not possible in
the dry season without irrigation. Climatological data for Chainat over a
thirty year period are presented below:
Rainfall   No. of rainy  Max. Temp.  Min. Temp, Av. Temp.            Av. %
mm.           days           Co           Co          Co       Rel. Humidity
Jan         6.4         0.2          32.4         17.5        25.0           66.8
Feb        19.3        0.9           34.5         20.7        27.7           65.4
Mar        37.2         1.5          36.o.        23.3        30.0           64.6
Apr        95.0         3.5          37.5         24.9        31.2           65.1
May       134.9         5.1          36.3         24.8        30.6           71.1
Jun       133.5         7.2          34.4         24.4        29.4           75.3
Jul       139.4         8.1          33.8         24.0        28.9           77.4
Aug       165.9         9.0          32.9         23.9        28.5           83.3
Sep      297.4         11.4          32.2         24.3       28.1            82.4
Oct       160.0         6.6          31.7         23.6        27.7           79.8
Nov        33.4         2.1          31.6         21.1        26.3           74.6
Dec         3.5        0.1           30.8         17.5       24.0            69.4
Year   1,225.9         55.7          33.7         22.5        28.1           72.9
Source:  Division of Climatology, Meteorological Departmert.  Office of the
Prime Minister, Bangkok.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
2.        The main climatic constraint to wet season rice production is a
two to three week drought which occurs during the June-July period in five
years out of ten. This may kill crops broadcast in April-May, delay the
preparation of seedbeds and cause failures in early transplanted paddy. When
these conditions are followed by heavy rains and rapidly rising flood water
there may be substantial reductions in yield and even total crop loss due
to submergence of late planted seedlings in the lower lying areas.
3.        When dry-season cropping is introduced, following the construction
of irrigation works, climate will play an important role in determining
cropping calendars.  Dry season crops should be planted early to ensure that
flowering does not coincide with high temperatures and thunderstorms in late
March-April and harvest can be completed before the onset of monsoon rains in
early May. In the two-crop rice rotations consideration must be given to
growing the crops in the March-November period to minimize irrigation water
requirements. The only problem that can be foreseen is the difficulty of
threshing and drying late planted dry season crops that mature in the monsoon
season. These points are discussed in Annex 12.



ANNEC 2
Page 1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Works
Rehabilitation Works
1.        Headworks supplying water to both sub-projects, as well as the two
conveyance canals which have been overhauled during the last year except for
one short reach of 5 km, are in good condition and would require only minor
works in order to be able to supply the water requirements of the project
area in both wet and dry seasons in a satisfactory manner. This is not
the case, however, with the secondary irrigation and drainage canals totaling
119 km and 66 km respectively, which are badly silted and whose banks are
in many places severely eroded. The existing structures for water control,
especially tertiary canal turnouts, also need extensive repairs and installa-
tion of gates. Existing wooden bridges suffer from neglected maintenance and
have to be replaced by concrete structures. Maintenance of existing feeder
roads totaling about 68 km is also required.
2.        To ensure effective operation of the system besides rehabilitation
of existing works some new construction is also required, including the re-
shaping of natural waterways used for conveyance of irrigation water over
about 23 km, the construction of 21 km of secondary drains and 37 km of feeder
roads. In order to retain command at 70% of full water supply levels during
the dry-season, about ten new cross-regulators would be constructed and where
necessary, the canal banks would be raised. Tertiary turnouts would be re-
placed by'constant head orifice structures where appropriate. All structures
would be provided with graduated scales and stream gauges would be recali-
brated.
3.        Preliminary studies by RID have been completed for the above works
and were used for cost estimate purposes. During the final design stage,
design criteria would be reviewed with the assistance of consultants, and
available maps at a scale of 1:4,000 with 0.25 m contours used to establish
operating water levels. Additional mapping of 13,000 ha would be required.
On-Farm Works
4.        With the completion of the above works, full water control would
be guaranteed in the main system but additional works would have to be
carried out to ensure proper water control at farm and inter-farm levels.
Since, at full development of the plain, only 60% of the total area would be
irrigated, two types of layout are proposed according to anticipated land
use, (a) for double-cropping and (b) for wet season rice only.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Intensive double-cropping layout.  Over selected areas totaling
about 10,000 ha, where soils and topography are better suited for dry-
season cultivation of rice and upland crops, a dense network of irrigation
and drainage ditches would be constructed with an average spacing of 150-200 m.
Control structures would permit the delivery of water in regulated quantities
to each farm. Farmroads using spoil from land leveling would be constructed
along the irrigation ditches to permit access to farms during the dry-season.
Land clearing and leveling would also be carried out to achieve a high degree
of water control needed for efficient irrigation. Since the minor network
has to be based on surface topography, it will intersect the current parcel-
ling pattern. To ensure that all farms have direct access to the irrigation
and drainage ditches and farm roads, it would be necessary to re-arrange
most holdings in the area. Such re-arrangement would involve minor exchanges
of land with only minimal effects on the actual size of the farm. Following
the cadastral survey for reshaping farm boundaries, land titles legalizing
ownership would be issued to farmers. This would permit them to obtain
institutional long-term credit of which they are presently deprived because
of lack of titles. The Land Department, of the Ministry of Inm-rior, would
have responsibility for cadastral surveys and the issuance of title deeds.
6.        Satisfactory design criteria and construction procedures have been
established for on-farm works on the Sappaya and Chanasutr pilot projects
where 2,500 ha have been developed with considerable success during the past
three years.
7.        Layout for wet season rice.  Extensive remodelling of the existing
irrigation ditches would be carried out on the remaining 7,000 ha. Where
necessary, additional irrigation ditches would also be constructed and water
control structures and farm turnouts provided to secure regulated water
deliveries to all farms. Since the field-to-field irrigation would be
replaced gradually by direct irrigation to farms, a network of drainage
ditches would also be necessary for the rapid evacuation of surplus water
toward the main drains. The distribution system would be completed with
spot leveling over areas of rough topography to permit the degree of water
control required by high yielding rice varieties. Re-parcelling of land
would be carried out on a modest scale only along the ditches to permit an
efficient design, but a cadastral survey would cover the entire area as a
prerequisite for issuing land titles to all farm owners.
Cost Estimate
8.        A detailed cost estimate is presented in Annex 5, Table 1 with an
expenditure schedule in Annex 7, Table 1. The cost of rehabilitation, build-
ings and housing was based on RID estimates. The cost of on-farm work was
based on RID costs and contract prices for the Chanasutr and Sappaya pilot
projects. The following unit costs were used.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Single crop area   Double crop area
- -------------Bahtfha-------------
Surveys and issuance of title deeds              375                   375
Design                                             30                   95
Implementation                                   965                 2,530
Sub-total /1                   1,370                 3,000
Depreciation on Equipment                         780                2,500
Total /2                       2,150                 5,500
/1   These figures were used to estimate the cost of on-farm works to be
carried out by force account.
/2   These figures were used to estimate the cost of on-farm works to be
carried out by contract and for 1,000 ha to be executed by force account
in 1974, using equipment on hand.
Construction Schedule
9.        A bar chart of the expected scheduling of construction is presented
at the end of this report. The detailed breakdown of on-farm works between
contract and force account is shown below.
Construction Season             1974    1975    1976    1977    Total
-ha--------------
Double crop area
Force Account              1,000   1,200   2,400   2,400   7,000
Contract                      -       700     700   1,600   3,000
Total           1,000   1,900   3,100   4,000  10,000
Single crop area
Force Account                -      1,000   1,500   1,500    4,000
Contract                     -        500     500   2,000    3,000
Total             -      1,500   2,000   3,500    7,000
Total Area      1,000   3,400   5,100   7_500   17,000
10.       Fish Production.  One adverse effect of the project would be that
fish production in the Plain, which has already been reduced due to the
construction of the storage and water control works, would decline further
with the reduction of deep water flooding areas, and an increased use of
pesticides. A fresh water fish culture program would be launched under the
project to compensate for the decline in fish population in natural waters.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Sufficient technical data are available and specialists from the Fisheries
Department would be assigned to the extension section of the project (para
5.09) for the construction of farm ponds, the expenditure for which has been
included in the cost estimates. The Fisheries Department would conduct
regular surveys in the project area to record changes in natural fish
population and chemical content of fish.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Second Stage Study
1.        Since the proposed project would be only the first stage of an
extensive program to accelerate the introduction of double cropping in the
Northern Chao Phya Plain, it is necessary to initiate a feasibility study
for the second stage project immediately.
2.        Concurrent with this study will be a review of the master plan
for development of the Northern Chao Phya prepared by NEDECO in 1970. This
review, to be carried out by a task force from the Ministry of Agriculture
with the assistance of consultants and supervised by the Project Director,
would determine priorities for rehabilitation and completion of the main
irrigation and drainage networks and update the cost and benefits involved.
3.        Based on the recommendations of the task force, the Central Policy
Committee for Irrigated Agriculture would have to decide on the following
key issues:
a.   water allocations for dry-season crops in the command areas
of the Bhumiphol and Sirikit Dams;
b.   long-term investment schedule; and
C.   regional priorities for irrigation improvement works within
the framework of Thailand's development plans.
However, it is expected that a Stage II Project of the type
described below could be identified before final decisions on the above
matters are reached. The priority areas for the second stage feasibiity
study will need to be established and detailed terms of reference, including
cost estimates and staffing requirements, would be approved by the Central
Policy Committee in consultation with IDA. All costs for the feasibility
study would be financed under the project.
4.        It is presently anticipated that the studies would involve aerial
mapping; topographic, cadastral and soil surveys; a study of fish farming;
and engineering studies for the rehabilitation of main works over an area
of about 50,000 ha. They would be carried out over a period of about
eighteen months by the Ministry of Agriculture's task force and other
specialized Government personnel, supervised by the Project Director with
assistance by the consultants.






,ANNEX 4
Page 1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEIENT PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply
1.        The water supply for crop production in the Chao Phya Plain is
derived from two main sources: (a) rainfall and (b) the regulated flow of
the Chao Phya River system distributed through a network of canals originating
at Chainat Diversion Dam. Groundwater development for irrigation is not
economically feasible under present conditions. Following the completion in
1964 of the Bhumipol Dam and Power Plant regulating the Ping River, all wet-
season irrigation requirements have been adequately met, and there is enough
water for irrigating about 220,000 ha of dry-season crops provided that
adequate distribution networks are constructed and the present low irrigation
efficiencies are raised from 25-30% to 50-55%. With the commissioning by the
end of 1972 of the Sirikit Dam, which regulates the Nan River, another major
tributary of Chao Phya, additional releases during the dry-season would be
made available to irrigate about 180,000 ha in the Chao Phya Plain. Recent
operation studies for the combined operation of both reservoirs have demons-
trated that enough water would be available to meet the demand for irrigation
as defined above, as well as for salinity control, domestic use, navigation
and industry. Since dry-season cropping has substantially lagged behind
expectations, and the irrigated dry-season area reached only 110,000 ha in
1972, no water shortage is expected for the project in the forseeable future.
2.        If, however, Government plans for accelerating agricultural develop-
ment of the plain are implemented along the lines of the proposed project,
then water shortages may develop in the long run if due consideration is not
given to the proper allocation of available water resources in future
planning of projects. In this respect, the recommendations of the US Bureau
of Reclamation (USBR) team, which undertook in 1970 a basin-wide field review
of water supplies and uses of the Chao Phya River and its tributaries should
be given high priority by Government. This review confirmed that water
resources development and demands in the basin have reached the point where
operation of existing projects and future planning on a separate and isolated
basis are no longer practical. The USBR report called for coordinated
operation of the three major dams to help assure efficient allocation of the
limited supply between the major users, namely: irrigation, power, water
supply, navigation and salinity control. A basin-wide water plan is also
recommended for orderly development of any additional water resources project.
Water Demand
3.        The irrigation water requirements have been calculated for the
proposed cropping patterns on the basis of experimental data from the



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Samchook experiment station located in the vicinity of the project area.
These results check closely with the theoretical computation of consumptive
use as determined by standard methods. Effective rainfall was taken on
average as 72% of average rainfall of the Sanburi station (located in the
project area) with a monthly variation from 60% to 90% to reflect variability
in rainfall intensity and duration and the growing period of crops. Appropriate
allowances were made for water requirements for land preparation and nurseries.
To take into account field and conveyance losses, an overall efficiency of
55% was taken, varying from 43% in April and May to 64% during the wet season.
4.        Detailed calculations of irrigation requirements, which would be
identical in the two sub-project areas since they are of equal size and the
same cropping pattern is proposed, are presented in Table 1. They include
the monthly values assumed for effective rainfall and field and conveyance
efficiencies. Gross annual requirements are estimated at about 100 M m3.
Requirements for the various cropping patterns would be:
m3/ha
Rice RD1 - Rice RD1                             16,100
Upland crop - Rice RD1                          10,400
Upland crop - Native Transplanted Rice          12,100
Single crop - Native Transplanted Rice          7,700
Single crop, Native Broadcast Rice              8,400
5.        The peak gross water requirements occur during March with 5.5 m3/sec.
This corresponds to a continuous discharge of 0.65 1/sec/ha over the whole
area, equivalent to about 6 mm/24 hours. The design capacity of the main
system calculated for 7 mm/24 hours exceeds by a sufficient margin the above
demand. The above values are satisfactory for the preliminary designs of the
secondary irrigation canals. They should be reviewed during the final design
stage of the farm distribution system and proper account taken of actual
water measurements from the on-going pilot projects and the operational
standards to be established for each type of layout.
Water quality
6.        Extensive chemical analyses of the waters of the Chao Phya rivers
system carried out by RID and Kobayashi of Japan show excellent quality
for sustained irrigation. Electrical conductivity is well below the limit
of 250 micromhos per cm for low salinity water; sodium percentage is below
20; and boron was not detected.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
THA11,hND
CFAO PHYA IRRIGATION rMPPOVY "NT PRO.2RCT
Irrigation Water Requirements for each Sob-Projec         c. t    2o  On)
J       F        M        A        M        J        J       A        F        O        N        D          TOTAL
CrouRotanior
M----------------------------------------Monthly Cnotm.ptlve use in nmo-------------------------------------
Rice RD1 - Ric _R.
Land Frepsoati,o                                      200      200                                16o      18O
Nursery                                               360      360                                320    -360
Field Crop                                                     200    184       184    200                 189      180      180     198
UIland Crop - t    Ia1
Land Prepaurt.                               32        32                                         ;6o      180
Nursery                                                                                           320      563
Field Crop                                            120      120    120                                  169      18c      180     198
Jp1and Crop- NLt. Tr, !ie
Land Prerc. ion                             32        32                               t60       160
Nursery                                                                                 320       360
Field Crop                                            120      120    120                         189      189      180      130      198
Net. Transulantel Rice
Lend Preparation                                                                        160       180
Nursery                                                                                 320       360
Field Crop                                                                                        189      189      180     180      198
Native Broadcast Rice
Land Preparation                                                        32        3?
Field Crop                                                                      156    156        156      179      189      198     198
--------------------------------------------Eff3ective Rainfall in m--------------------------------------
Mean Rainfall ant Sankab.ri (19,2-69)              6        18      37      62       118    134       104      1-;      289      175       37      8         1,139
?ffective Rainfall %                             90        90       90      80        75      75        75      75       65       65       9c0   90             72
Effective Rainfall                               -         16       33      50        89    101        78      113      188      114       33      -           815
Dry     Wet
Season Season
-----------------------------------------Monthly Irrigated Lend in ha------             -      -     -     -      -
Rice RD, - Rice 291 (3.290 ha)
Land Preparation                                    1,625   1,625                               1,625   1,625
Nursery L                                             110      110                                110      110
Field Crop                                                  1,625  3,250    3,250  1,625                1,625   3,250   3,250   1,625           3,250   3,250
Upland Crop-Rice RDl (1,000 he.)
Land Preparation                            500       500                                         500      500
Nursery /1                                                                                         35       35
Field Crop                                            500   1,000  1,000                                   500   1,000   1,000       500        1,000   1,000
Upland Crop - Nat. Tr. Rice (750 ha)
Land Preparation                            375       375                               375       375
Nursery L                                                                                25        25
Field Crop                                            375      750    750                         375      750      750     750      375           750     750
Nat. Transplanted Rice (2,000 ha)
Land Preparation                                                                      1,000    1,000
Nursery                                                                                  70        70
Field Crop                                                                                      1,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   1,000              _     2,000
Nat. Broadcast Rice (1,500 ha)
Land Preparation                                                      750       750
Field Crop                                                                      750  1,500    1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500          750           -     1,500
5,000   8,500
-------------------------------Monthly Irrigation Requirements in million a3---------------------------------
Net Requiremnts                                 0.3       4.5      7.4    5.7        3:7    3.5       6.5      6.5      3.9      5.9      7     -    54.9
Field Efficiency {                               67        67       67      62        62     71        71       80       9         0       80
Conveyance Efficiency                            75        75       75      70        70     80        80       SO       Bn       80       80
Project Effienoy  t                              50        50       50      43        43     57        57       64       64       64      64          55
Diversion Regoirements                          0.6       9.0    14.8   L3.3         8.6    6.1      Ii.4    10.2       6.1      9.2    10.9         10,2
---------------------------------------Divernlin  Riequirement  in m3/nec----------------------------------------
0.2       3.6     5.5    5.1        3.2    2.4        4.3      3.8     2.4      3.4      4.2   -
L   Nursery / Field Crop = 1/15
J          F        M      A         M       J         J      A          S       0        N      D






ANNEX 5
Table 1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Foreign
Baht Million              US$ '000         Exchange
Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total           %
1. Rehabilitation
Canals                            8.4     5.9    14.3    404       282     686      41
Drains                            5.4     3.8      9.2    260      183     443      41
Roads                             3.0     3.1      6.1    1"44    151      295      51
Sub-Total:                     16.8    12.8    29.6    808       616   1,424      43
2. On-Farm Works
Surveys and Design                6.1     1.5      7.6    292       73     365      20
Constructiorl/- force account  15.0       9.9    24.9    720       480   1,200      40
- contract         7.9    11.9    19.8    380       570     950      60
Sub-Total:                    29.0    23.3    52.3  1,392   1,123   2,515        45
3. Buildings and Housing               5.4     o.6      6.o    259       30     289      10
4. Equipnment and Vehicles
Heavy equipment                   1.5    30.6    32.1      74   1,470-2/ 1,544      95
Miscellaneous eouipment           o.6     1.5      2.1     30       70     100      70
Vehicles                          3.3     5.0      8.3    154      242     396      61
Sub-Total:                     5.4    37.1    42.5    258   1,782   2,040         87
5. Management
Goverrunent salaries             13.0     -       13.0    625      -       625       -
Other operating costs             3.7     1.6      5.3    178       76     254      30
Sub-Total:                    16.7      1.6    18.3    803       76      879       9
6. Consultant Services                 3.8    16.8    20.6    185       805      990     81
7. Second-Stage Study                  9.6      2.5    12.1    462      121     583      21
Sub-Total:                    86.7    94.7   181.4  4,167   4,553   8,720        52
Contingencies-/
Physical                         11.6    10.8    22.4    556       520   1,076      48
Price                             7.8     8.9    16.7    377       427     8304     53
Sub-Total:                    19.4    19.7    39.1    933       947   1,880      50
TOTAL PRZOJECT COST:         106.1   114.i4   220.5  5o   52500  l         0oJ    ?
1/  See Annex 2 for details.
2/  Includes estimated equipment salvage value of US$480,000.
7/ Physical contingencies approximately 20% for rehabilitation, on-2armn works and buildings
and 5, for all other items.  Price contin,encies are 67; per annum for foreian ^jcsts and
3.5, per annum for local costs.
,ebruary 23, 1;)73



ANNEX 5
Table 2
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION DMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Salaries and Operating Costs
1/    Unit Cost1,        Total
No.        AM            for 4 Years
----- Baht '000-------
Salaries
Professionals                         32           23            2,670
Technicians                           52          13             2,450
Extension workers, ditch riders,
etc.                              156           8             5,000
TOTAL:                            240                        10,120
Labor, unskilled for Operation &
Maintenancel/                     240            3            2,800
TOTAL:                                                       13,000
Operating Costs
Vehicles                              30           14            1,700
Motorcycles                           64            2.5            600
Research and Extension                -             -            1,000
Housing                               -            -             1,200
Office Expenditure                    -            -               800
TOTAL:                                                        5,300
1/   Based on Annex 8, Table 2.  Staff would increase to this level during
the construction period. A somewhat lower average staffing level
has been used to compute the total cost.
2/   Including field allowvances.
3/  For four months, on average.
February 27, 1973.



ANNUEX 6
Tab'!e I
THLUAND
CHAO PIUA IRRIOATDN IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
List of Heavy 1client
Unit Price
item                      Quantlty   cif Bangkok      Total
1. Crawler tractor, 120 hp with bull-
dozer blade and power sbift
transdmssion                            15         33,000       495,o000
2. Crawler tractor, 160 hp with angling
bulldozer blade, power shift trans-
mission and ripper                       2         46,500        93,000
3. Rubber-tired tractor, 170 hp with
bulldozer blade                          4         41,500       166,000
4. Farm tractor, 75 hp with 16 ft
landplane                                2         18,000        36,000
5. Motorgrader, 115 bp                       2         23,000       46,000
6. Notoracraper, 9 yd3                       6         35,000       210,000
7. Backhoo, 1/3-yd3 hydraulic                3         18,000       54,000
8. Front-end loader, 1 yd3 , rubber-
tired, 75 hp power shift transmlssion    1         25,ooo        259000
Sub-total                                         1,125,000
Spare parts 20%                                     225,000
Sub-total                                         1,350,000
Service Equipment
9. Truck, 30,000 lb GVW, with 8,000
litre water tank and putp                2         12,000        24,000
10. Truck, 19,000 lb OVW, with full
serwice equipment                        2         16,000       32,000
11. Truck, 28,660 lb GVW, with platform
body                                     5          6,000        30,000
12. 25-ton low bed seni-trailer,
54,000 lb GVW                            1         23,000        23,000
Sub-total                                           109,000
Spare parta 10%                                      11,000
Sub-total                                           120,000
Grand Total ci Coat                         1L470, 000
/1  lb be reviewed by the consultants.
February 26, 1973



ANNEX 6
Table 2
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IKMPROVNT PROJECT
List of Miscellaneous Euiument and Vehicles
Unit Price                  Grand
Item                 Quantity    cif Bangkok     Total       Total
-----   ------ US$ -------
Miscellaneous Equipment
Research & extension           -            -         16,000
Leveling equipment             -            -         18,000
Office equipment               -            _         36,000       70,000
Vehioles
Dump trucks (5 tons)           4          8,500       34,0ow
Four-wheel-drive cars          8          6,500       52,C00
Pick-up trucks (3/4 ton)      12         4l,000       48,000
Passenger cars                 6          4,000       241,000
Motorcyoles                   14            600        8,400
Motor bicycles                50            300       15,000
Bicycles                      60             60        3,600
Repair shop equipment          -            -         21,000
Spare partas:  20%                          _         36,000      2,42,000
Total cif Cost          312000
/1   To be reviewed by the consultants.



7
Table i
CRAG PIiYA. TRIGATION 2PROV.4NT P,OJE T
Est.L?lated Schedule o2' ExoendiL1tures
(US, '000)
Total                  Calendar Year
Cost       1;?3   1974      1 °7     V? 7(    1977
1. Rehabilitaticn
Can,-l s                               l        Sd5 43         '>85     -        -
'D rains                            443         37    22?      1s4      _        _
k.oad s                             2-95       25    147       13   _-
,3l2b-'%,sta':                11,494      1l0    712        592      _        _
". 0n-iFarm T-b rks
Surveyrs and Design                  365        Ii4
uonst'ruc Lion - force account   1 ,200         -     236    ?214       375      375
- contract            95)        -       -       19)4     194'    562
Cisb...Total:                  2, 51 5       !!,-  ?97      492      653   1,029
'. BDuildings and Houssin                 2809       -      194       95     -        -
*. :r,, uinment nd Vehicles
Ifeavy ecu-Corment                1,544         _   1 ,5i               -
Miscellaneoous ecuipment             10C        50      50     -
";VJehicles                          39TQ       96    3(00     _ 
Sub-Total:                     2,040       I 406 1,4        _        _        _
f?. Iiar*.Lement
Goe-ernment salaries                 62 5       4C0    90      135      170      190
Other cperatt;g costs               254         ?5              45  45            45
Sub-To Lii:                      879        65    1 35      1 80o    215      284
6. Csn3ul Linn  9cices 9- 340                       11C   250  25      u  5u           130
7. Decond Stase Study                     583       160    380        43
Sub-Total..:                   8,720       6 45  3,862   1,652   1,118   1,443
Contingencies
PhySEical                         1,076         56    381      26       1 1      210
PErice                              804               206      1,j      t 36     226
SuhF'-Ti o'.,'l -:             1 ,838C0     5'D   537       45i4     3 17     435
JOT20T, 1rlq(JOCT COST:       1',6030      7(1  4,i)iY    ',1o6   1, 1.65   1  7,
'eL)iit-Ww ^3, 1 '773



TRA:L.AND
CLfHA' PHlYA T iTfTGATPN -PR0VEfi'NT PROJECT
Esf'imated Sch&edile o7 IDV Disbiursements
-Of Fiscal Year                            CimnllatIve Disbur.:-_arit at
and Cuarter       .End of fluarter
1 973/7`4
.eptember 3(), 1 "73
Decembver 31 > 197.3                                  1(\Af00
lhwctqc h 31, 19714                                    300
J  e 30 *, 1974                                        800
1 97 /747
September 30, 1974                                  1,800
Decem'ber 31, 1974                                  2,500
March 31, 19 75                                     2,700
Jime .30, 1975                                      3,000
1 975/76
September 30, 1975                                  3,30!
December 31, 1?75.                                   3, i0o
M.2rc'h 31, 177f6                                    3,900
tJuzle 30, 1976                                     4,1 00
1 _376/77
3e- ernmbei- 3C, 1976                                +,300
December 31, 1976                                   4,500
March 31, 1977                                       4,700'
Jmne 30, 1977                                       Y,> C,
1 977/78
Se)G -mber 30, 1977                                 5,100
aecerfber 31, 197)77                                 5, 300
,arca ;l31, 1978                                   5,I0o
J.une 30, 1'978



ANNEX 8
Table 1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Central Policy Committee for Irrigated Agriculture
Ministry of Agriculture
1.   The Under-Secretary of State                                Chairman
2.   Deputy Under-Secretary of State                             Vice-Chairman
3.   Director General, Department of Rice
4.   Director General, Department of Agricultural
Extension
5.   Director General, Royal Irrigation Department
6.   Director General, Department of Land Cooperatives
7.   Director General, Department of Land Development
8.   Director General, Department of Agriculture
9.   Chief, Agricultural Economics Division,
Office of the Under-Secretary                         Secretary
10. Second Grade Economic Officer,
Agricultural Economic Planning Section,
Office of the Under-Secretary                         Assistant Secretary
Ministry of Interior
11.  Rep,resentative, Department of Local Administration
Ministry of Finance
12. Representative, Economic and Fiscal Management Office
13. Representative, Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives



ANNEX a
Tab].e 2
THAILAND
CHAO PHiYA IRRIATION D1PROVM1ENT PROJECT
Office of Irrigated Agriculture:  Staffing
urnction/Disci,pline                              Construction Period    Development Period
Pro2ect Directorate
Diector47                                         1        -        -        1           - -
Accointant                                        1        -        -        1
.3ng:neers/                                       1       -         -       1                -
Technical As3istant                               -        3        -        - 7
Clerical Ssaff                                    -        -                 -       -
D-ivers                                           -        -                 -       -
74'eld_ 3 .>_ L'
Project lYanarer                                  1        -        -        1
?rooject Sucervisor                               2
Administration and Finanee
llead of Section                               1                 -       1
Technical Assistant                           -        4         -       -        2       -
Clerical Staff                                 -       -        32       -       -       20
Drivers                                        -       -       16        _        _
En7inee. iUI
Ilea    Section                                1       -         -       1
Planning and Construction
ir3.gat ion Engineer                      1
Desig  i Zinser                            2       -         -       1
Surve-a or                                 2
Cadastra. Specialist                       2
Contraot  ngcPneer                         2
Technical Assistants                       -       6         -       -        1
Constriuction SupervisDr                   -       e
Oaeratoin arnd .faintenarce
0 & M    a Dnineer                         2       -         -       2
Technical- Assi-stants                     -       4         -       -        4
Dater '!Lastors                                   1 °/       _
Cormmon Trr-ig2tors                                                           -
Extension and   rainig
Head of §Rion                                 1        -        -        1 
Deputy Lead                                    2       -        -        1H
Head T-aining Center                           1       -        -        1
Farmn  ann,-,ement Spec.al.st                 1        -        -        1
74-ce Soec-a1l;t                              2        -        -        2 t
Upland nrco Special.st                        -        7        -        -       1
Plant Protection 3pecial-st                   1        -        -        1       _        _
Farme Miachinery Specialist                   - ?               -        -       1
irrigaton Specialist                          -        1        -        -       1
Fish and Animal Husbandry                     1        2        -        1       1
Land Use                                      1
Technical Assistants                          -        4        -        -       3        -
Extension Agents                              -        -       312/      -       -       201/
Credit, Marketin;4 xnd  &armers'
Or 7ani *ation
Head o  Section                                1       -        -        1       - -
Deputy Heed                                                                      -        -
7armners' orglnis2tions                       2        2        -        1       2        -
Technical pssfstant                           _        4        -                3        -
Credit Agent                                  _                10        -       -        6
Tozaa  Project ?ersonnel:             34      52       154      19       30     10)2
1/   Professionals, TJniversity Grrduates.
7/   Technicians, Vocational School.
7/   Extensiorn 4-ents, Comrmon Irrigators, Clerical Sta f, Drivers.
1;/   Part-taire.
(Ine  or 1,       ha-.; at Tl,;l develoornert, he  ioul.d ierve aolo,t  I, -h.
One I-or 3(1( ha; ;t  'ull development, he             z;e1 - aocve 4-5%U hi.
O/ ine --or ooo Caners; at Cazll developmont, he .cl1d sC've  31)  'eml.
Note:'rllP .ue  :,'5'f:: .,  Cx'e'f   tentative a oaoasal: th- P,    a ..    mp : . i  e CeccaT- ''1
77 the °roiec! D: rertor, in consultation vi;tf MDA.  *'r thte nurp(ses c. econoroic
an*,ip-sis, it, "-n  asss.ied that the Prc.ect D rect-. tLe Pta   .-t T'ull 2eve-lmesn,  .1i:
oe  ii.   o soie  T.n area ti--ce as large.
?eo rInr, 2r 7, 1 7 .



ANNEX 9
Page 1
TILILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PRO.TECT
Consultants' Services
1.        A consulting firm with broad experience both in engineering and
the provision of supporting services to farmers under irrigated agriculture,
preferably in rice growing areas in South East Asia, would be engaged to
assist project management and staff with project implementation.
2.        The consultants would be required to:
(a) Assist the Office of Irrigated Agriculture within the Ministry
of Agriculture to implement the Chao Phya Irrigation Improve-
ment Project;
(b) Conduct a feasibility study for a second stage irrigation
improvement project in the Notthern Chao Phya Plain; and
(c) Provide technical assistance to the Ministry in finalizing
a feasibility study for irrigation improvement in the Mae
Ilong Stage I area.
3.        In performing parts A and B, the consultant will be required to
give special emphasis to the training of the staff of the Office in all aspects
of irrigated agriculture so that the Office will be capable of undertaking a
greatly expanded program of works in the future.
Scope of Work
A.   Project Implementation
4.        The consultants shall assist the Office in all aspects of the
implementation of the Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project. The work
shall include the preparation and review of final designs and cost estimates
for the civil works under the project, the preparation of tender documents
and the evaluation of bids received for civil works to be carried out by
contract and for the supply of vehicles and equipment, the supervision of
construction, and the preparation of quarterly and annual progress reports.
The consultants shall also assist the Office in establishing and training
Dersonnel for its extension and training, and credit and farmers' organizations
sections. In addition, the consultants shall:
(a)  Recommend proper operation and maintenance procedures and
estimate manpower, budgets, and water delivery schedules;



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(b) Prepare a detailed plan for providing extension services
in the project area and for the training of extension
workers;
(c) Supervise the training of suitable personnel as construction
supervisors for on-farm development work to be performed by
contractors and on force-account;
(d) Assist the Office in preparing a cost recovery study, including
methods and levels of changes and collection arrangements; and
(e) Analyse existing constraints to the adoption of better manage-
ment techniques by the farmers.
B.   Second Stage Study
5.        The consultants shall assist the Office in the preparation of a
feasibility study, to the level required for consideration by the World Bank
Group, for a further project for irrigation improvement on an area of about
50,000 ha in the Northern Chao Phya Plain. It is expected that the proposed
project would be similar in scope and nature to the Chao Phya Irrigation
Improvement Project and that experience gained in implementing that project would
would be taken into account in formulating the proposed project. The feasi-
bility study should be completed by February 1974. It is expected that project
construction would begin in 1975, simultaneously with the first stage, and that
it would be implemented by the same agency. Particular attention would be
needed on the following matters:
(a) Design criteria and the level of investment in on-farm
development which is likely to lead to optimum economic
benefits;
(b) Optimum equipment types, unit costs and the use of con-
tractors for on-farm development, based on experience with
the first stage project;
(c) Manpower, training and budgetary requirements for cadastral
surveys and the issuance of land titles;
(d) Employment conditions in the project area, including: popu-
lation and active labor force; labor needs, the use of hired
labor, and wage rates by month with and without the project;
alternative employment opportunities; and, social aspects of
employment and unemployment;
(e) Sources and terms of credit under present conditions and
recommendations for supplying sufficient short, medium and
long-term credit under projected conditions;
(f) The role of cooperatives and farmers' organizations in
irrigation improvement;



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(g) The environmental effects of the project, including
recommendations and cost estimates for countering any
adverse effects; and
(h) Complementary investments in the agricultural and other
sectors required to realise the full benefits of irriga-
tion improvements.
C.   Mae Klong Irrigation Improvement Stud,
6.        Consultant assistance required under this heading is expected to
be relatively minor and will consist of advice and guidance to the Ministry
staff in carrying out a feasibility study and in preparing a report for sub-
nission to the World Bank Group.
Training
7.        An important function of the consultants would be to provide
in-service training to all professional categories of project personnel,
prepare operation manuals for the main field activities, and supervise the
formal training of field workers in extension, credit and water management.
The number of project personnel to receive in-service training is estimated
as follows:
Professionals:       26
Technicians  :       44
Field workers:      100
General
8.        Despite the broad spectrum of activities and workload for which
the consultants would provide assistance, the availability of qualified
and experienced personnel and the assurances of the Government that such
personnel would be assigned to the project reduces the manpower requirement
of consultants to a total of about 18 man-years of the following expertises:
(a) Irrigation Engineering;
(b) Land and water use planning;
(c) Extension;
(d) Agricultural Economics; and
(e) Marketing, credit and Farmers' Organizations.






ANNEX 10
Page 1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Sup'porting Agricultural Services
Present Status
1.        Several government departments are currently dealing with agricul-
tural development and assistance to farmers. However, because of lack of co-
ordination, limited personnel and insufficient funding, the services provided
to farmers are inadequate to meet the requirements of an intensive agricul-
tural development. The main agencies active in the project area are:
(a) the Ministry of Agriculture, represented by the Departments
of Extension, Rice, Agriculture, Research, Fisheries and
Livestock;
(b) the Royal Irrigation Department and the Departments of Land
Development and Land Cooperatives, formerly operating under
the Ministry of National Development and following the recent
government reorganization under the Ministry of Agriculture;
(c) the Ministry of Interior, operating through the provincial
governors and district officers (Nai Amphurs) who reside in
the area and are nominally responsible for the fieid operations
of the district representatives of all government agencies; and
(d) the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives.
The responsibilities of each of the departments in the above Ministries are
not properly defined and, in many cases overlapping. This has led to frag-
mentation of efforts, poor coordination and duplication of works, resulting
in ineffective performance.
Extension
2.        The Department of Extension within the Ministry of Agriculture
was created in 1968 by consolidating the extension services of the Rice
and Agriculture Departments. It employs presently about 3,000 persons of
which 260 are university graduates and 1,300 are graduates of agricultural
vocational schools. In each province there are about six extension special-
ists and in each district (Amphur) two extension workers, each serving some
4,000 farm families. Since most of extension workers devote half their time
to administrative duties outside of extension, the actual ratio is about one
to 8,000 families. Furthermore, no effective link exists between extension
and research (see para 4). Extension services provided by other departments
are also limited and of poor quality. Another weakness is that most exten-
sion workers come from urban areas and lack the status and practical experience



ANNEX 1 0
Page 2
to gain the confidence of farmers. To improve the effectiveness of the
Extension Department, Government is proposing to assign additional specialists
to this Department and to initiate training courses for extension personnel.
Agricultural Research
3.        Responsibility for agricultural research lies with various Depart-
ments of the Ministries of Agriculture and National Development, the National
Research Council in the Prime Ministers office, the Tobacco Monopoly and the
three National Universities. There are also several research teams from for-
eign countries, international organizations and foundations working with the
ministries and universities. With the Ministry of Agriculture, each Depart-
ment conducts its own research program and runs its own field experiment
stations scattered throughout the country. Liaison between research and
the extension service depends heavily on meetings between senior personnel
in Bangkok.
4.        In the early 1960's the Ministry of Agriculture formulated a pro-
gram to integrate research and extension at the regional level. The concept
included the establishment of one well equipped and well staffed Research
Center in each Region to service all departments. Two such centers are
presently operating, one in the Northeast Region at Tha Prah and another
in the Central Region at Chainat. The basic weakness of the above organ-
ization is the lack of central direction and coordination; the spread of
limited resources among numerous research stations of which few are really
viable research units; and the poor liaison with the field extension service.
5.        Research stations close to the project area include the Suphanburi
and Chainat rice experiment stations, the Central Region Research Center at
Chainat and the Samchook water use experiment station of RID. The rice sta-
tions concentrate mainly on rice research and production of foundation and
stock rice seeds. The well equipped Chainat center where the Agriculture,
Rice, Livestock, Fish and Agricultural Economics Departments of the Ministry
of Agriculture are represented, focusses research on irrigated dry season
cropping in the Plain. The Center is assisted by a team of Australian agri-
culturalists under a Colombo Plan project, which also includes a training
program for Thai agricultural graduates. The Samchook station undertakes
water use experiments, but the soils are not representative of the heavy
soils prevailing in the project area and the usefulness of this program
for the project is limited.
Fertilizers
6.        Fertilizers and pesticides are supplied through local private
dealers operating in the project area. Supply channels are adequate.
Little fertilizer is used, however, mainly because of high prices of lo-
cally produced nitrogenous fertilizer, and the associated import monopoly.
The price of urea, for instance, which is one of the cheapest sources of
nitrogen available, is B3 per kg (US$145 per ton), compared to a world
market price of around US$80 per ton. Other fertilizers, such as NP and
NPK compounds, are reasonably priced but are expensive as a source of nitrogen
alone.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 3
Seeds
7.        Presently there is no large scale seed multiplication and distri-
bution system in operation in the country, and good quality seeds are not
generally available. The research centers provide some seed-stock to the
extension officers who supply it to farmers for multiplication purposes.
Quality control, however, is inadequate, and the growers are unwilling to
pay higher prices for this material. So far, seed production has been a
serious constraint to crop production.
Farmers' Organizations
8.        In order to meet specific programs, such as credit, marketing,
water management, etc. for which a concerted action was required, various
Government agencies have developed a wide range of farmers' organizations.
The following eight organizations are presently operating in the project
area: rice farmers associations; young farmers groups; farmers associa-
tions; irrigation associations; people's irrigation associations; market-
ing cooperatives; service cooperatives and multi-purpose ccoperatives.
These organizations with a membership of about 15% of the farm families
are still at a developing stage and their present capabilities are very
much restricted. Legislation for their consolidation in more efficient
groupings is being considered.
Improvements Needed for Project Implementation
Extension
9.        In order to achieve the proposed development targets, a massive
and integrated extension effort would be made. Since the present organiza-
tion is ill equipped for such a task, it is proposed to bring the extension
responsibilities for the project under an extension section headed by a
section chief responsible to the project manager, which would be manned with
about 21 specialists and technical assistants, and 30 extension workers,
each serving about 200 farms. The specialists would be assigned to the pro-
ject for full time duty from the Departments of Extension, Rice, Agriculture
and other relevant Departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and would
maintain close professional contacts with their respective agencies, receiving
professional support and acting as liaison between Departments. As necessary,
back-up specialists from the Ministry's headquarters in Bangkok would visit
the project area.
10.       The extension workers would be selected from the better farmers in
the project area. They would receive intensive in-service training from the
project specialists and occasionally from instructors from the Ministry of
Agriculture. It is expected that after an initiation course of about four
weeks in the Chainat training facilities, weekly one-day programs would
keep them at good professional standards. The use of selected local farmers
as a link between specialists and farmers, with proven success elsewhere,
would achieve close contact and confidence which is of paramount importance
when introducing rapidly new techniques in a traditional agriculture.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
11.       Extension activities would be focussed on the improvement of cul-
tivation techniques on wet and dry-season rice and upland crops, irrigation
and drainage practices, use of farm machinery, seed growing, plant protec-
tion and fish and animal husbandry. With close liaison with research secured
under the technical advisory committee (para 12) up-dated extension material
would be prepared by project specialists and made available to farmers through
the extension workers. Furthermore, the extension section, conducting its
operations in close coordination with the engineering and credit sections
of the project, would be responsible for making sure that every link in the
chain of modern inputs would be made available to the farmers at the right
moment.
Agricultural Research
12.       While there is presently enough research information available for
initiating the project, there is an urgent need to strengthen the link be-
tween research and extension personnel and to expand research in applied
fields such as:
(a) crop and land management for different varieties of rice and
upland crops, including response to various levels of inputs;
(b) mechanical land preparation techniques and the use of farm
machinery for harvesting, threshing, crop drying, etc,;
(c) seed production;
(d) irrigation water requirements and irrigation practices;
(e) fresh water fish culture; and
(f) agricultural economics and farm budgets.
In order to create adequate communication channels and focus research to
the specific needs of the project, it is proposed that a technical advisory
committee be established at the Chainat Research Center, consisting of the
directors and senior personnel of the research stations, the project manager
and extension specialists. The technical committee would convene twice a
year and would be responsible for establishing priorities and formulating
programs of research related to project implementation. Demonstration farms
and test plots would be established in the project area as required and the
operation costs and personnel financed under the project.
Fertilizers
13.       Fertilizer use in the project area would rise from about 300 tons
to 2,800 tons at full development. Existing supply channels are adequate
to meet this increase. The major increase in fertilizer use will occur on
rice and on the basis of current Rice Department recommendations gross fer-
tilizer demand would be made up of about equal amounts of nitrogen and
phosphate. Granular Ammophos (16:20:0) is the basic fertilizer used for rice
in Thailand. However serious doubts exist as to the merits of using Ammophos



ANNEX 10
Page 5
instead of straight Nitrogenous fertilizers like Urea and Ammonium Sulphate
in the project area. Ammophos is an expensive source of nitrogen on soils
showing little response to phosphate. Assuming no value from the phosphate
component, nitrogen supplied as Ammophos costs B 10 per kg compared to B 6-7
for Urea and Ammonium Sulphate. Research programs should be undertaken to
carefully examine the phosphate need in the project area for rice crops. It
is considered unlikely that Ammophos application would be necessary, if at
all, more often than once every third crop. To encourage increased fertilizer
use, consideration should be given towards 'lowerjrig the prices of domestically
produced straight nitrogenous fertilizers to levels comparable with world
market prices.
Seeds
14.       A National Seeds Project is under preparation with the assistance
of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program and is included in the lending program
for FY 74. However, in order to overcome possible delays in the implementa-
tion of the Seeds Project, it is proposed to initiate a seed production and
quality control program under the project. The target would be to replace
rice seed every three years and upland crop seed every year. The latter is
necessary until practical means have been established to provide for satis-
factory on-farm storage of upland crops during the wet season. Projected
seed requirements for full development are shown in the following table:
Seed           Seed Growing    Foundation Seed
Requirement           Area           Requirements
Tons                ha                Tons
Wet Season
Native rice             250                 80                  5
RD1 Rice                180                 40                  3
Dry Season
RD1 Rice                140                 35                  2
Soybean                 120                100                  7
Mungbean                  70                70                  3
Peanut                    60                50                  6
The Suphanburi and Chainat rice experiment stations would provide foundation
seed of rice. The Chainat Research Center in conjunction with the Department
of Agriculture would provide foundation seed of improved varieties of mung-
bean, soybean, and peanut. In view of the farmers resistance to the improved
native rice varieties currently being produced by the Rice Department it may
be necessary as a first step to initiate a program to select, purify and
multiply seed of the best rice presently grown by the farmers.



AINNNEX 10
Page 6
15.       To supervise seed multiplication and quality outside the experi-
ment stations a seed production officer would be assigned to the project.
Farmers' rice seed requirements would be produced within the project area.
Upland crop seeds would be multiplied in the wet season by selected farmers
in upland areas adjacent to the Chao Phya Plain. In both cases, the seed
production would be closely supervised by the seed production officer.
With the support of the Research Center; this officer would also provide
seed testing service to seed growers, farmers, and extension workers to
ensure that all seeds offered for sale meet reasonable germination and purity
standards.
16.       Storage of native rice and upland crop seeds for the following
planting season currently poses problems at the research station and the
farm level. At the farm level it is proposed to initiate an extensive
drive to introduce special seed stores of about 500 kg capacity to allow
farmers and seed growers to carry over seed from one season to the next in
good condition. At the research station level, funds would be provided
under the project to improve seed cleaning, drying, cool storage and seed
testing facilities at the Research Center to meet the need for high quality
foundation seed for the project.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance
1.        Following the recommendation of a study carr.-zd out in 1965 under
Loan 328-Tm- by a consultant, Mr. R. M. Fagerberg, the Ox¢eration and Mainten-
ance Division oL RID was reorganized and expanded and the level of operations
improved.  Ilowever, because budgetary allocations for the main system were
insufficient and due to the fact that maintenance of existing distribution
ditches has been left to the farmers, the present level of maintenance is
still unsatisfactory and calls for substantial improvements both in organ-
izat:ion and funding.
2.        Under the project, the operation and maintenance of storage works,
flood control works and the main and secondary irrigation and drainage sys-
tems would remain the responsibility of staff from RID's Regional Operation
and Maintenance offices under the overall supervision and budgetary control
of the Project Director. Maintenance would be carried out by hand or with
mechanical equipment made available under previous Bank loans, and for which
adequate repair shops exist. There are competent personnel and sufficient
equipment for this purpose. However, the annual budgetary allocation should
be raised from the present level of US$4.5 per ha to about US$7 per ha.
3.        The operation of the on-farm distribution system, however, would
necessitate the implementation of improved delivery methods adapted to the
requirements of an intensive cropping pattern and should be conducted in full
coordination with the extension activities of the project. It is, therefore,
proposed that responsibility for operation and maintenance would come under
the engineering section and operation and maintenance engineers be assigned
especially for this function.
4.        Each sub-project would be divided into six zones of about 1,400 ha,
each under the control of a water master (zone man) who would supervise five
ditch riders. Each ditch rider would thus be responsible for water delivery
to about 300 ha and would supervise the maintenance work carried out annually
during the dry season, mostly by hand labor. At full development of the
project when increased operating efficiency would be achieved, it is expected
that one ditch rider could cover 400 to 500 ha, thus reducing operating costs
per unit area. Operation and maintenance costs for on-farm works, using
hand labor for maintenance, have been estimated at US$3 per ha.
5.        Upon completion of the project, the annual cost of the entire
operation (main system and distribution network) would be in the order of



ANNEX 11
Page 2
US$170,000 or US$10 per ha on average (equivalent to B33 per rai -1/). The
establishment of different charges for single cropped and double-cropped
land would be investigated under the proposed water charges study (para 5.20).
In the farm budget calculations (Annex 14) these charges have been estimated
at US$6 per ha and US$12 per ha respectively.
6.        Responsibility for operation and maintenance of the minor irriga-
tion system might be delegated ultimately to farmers' irrigation associa-
tions. The proposed water charge study would also include recommendations
on the establishment and operation of such associations.
1/   I rai - 0.16 ha.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
THAILAND
CIIAO PHYA IRRIGATION  24PROVEMENT PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
Present Croping, Pattern
1.        At present the project area is under a traditional wet season rice
monoculture. In 1971, it produced about 36,000 tons of wet season native
rice on a net area of 17,000 ha. Only 400 ha or 2% of the available area
under command of the main irrigation system were used for dry season crop-
ping, mostly rainfed sesame and mungbean broadcast in March-April. The
rest of the land is lying under stubble or cultivated fallow in the period
December to May. The present cropping pattern is illustrated in Table 1.
2.        Wet season rice is grown in the period April to January on all
cultivable land since drainage conditions prevent the production of alterna-
tive crops. In 1971, 40% of the crop was broadcast and the remainder trans-
planted to unimproved native varieties. With little effective water control,
planting time is mostly geared to the onset of monsoon rains. In the low-
lying areas where flood waters accumulate up to a depth of one meter or
more, the farmers have the land custom ploughed in the dry season and broad-
cast the rice with the first rains in April-May. The object is to establish
the rice seedlings before flood waters arrive so that the rice can grow with
the rising flood waters. On the higher land which is subject to a shallower
depth of flooding, land is dyked into small fields to trap the early rain-
fall. This facilitates buffalo ploughing and the establishment of seedbeds
for transplanting. However, seeds beds are rarely established until late
June-July whien the risk of drought periods is reduced.
3.        Almost all farmers grow native unimproved rice varieties as these
are long strawed, can survive fairly severe flood conditions, exhibit a
range of growing periods that can be matched to flood duration in any par-
ticular topographical location and produce high quality rice which in some
cases commands a premium. The improved native rice varieties produced by
the Rice Department have not proved popular with the farmers. Although
offering higher disease resistance, yield increases are marginal and qual-
ity is inferior to the unimproved varieties in some cases. The new high
yielding variety RD 1 is not grown on any significant scale In the project
area at present. It has a short straw and is thus more subject to flood
damage, The grain quality is slightly inferior to the native varieties
and good water control is required to obtain reasonable benefits from the
additional cash inputs associated with high yield. However, experience
with the pilot projects has shown that consumer acceptability is not a
serious problem with RD 1.



AiNEX 12
Page 2
4.        The yield and production statistics available for the project areas
vary considerably between sources. Available data supplemented with infor-
mation from research and extension personnel led to estimated average yields
of 1.9 ton/ha for broadcast native rice and 2.3 tons/ha for transplanted
rice. These low levels reflect the lack of good land preparation and quality
seed, inadequate rodent and insect control, and very little supporting ser-
vices. In addition, yields are frequently reduced by a three week drought
period which often occurs in June-July. Heavy floods are not frequent, but
may cause serious damages on the lower lying broadcast areas, especially
when coupled with early drought.
Future cropping pattern
5.        Projected changes in cropping pattern and production are presented
in Tables 2 and 3. Under the project, improved water distribution would
remove the risk of drought for the wet season rice crop. With improved
drainage and land leveling, the area of transplanted rice would be extended
to 80% and the high yielding short duration variety RD 1 would be introduced
to about 50% of the cropped area. By reducing the risk-factor the project
would provide a sound basis for introducing higher input technology and
achieving appreciable yield increases on all rice crops.
6.        The use of short duration high yielding rice varieties in the wet
season would permit about 60% of the available land to be cropped under irri-
gation in the dry season. Cropping intensity would thus increase from 102%
to 160%. Available soils data indicates that only 20% of the total arable
area is suitable for upland crop production. Since only areas with favor-
able soil and topographical characteristics would be selected for dry season
cropping, it is projected that 35% of the double cropped area would be used
for upland crops and 65% for dry season rice. Peanuts would be restricted
to snmall areas of friable well drained levee soils adjacent to the water
supply channels where harvesting presents no problems and good yields can
be achieved. Soybean is better adapted to the heavy soils than mungbean but
the relative areas of the crops would be determined by the demand for fresh
soybean and tile relative price of soybean and mungbean seed. There are
marked annual fluctuations in the price for mungbean which would be a key
factor in determining the area of this crop.
Future crop yields
7.        With improved water control, on-farm works, an improved supply of
credit and inputs and an intensive extension service, projected increases
in crop yields are as follows:



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Present Yields    Future Yields
ton/ha             ton/ha
Wet Season
N1ative broadcast rice/1                      1.9                2.5
N4ative transplanted rice-                    2.3                3.5
RD1 transplanted rice/                        2.8                4.8
Dry Season
RD1 transplanted rice-                        2.8                4.9
Soybean                                       0.6                1.8
Mungbean                                      0.6                1.6
Peanut                                        1.1                1.9
/1   Paddy basis.
These yields would be achieved four years after the introduction of water
control and supporting services.
8.        The increased yields of wet season native rice would be achieved
through the introduction of better land preparation, good quality seed, in-
creased use of herbicides and insecticides, a modest increase in fertilizer
application and effective rodent control. Key factors on the broadcast areas
would be increased crop density, weed control and rodent control. The yields
of the new rice variety RD1 would be increased through the introduction of
improved management techniques with a substantial increase in the use of
nitrogen fertilizer and agrochemicals. Effective control of stemborer would
contribute to higher dry season yields. Projected yields of all types of
rice are presently being achieved by good farmers in areas of the Northern
Chao Phya wiere some degree of water control is achieved. Present yields
of dry season irrigated crops and RD1 wet season rice are based on average
farm yields in adjacent areas where double cropping is being carried out
without intensive extension and other supporting services. Projections of
fertilizer use, and consequently yields, assume that the present high fer-
tilizer prices will continue. The assumed levels of fertilizer use are
consistent with experience on the pilot projects.
9.        Increases in the upland crop yields would be achieved through land
leveling and improved water managements, tlhe introduction of improved culti-
vation and planting techniques, good quality seed of high yielding varieties
and better insect control and weed control.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
Development Constraints
10.       The project would result in a large increase in demand for hired
labour, a need for new types of mechanization, new methods of harvesting and
drying crops maturing after the onset of monsoon rains and more storage fa-
cilities.  The more important issues are examined briefly below.
11.       Labor availability - There are approximately 6,600 farm families
in the project area. On the basis of recent surveys conducted in Chanasutr
and Sappahya, it is assumed that the average farm family comprises six per-
sons with the equivalent of 2.5 active full time workers per household.
Under the present farming system, labor requirements reach a peak in June-
July and December, which correspond to planting and harvesting time. At
these periods, up to 25% of total labor requirements may be hired but for
the rest of the year there is surplus labor. Estimates indicate that on
the average, only about 33% of the available labor is utilized during the
year.
12.       The introduction of improved management techniques for wet season
rice and dry season cropping to 60% of the project area would increase labor
requirements almost threefold and potential labor usage to about 75%. Assum-
ing that all additional work is carried out by hand with the exception of
cultivation, a comparison of monthly labor requirement with monthly labor
availability indicates that sufficient labor is available within the project
area to handle the proposed program except during the peak months. At these
times, some labor would be drawn from the areas adjacent to the projections.
13.       Peak labor requirements would occur in the period April to August
when dry season crops are being harvested and the wet season rice crops are
being planted. However, there are several means available to reduce the
peaks and the need for hired labor at specific times. The introduction of
the new short duration non-photosensitive rice variety RD 1 to 50% of the
wet season rice area and 60% of the dry season area would allow rice planting
and harvesting time to be staggered. The labor intensive chore of handweed-
ing upland crops can be economically replaced by the use of pre-emergence
herbicides now in the final stages of testing at the research station.
14.       Cropping Calendars - To ensure that resources are used efficiently
and technical and institutional bottlenecks are avoided as far as possible,
attention must be given to preparing cropping calendars as a basis for ex-
tension activities. For the project area, research at Chainat and farmers'
experience in areas already attempting dry season cropping provide a sound
basis for constructing such calendars. In the dry season, upland crops would
be planted early so that flowering does not coincide with high temperatures
in late March-April and the produce can be harvested before the onset of
monsoon rains in early May. Research data indicates that mid-January plant-
ing is close to optimum for most upland crops and meets the above criteria.
March-April planting is desirable for optimal growth of dry season RD 1 rice.
However, since the crop takes about 125 days from seeding to harvest, earlier
planting is desirable to avoid harvesting and drying problems during the
monsoon season.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
15.       Cultivation - The project calls for improved land preparation for
the wet season rice crop and would create a need for land smoothing, plough-
ing, and furrowing for dry season upland crops. Due to the heavy nature of
the soil it is expected that these works would be carried out by the 60-70 hp
four-wheel tractors already operating, mostly on a contract basis, in the
project area. The number of tractors would approximately double in the
period 1973-1980 and the range of implements available extended to include
disc ploughs, small land planes, cultivators, furrowers and harrows.
16.       A special problem arises in land preparation for wet season rice
following dry season rice.  In the early wet season,, the rice straw remains
green and cannot be burned. Buffalo equipment cannot handle the crop
residues. Contractors are reluctant to bring four-wheel tractors into wet
fields and wheelslip upsets land levels. The problem has been successfully
handled in areas adjacent to the project withl the introduction of small 8-10
hp puddling machines. With two passes these machines can incorporate residues
into the flooded paddy soils and rice can be transplanted two to three weeks
later. It is envisaged that over a period of years about 100 of these machines,
which cost approximately $800, would be purchased and operated on a contract
basis by the larger farms or by existing contractors.
17.       Harvesting and drying - Rice crops are currently harvested by
sickle, left to dry in the fields for a few days, then carried to the house
on shoulder poles and stacked for threshing. Threshing is carried out on
an earthern floor using buffaloes or occasionally tractors. These methods
are labor intensive and time consuming. Several problems would arise as
dry season cropping is progressively introduced. Competition for labor
would become acute in the December-January and April-August, periods when
the previous crop must be harvested and the next crop planted. Further,
harvesting of dry season rice would run into the monsoon season and with
increased humidity, it would be difficult, if not inpossible, to thresh and
dry the crop on an earthen floor.
18.       The high demands for labor and the wet season threshing problem
can be largely overcome by introducing small mobile threshing machiines cap-
able of threslhing rice in the field. Original research and development is
not required. A comparison of the better threslhing machines currently in
use in Japan, Taiwan, Philippines and India with a view to selecting a suit-
able machine that can be manufactured locally would yield quick results.
19.       Crop drying is a more difficult problem.  It is hard to justify
the installation of large artifical driers at the mills or other rice re-
ceiving points. They involve relatively high capital cost and require
skilled labor for efficient operation. Their use would be restricted to a
few weeks per year and with the present price structure the millers would
find it hard to dry profitably withiout reducing the farm-gate price of rice.
If Government intervened into the field, it is likely that it would receive
the inferior high moisture grain and find it even more difficult to run an
economic operation. The problem of synchronizing the rate of harvesting
with the capacity of driers poses a major organizational problem with cen-
tralized facilities. Until co-operative drying by farrmer groups becomes
a possibility, the solution to the problem lies at the farm level.



AIN EX 12
Page 6
20.       In the first instance the problem can be lessened by encouraging
farmers to stagger transplanting and harvest and plant dry season rice
early. lowever, it is inevitable that rice would be harvested in the period
May to late July. Long-term weather data shows that maximum temperatures
are high, average relative humidity does not exceed 77% and the number of
rainy days rarely exceeds 7 days per month.  Under much less favorable con-
ditions in Malaysia drying rates of 2.4% moisture per hour have been achieved
by placing shallow layers of rice on a concrete slab with regular turning.
Taking conservative drying rates, a mean depth of 5 cm of paddy and assuming
phased planting and harvesting, a 10m x 10m slab of concrete or asphalt
placed adjacent to the farmhouse could meet the threshing and drying needs
of the average farm growing dry season rice, in the project area. Assuming
a capital cost of B6,000 and a life of 20 years, annual costs would amount
to B300 and the cost of drying would be about B20-B30 per ton of paddy.
However, some study by the consultant is recommended to determine the
optimum size of drying floors and to compare the cost and efficiency of
sun drying with small artificial driers suitable for farm use.
21.       Storage - The large increase in wet season rice production will
present a storage problem. To put the farmer in a more competitive position
in the marketing chain, it is proposed that the bulk of increased storage
should be provided at the farm level in the first instance. A program would
be initiated to upgrade existing farm storages and provide for construction
of new storage. A concrete store designed locally and costing about B450 per
ton of paddy stored provides a sound basis for new construction. The Agri-
cultural Credit Bank is already granting credits of up to B240 per ton for
new farm storage and an extension of this program would meet the needs of
the project. Some further study of storage needs by the consultants is
recommended.
November 28, 1972



THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Present Production from the Project Area
Area     Yield   Farm Gate Price   Gross Value of  Production  Net Value of    Net Returnzs
(ha)    Ton/ha       Baht/ton         Production         CostslI    Production  From ProecA; a
Wet Season                             -Paddy-- ---Baht/ha-                                              - -----Baht Million-
Native broadcast rice       6,500    1.9            900               1,710             325          1,385             9.0
Native transplanted rice 10,500    2.3              900               2,070             396          1,674            17.1
Dry Season
Other field crops2/           400      ^             -                   -               -           1,276             0.5
TOTAL                  17,400                                                                                     26.6
Income from livestock                                                                                                     6.3
TOTAL:                                                                                                            32.93/
Cropping Intensity4/           102%
1/ Based on Annex 13, Table 1. The cost of hired labor has not been included as, withou;: the project, no labor is
hired from outside the project area, and the hiring of labor within the project area represents additional
income to the small farmers.
2/ Mainly mungbean and sesame grown under rainfed conditions plus small areas of vegetables and rice.
:/ Under "future without project" conditions, it is assumed that: a) double cropping would increase to about 10% of
the area through the introduction of individual pumps, and b) RD1 transplanted rice would spread to about 15%
of the area presently under transplanted native varieties. The effect of these changes, valued at current
prices would be an increase in net value of production from B32.9 million to B38.5 million.
4/ Based on a net irrigable area of 17,000 ha.
March 5, 1973
(D >



THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEENT PROJECT
Projected Changes in Cropping Pattern to Full Developmnent
Hectares '000
1972     1973     1974     1975     1976     1977      1978     1979     1980
Wet season native
broadcast rice          6.5      6.2      5.6       4.5      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0
Wet season native
transplanted rice      10.5    10.3       9.2      7.4       5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5       5.5
Wet season RD 1
transplanted rice        -       0.5      2.2       5.1      8.5      8.5      8.5       8.5      8.5
Dry season RD I
transplanted rice       0.1      0.2      0.8       2.0      4.0      6.5      6.5      6.5       6.5
Total Rice              17.1     17.2     17.8    19.0       21.0     23.5     23.5     23.5      23.5
Dry Season Upland CropsL .2       0.3      o.6       1.2       2.3      3.5      3.5      3.5       3.5
Total Dry Season Crop d (0.3)    (0.5)    (1 .4)    (3.2)     (6-3)   (10.0)   (10.0)  (10.0)    (10.0)
Total All Crops         17.3     17.5     18.4    20.2        23.3     27.0     27.0    27.0       27.0
% Land Use               102      103      108       119       137      159      159      159      159
a - Mainly soybean and mungbean with a small area of peanut on the best levee soils
2   Includes dry season RD 1, transplanted rice, and dry season upland crops.
H



THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Future Production from the Project Area
1/
Farm Gate     Gross Value                  Net Value    Net Returns
Area     Yield       Price            of         Production       of           from
(ha)     Ton/ha   Baht/ton       Production        CostsY/  Production   Proj_et Area
Wet Season                                      Paddy        ----- Baht/ha-- - Baht Million
Native broadcast rice       3,000      2.5         900            2,250           633        1,617           4.9
Native transplanted rice   5,500       3.5         900            3,150           906        2,244          12.3
RD1 transplanted rice       8,50Q      4.8         850           4,080          1,056        3,024          25.8         43.0
Sub-Total:              17,000
Dry Season
RDI transplanted rice       6,500      4.9         850           4,170          1,194        2,976          19.4
Soybean3/                   1,500      1.8       2,500            4,500         1,170        3,330           5.0
Mungbean                    1,500      1.6       2,500            4,000           775        3,225           4.8
Peanut4/                      500      1.9       3,000            5,700         1,276        4,424           2.2         31.4
Sub-Total:              10,000
TOTAL:                  272000                                                            TOTAL:                      74.42/
Less hired labor            -I.9-
Income from livestock       +7.6
G.RUND TOTAL:               80.1
Cropping Intensity-/         159%                                                            Production increase due
to project = 80.1-38.5    41.6
1/  The new RDI rice variety commands a slightly lower Drice than the native variety due to the rural population's
preference for top quality native rice.  1972 prices are used.
2/  Based on Annex 13, Table 1, only labor hired from outside the project area (labor demands in excess of 4 million
man-hours per month) has been costed as labor hired within the project area represents additional income to the
small farmers.
3/  Based on soybean seed production.  Returns for vegetable soybeans are much higher but the market is limited.
4/ Based on yields and prices of sun dried peanut in shell.
5/ Based on a net irrigable area of 17,000 ha.
March 5, 1973






ANNEX 13
Page 1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION DIPROVEMENT PROJECT
Marketing and Pri^es
Marketing Structure
1.        Wet-season paddy is normally harvested in December-January.  Upon
harvesting, the average farmer sells about half of his crop immediately
after threshing and winnowing is completed; he keeps 25% to 30% of his crop
for family consumption and sells the remainder gradually between E'ebruary
and July/August. With most of the selling concentrated in a short time, the
spread of farm gate prices during the season is considerable: in 1972, farm-
gate prices for paddy in the project area averaged around B 850 (US$40.9)
per ton in February but had risen to B 1,020 (US$49.0) per ton in July, or
a difference of about 20%. Paddy from improved varieties, such as RD, com-
mands a slightly lower price because of consumers preference in the local
market for native rice; difference range from 6% to 10% on average.
2.        Most paddy is milled in rice mills located within the producing
areas. Sufficient milling capacity exists to accomodate the expected in-
crease in production from the project; about 35 mills are located in the
Northern Chao Phya Plain, which only use about half of their milling capa-
city every year. Most mills separate the rice they produce into two grades:
"headrice" and "brokens". Rice not sold directly for local consumption is
shipped to Bangkok, where the wholesaler proceeds further with the grading
(about 35 grades exist in the trade) and sells it either to retailers or on
the export market.
3.        The marketing structure for products other than rice is much less
developed in the project area, as only small amounts of soybeans, mungbeans
and peanuts are produced. Soybeans are locally used as vegetables and com-
mand a high price; as this market is limited, however, it is expected that
any increase in production from the project would have to be sold to the
oil-industry, and prices would be lower.
Price structure
4.        At present, the price of rice on the export market ranges from
B 2,900 (US$140) per ton for the highest qualities (up to 5% brokens) to
B 1,975 (US$95) per ton f.o.b. Bangkok for 20% brokens. The Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projections Department forecasts a slight decline in these prices
for the early 1980's, with prices ranging fromz US$124 per ton to US$92 per
ton for similar grades as indicated above. As most of the rice exported
would be in the 5% to 20% broken grades, a weighted average price structure
is shown below:



ANNEX 13
Page 2
1980 Price Structure for Rice/1
 ----  Baht/ton rice 
Farm-gate Price equivalent                       1,27GL 
IMilling, transport and handling                   650
Taxes and duties/3                                 140
Export price, f.o.b. Bangkok                     2,060
(US$99)/4
/1   Weighted average price, assuming 20% of milled rice to be
higher grade (5% broken) and 80% to be lower grade (20% broken).
/2   Weiglted average for local varieties (B 850/ton paddy) and RD 1
(B 800/ton paddy) (para 6.04). 1 ton paddy = 0.66 ton rice.
13   Weighted average.  Export premium of B 750/ton on higher grade
and local taxes and duties of B 90/ton on both grades.
/4   Weighted average of US$92/ton for 20% broken and US$124/ton for
5% broken in 1980 from Bank's economic staff.
5.        The farmer thus receives 62% of the export price while the Govern-
ment receives 7% in the form of an export premium and local taxes and
duties.
November 28, 1972



THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CROP PRODUCTION COSTS l/
------------------------WET SEASON-----------------------                              ______-- DRY SEASON---------------------------------
Broadcast          Transplanted         Transplanted           Transplanted
Native Rice Native Rice                      RD1 Rice             RD, Rice             Sy                     ungbean              Peanut
Present   Future    Present    Future    Present   Future    Present   Future    Present   Future    Present   Future    Presert   Future
Cash Inputs (baht per ha)
Land Preparation                                   156       240        220        375       220        375        220       375        219       500        219        500        225        500
Seed                                               125       150         63         75         63        75         63        75        20e       300          °4       150        Soo        50o
Fertilizerl/                                         -        93         19        138         93       288         93       289          -       120           -         -         52        120
Agro Chemicals                                      44       150         Q4        318         94       318         9o       456         6        2_                    125          0        156
TOTAL CASH INPUTS (baht per ha) -                  325       633        326        905        470     1,05S,       470     1,194        482    13177                               827      1.276
Total Labor Requirements
(man-hours cer ha)                              312        4$8       875       1,156       875      1.250       875      1,250        S25    1.631         938      1,531      1,250     2,094
1/ All work is assumed tc be done by hand with the exception of land
preparation where increased use of custom cultivation is envisaged.
2/ RD1 is an improved high-yielding non-photosensitive rice variety.
3/ It is assumed that, on the average, Ammophos would be used for only one-third of the rice crop as per Rice Board recommendations.  The other two-thirds would derive on equivalent
amount of nitrogen from Ammonium Sulphate (see Annex 10, para 13).
4/ Exclusive of hired labor.
February 27, 1973.
I x
a-



THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVXMBFNT PROJTECT
Farm Budgets for Single Crop Rice Farms
----------- 2.50 ha farm -----------          ----------- 4.0 ha farm ------------
Cropping Pattern 1    Cropping-pattern 2    Cropping Pattern 1  Cropping Pattern 2
Wet Season                              Present      Futurel/  Present      Future2/  Present      Futurel Present       Future2/
Broadcast native rice (ha)                  0.8         2.5        o.6         0.5         2.6        1.6       2.0         1.6
Transplanted nativ- rice (ha)               1.7        2.0         1.9         0.7        1.4         2.4       2.0        1.2
Transplanted RD1 rice (ha)                    -           -          -         1.3           -          -         -         1.2
Total rice production (tons)                5.43        8.25       5.51        9.94       8.16       12.40      8.40      13.96
Gross value of production (B)              4,887      7,425       4,959       8,634      7,344      11,160    7,560      12,276
Production costs (B)
(excluding labor)                           933      2,129         947     _2,324       1,400       3,187   1,442       _3,367
Net value of production (B)                3,954       5,296      4,012       6,310       5,944      7,973    6,118        8,909
Water charges (B) 3/                           -         300          -         300           -        480         -         480
Increased fixed costs (B) 4/                   _         143          -         185           -        180         -         215
Hired Labor 5/                                 -           -          -           -        323         670       300         205
Net crop income (B)                        3,954       4,853      3,525       5,825       5,621      6,643    5,818        8,009
Income from livestock (B) 6/               1,000      1,200       1,000       1,200      1,000       1,200    1,000       1,200
Off-farm income (B) 7/                     1,500       3,000      1,500       3,000      1,500       3,000    1,500        3,000
Total farm income (B)                       ,454      953                   10,025  8, 121          10,843 8,318         12,209
1/ Indicates the impact of a higher percentage of transplanted rice.
2/ Indicates the impact of a larger transplanted area and t-e introduction of high-yielding variety RD1.
3/ Based on mission estimates; includes operation and maintenance cost only.
Ji/ Increased annual costs for increased on-farm storage for additional rice production plus annual costs
of additional farm equipment, eg. sprayers.
5/ Based upon 700 man-hours per month of family labor.
Z/ Mainly pig and poultry production.  A slight increase in returns is assumed due to improved extension.
7/ Spare time cottage industr; and wages earned off the farm.  An increase in wage earning will result                        v
from the increased demand for labor in the period January-April on farms growing dry-season crops.
February 7th 1973



THAILAEC
CRAO PFYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Farm 9udgets for Double Crowping Farms
-------------------1.5 ha fars_-----------------           -----------------2.5 ha farm ---------------         -----------------h.0 ha farr__________-------
Present                ,     Future  2'             3      Present                   Future                     Present                     Future
Rotation   Rotation 2-'  Rotation 3                        Rotation 1  Rotation 2  Rotation 3                   Rotation 1   Rotation 2   Rotatloa 3
WET SEASON
Broadcast native rice (ha) 4/          1.50        D.30               -                           c  v.60                      -            -          2.00         0.70C
Transplanted native rioe (ha)          1 .,"        '.505             -              -            1.$0        0.dO             _            _          2.00         1.30
RD1 transplanted rice (ha) 5/              -       0.70            1.50           1.50          -             1.30          2.50         2.50         -             2.00          1-ro           4.00
Total Rice Production (tons)           3.25        5.86           7.20            7.20            5.39       1n.04        12.131        12.00          8.hO        15.90         19.20          19.20
Gross value of produ-tion B        2,075       5,106          6,120          6,120            4,851       8,724       10,200       10,200          7,560      13,830         16,326        16,329
Production costs B
(Eacluding labor)                  55'       1,382           1,584          1,584             077       2,351         2,600        2,S40          1,442       3,733          4,224         4,224
Net Value of Prod-ction B         2,366       3,726           4,536          4,536            3,026       6,373        7,5$0        7,560          6,118      10,097         12,096        12,0956
DRY SEASON
RD1 transplanted rice (ha)             -           0',0           1.5O               _          _             1.6S          2.50            -         -             2.60           4.oc
Irrigated soybean (ha)                 _           o.20               -           1.50          -             0.30             -         2.50         -             C.60              -          4.oo
Irrigated mungbean (ha)                -           0.30               _              _          -             9.60             -            -        -              C.60              -
Irrigated pea.ut (ha)                  -           0.10               _      -            -                   0.20             -            -        -              0.20              -
Total produce (tons)                   -           5.i4            7.35           2.70                        ' .4c        12.25         4.50         -            1l.96         19.60          .7.20
Gross caue of produ-t-oo  3            -       O4L.           6,246           6,750             -        10,7510      10,412        11,251        17,069                     16,660         18,000
Production costs B
(Eaclud2ng labor)                    -      1,1,7,          1,760          1,755                  _                  2,82 S       2,925            -                        452 S    6,776  4,680
Net Value of Production B                      4 ,766h        4,657          4, 75              _         7,q28        7,427         8,325            -       12,0543        11,884         13,320
Net value of total productoc d .3R,13          8,672          R,103           1,531           3,024      14,301       14,087        15,885         6,118      22,10         23,?80         25,616
Water charges B 6./                    -         36-            360             360             -           6O            SOO          600            -           l60            960           960
Increased fixed  -osts 7/              -         235            338             1?3             -           393          518           242            -           S25           7-2            351
Hired Labor 8/                         -          1'1            12'            1B5             -          I, "5c         879        1,570           300        3.770         4,325          4,325
Annual net crop income             .3SS        7,787          8,166          8,813            3.1'24      12,238      12,9 '        13,464         5,818      17,285         17,903         10,,750
Income from livestock B °/         1,1           20           1,200          1, 1,0           1,00         1,200       1,200         1,2W0         1,eO        1,200          1,200         1,200
Off-farm  -vcome B 10/             1,5&)         _                 -              -           1_50                                                   500         _
TOTAL FARM INCOME                  4,36S       8,087          0,366         10,013            6,624       13.488      14,1Q0        14,664         8,313       1,285        18,485         20,980
I/  Rotation 1 reflects the cropping pattern of the project area at full developnest.
2/  Rotation 2 assumes dry season cropped area suitable for rice only.
3/ Rotatias 3 assumes dry season oropped area all suitable for uplend crops
/  Native rice refers to local unimproved varieties.
7/ RDI is a new high yielding noc-photosensiti-e variety o-pable of producing 7 tons per hectarc under ideal conditioss.
'/ Water charges are based on mission estimates and include operation and vainterance costs only.
/ increased fited costs represert increased annual charges for additiu..l farm e.sipmcnt, c.g. sprayers; additiosal storace to acc--odst.
increased production and crop drying facilities on those farms producing dry season RD, rice.
8/ Based upon 700 man-hours per month of family labor.
2/  Mainly pig and poultry  -roduction.  An snoreaae In returos in  ont-cipated due tc better moacage-ent.
10/ Spare ti-e h-es industry and  ase- caroed off thi  fars.  It is projected that there  1ill bc no return  frmn thsue activitie-
on farms producing double cropping due to full time employment on the fam.
Febrsary 7th, 197d






ANNEX 15
Page 1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEHENT PROJECT
Economic Ana'ss
1.        The following assumptions were made in evaluating the project's
economic rate of return:
(a) Benefits. The benefits of the project are mainly in the form
of increases in agricultural production in the project area.
The expected yields, prices, gross value of production and
production costs are shown in Table 1 to this annex. Future
conditions without the project are those described in Annex 12,
Table 1, footnote 1. Prices used in the economic analysis are
estimated farm-gate prices in the early 1980's, which were
derived from forecasted world prices, as given by the Bank's
Economic Analysis and Projections Department. One effect of
the export premium and other local taxes on rice is to depress
farm-gate prices below their shadow rates. This effect has
been estimated at B 140 per ton of rice (Annex 13, para. 4)
or B 5.8 million per annum for the incremental rice production
due to the project. As these taxes and premia represent the
part of the project benefits which is captured by the Govern-
ment, they have been added to the net value of production at
farm-gate prices (Table 1) in computing total benefits.
(b) Fertilizer Costs: Due to the existing monopolistic conditions for
straight nitrogenous fertilizer tim prevailing market price of
B 1600-1700 per ton for Ammonium Sulphate is estimated to be
about 60% higher than the world market price (c.f. Thailand
Fertilizer Study). Hlence a shadow price of B 1000 per ton
of Ammonium Sulphate was used for economic analysis.  For Ammo-
plios, however, there is essentially no difference between the
domestic price and the world mar'ket price; accordingly a price
of B 1900 per ton has been used for it.
(c) Investment Costs. All investment costs have been included,
except the cost of the second stage study (B 12 million plus
B 4 million for consultants) and price contingencies (B 17
million). An allowance has also been made for the salvage
value of equipment usedi -n the project. The investments made
in the main irrigation system, as well as in the dams which
make dry season cropping possible, have been treated as sunk
costs (para. 7).
(d) Development Period. It has been assumed that, on average, it
would take five years to reach full production once the irri-
gation system has been improved and completed up to field



ANNEX 15
Page 2
level. Taking into account the three year construction period,
full development would be reached by 1981, eight years from
commencement of construction.
2.        A critical assumption is that used to compute the opportunity
cost of farm labor. The bulk of this labor is family labor and thus does
not have a market price. Under normal working conditions, the total
availability of farm labor in the project area is estimated to be about
3 million man-hours per month. At peak periods, however, the farmers tend
to work longer hours and accordingly the labor supply under "tstressed" con-
ditions can be stretched to about 4 million man-hours per month. The esti-
mated montly demand for farm labor in the project area, expressed in million
man-hours, "with" and "without" the project, is as follows:
Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr   a   Jun  July  Aug  Spt  Oct  Nov  Dec  Total
With
Project   0.8  2.5  2.8  4.6  0.7  4.9  4.0   3.0  2.0   2.3  2.8  2.3  32.7
Without
Project    -   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.2  1.9  3.1   0.6  0.6    -   1.0  3.9  11.6
3.        For much of the year under "without" project conditions, only a
small part of the total farm labor would find employment. Conditions approach-
ing full employment would occur only during the months of June, July and
December. Under the "with project" conditions, however, a substantial labor
demand would exist throughout the year. In the absence of any labor mobility
from the surrounding areas, the project area would experience full employment,
if not labor shortage, for a number of months. In fact, however, there is a
fair degree of labor mobility in that part of Northern Chao Phya Plain sur-
rounding the project area. As the project covers only a small part of the
Plain, the employment pattern would be little affected by this project, or
future projects now envisaged: employment would contin to be determined
largely by the needs of wet season rice cultivation, leading to full employ-
ment only in June, July and December. Therefore, for the purpose of economic
analysis, only the months of June, July and December were considered as months
of peak demand for labor, with or without the project. During the other
months, there is severe unemployment.
4.        The labor requirement during the peak periods have been costed at
the actual market rate of B 1.25 per hour. On the other hand, a shadow wage
rate of B 0.25 per hour has been used for the non-peak labor requirements,
to reflect the severe unemployment of farm labor in the non-peak months.
The social cost resulting from any labor mobility under "with project"
conditions would be negligible since most of the mobile labor would be drawn
from surrounding communities on a daily basis. Under these assumptions, the
economic rate of return is estimated at 15.3% (Table 2).
5.        The sensitivity of the economic analysis to alternative assumptions
on the shadow price of labor is shown below:



ANNEX 15
Page 3
Alternative                                                      Rate of Return
(a)  All labor costed at zero,                                     18%
(b)  All labor costed at B 1.25 per hour                            6%
The above alternatives are, in themselves, unrealistic but they do serve to
demonstrate the extreme sensitivity of the estimated rate of return to
this variable.
6.        Other changes in the project's parameters were tested with the
following results:
Rate of Return
(c)  10% overall increase in investment costs.                  14.0%
(d) Three-year extension in the construction period
and a three-year delay in the realization of
benefits,                                                  12.9%
(e) All of the dry season cropped area to be under
rice (no upland crops); and                                13.7%
(f)  10% reduction in farm-gate price of paddy.                 14.3%
It can be seen that the estimated rate of return is relatively insensitive
to the above parameters, even allowing for the small degree of variation
tested.
7.        The size of the proposed project did not warrant a detailed inves-
tigation of sunk costs. However, the second stage project and the proposed
Phitsanulok Project will provide opportunities for more thorough analysis
of past investments. All past investments (construction of two storage dams,
a diversion dam and an extensive canal and drainage system) were treated as
sunk costs in the above analysis. In addition, rates of return have also
been calculated by taking into account first the investments made between
1956 and 1963 (Chainat diversion dam, canals and laterals system, Bhumiphol
Dam), on which benefits have already accrued and second the recently completed
Sirikit Dam.
8.        Investments made between 1956 and 1963 have been discounted to
reflect their value at a common point in time. The year 1961 was chosen
for this, and the values obtained are summarized below:



ANNEX 15
Page 4
Total Cost      Area Served      Cost per ha
(B million)      (1,000 ha)          (Baht)
Chainat Dam                542           1,226              442
Canals and Laterals    1,189               531            2,240
Ditches and Dikes           67             800               84
Drainage Canals             76             400              190
Bhumiphol Dam-             524           1,226              427
2,398                            3,383
/1   Only 25%oX of the total investment cost, which is the propor-
tion allocated to irrigation and flood control.
These investments, when pro-rated to the project area (17,000 ha), amount to
B 57.5 million. Net benefits from these investments accruing to the Northern
Ciaao Phya Plain have been estimated by a recent study 1/ to be on the order
of B 350 per ha per annum, mainly as a result of increased wet season paddy
vields (about 0.5 ton per ha) due to more transplanting and better drainage.
i-f the above investment is assumed to have been made in year 0, the proposed
project investments would fall in years 13 to 16. Small wet season benefits
would accrue from year 1 and the full project benefits would be reached in
year 21. Assuming appropriate operation and maintenance costs and a 43-
year total project life, the rate of return is 11%.
9g        The cost of the Sirikit Dam, according to the latest estimates,
is B 1,622 million (US$78 million) of which 21% (B 340 million) has been
ailocated to irrigation. With the available storage, the dam could provide
dry season water to about 400,000 ha. This would amount to an investment
cost of B 850 per ha cropped during the dry season or, for the Chao Phya
Improvemient Project, to a total investment of B 8.5 million (as 10,000 ha
ftnc be cropped during the dry season in the project area).  If these
iLvestrnents are inLcluded in year 0 of the economic analysis, and all past
im.elul,nents and benefits discussed in para. 8 are disregarded, the rate of
return would be 14%. Alternatively, if all investments made between 1956
And 1972 and the benefi-ts therefrom are included, the economic rate of
rcusirS would be 11.
-I/  LeslIe U-. Small:  "An Economic Evaluation of W4ater Control in the
nlorthern Region of the Greater Chao Phva", '1ay 1972.



THAILAND
Ch'AO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production at Full Development
Broadcast |Tranplanted         RDI Wet        RD1 Dry               a/
Crop                                              Native Rice   Native Rice       Season          Season        Soybean        Mungbean         Peanut
With (W) or Without (W) Project                                   W      W       WI t  W        W       W                      W      W       W       W      W       w
Yield (tons/ha)                                                  1.9    2.5    2.3   3.5       2.8    4.8    2.8    4.9    0.6    1.8    0.6    1,6    1.1    1.9
bf                                                        _
Price (B/ton)                                                    850    850    850   850       800    800    800    800   2200   2200   2200   2200   2700   2700
Gross Return (B/ha)                                             1b15   2125   1955  2975    2240   3840   2240   3920   1320   3960   1320   3520   2970   5130
--cT                                                     -                                          -             -                           --------- -- --  -   ---  _
Costs:   Fertilizer                                               -      72      24   107       72    206      72    206       _     120      _       _             120
Labor                                                   373    543    873  1014       65 7   657    756   _M    R.3         384   3      05     424  RQ';  -
Other Inputs                                           325    680    377   CQ8        377    908    377   1046    482   11c5    369    359    775   1296
Total Costs (B/ha)                                               &98   1295   1264  2029       106   1771   1205   2008    787   1094 :      674   1283   1332   1941
Net Return (B/ha)                                                917    33°    691   946    1134   2069   1035   1912    533   22' i    646   2237   1838   3189
Area ('000 ha)                                                   6.5    3.0    f.9   5.5       1.6    8.5        0    6.5    1.7    1.5        0    1.5        0    0.5
Net Value of Production (B m)                                    6.0    2.?    6.2   5.2       1.8   17.6       0   12.4    0.9    3 .         0    3.4        0    1.6
a/   Dry season crop without project assumed to be soybean.                         Net Value of Production:        With Project - crops             - 46.1
- livesLock       =  7.6
b/   Projected 1980 prices.                                                                                                         Total            = 53.7
Net Value of Production: Without Project  - crops               = 14.9
c/   See Annex 15, para lb.                                                                                                       - livestock        =26.3                                  B
Total           =22
See Annex 15, paras 2 - 4.                                                     Incremental Net Value of Production:                             = 32.5
Incremental Government Revenues:                                =  58 8
Fj Parm equipment and storage,seed and Agro chemicals, etc.
Total Project Benefits (at full development)                   B=38.3 million
February 7th 1973



THAILAND
CRAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Operation and
Rehabilitation  On-Farti  Buiildings, Management,        Maintenance,        Physical      Total   Total    Net Benefit
Year    Main Works      Works    EoupmLn  Consultants   Extension Services               e        Costs  Benefits    Stream
1973        2.5           0.9         3.0       3.0                  -                 1.2        10.6      -          -10.6
1974       14.8           6.2        39.4       6.8                  -                 7.8        75.0      0.7        -74.3
1975       12.3          10.3          -        8.7                  -                 5.4        36.7      5.4        -31.3
1976         -           13.6          -        9.7                  -                 3.2        26.5     11.5        -15.0
1977         -           21.4       (10.0)      8.6                  -                 4.2        24.2     22.4        - 1.8
1978         -             -           -         -                   5.0                -          5.0     25.5         20.5
1979         -             -           -         -                   5.0                -          5.0     31.0         26.0
1980         -             -5.0                                                                    5.0     35.4         30.4
1981         -             -           -         -                   5.0                -          5.0     38.3         33.3
2003         -             -           -         -                   5.0                -          5.0     38.3         33.3
Economic Rate of Return = 15.3%
March 5, 1973
c H
X2n



THAI LAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
WORK ITEM                       1973                             1974                             1975                              1976                              19?7
RA. ..N...A...                        N                             RAIN                             RAIN::::::RAIN:
REHABILITATION WORKS                                                 ...RI!!O:. .......
CANALS
DRAINS.......
ROADS.. ...... ..
SURVEYING                                                                                                                                                                .......
TOPOGRAPHICAL SURVEY
CADASTRAL SURVEY                                                                             E     M
ON FARM WORKS
DOUBLE CROP AREA..........
SINGLE CROP AREA............
8IJILDINGS                                                                I    E
SECOND STAGE STUDIES
World Bank   7478






THAI LAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Project Organization
MINISTRY            MINISTRY            MINISTRY          AGRICULTURA
OF                  OF                  OF
FINANCE           AGRICULTURE           INTERIOR              BANK
Central Pohcy Committee
Chairman: Under Secretary
of State for Agriculture
-
OFFICE OF IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
I
PROJECT
DIRECTOR
ADMINISTRATION  _a
I
I
|ECHNICAL UNI T|
TECHNICAL
-- _ _ _ _ _  _ADVISORY
COMMITTEE
PROJECT               (CHAINAT
CONSULTANTS _ _ 1        MANAGER       m    4  RESEARCH
(CHAINAT)               CENTER)
PROJECT                                       PROJECT
SUPERVISOR                _                   SUPERVISOR
ISANBURI                                      IBANGRACHANI
SUB-PROJECT                                     SUB-PROJECT
ADMINISTRATION       OPINERAION               NSIOXTN          IN,*
FINANCE           OEAIN&TRAINING                             FRE;
MAINTENANCE                             ORGANIZATION
World Bank - 7479






IBRD-10202
00                               101-                          102I X /J   ( I||OCTOBER 197f
:         looo \ 00                         101°                           102'                        103'
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
r\anhee
P>i\Resen'o,r  U/TTAD;    Nv                       DAM             __UTARAD  Northern Chao Phya Area
Southern Choo Phya Area              170
I<  folhl \                 1t /                            [IIlThl Other Project Areas
DAM                                     . /LIZ]|TX                    r  _=       Nan River Project Area (Proposed)
DA M   't;)                    ) )    t0\                                -     Dams
Highways
-4--i-I--   Railways
TA                         0     PH)SANULOK                     =     Rivers
\  °\.S$ f                      -*-      International Boundaries
1NAN  RIVER PROJECT
\    (PROPOSED)
-16°  \ <   9 8:1>    t         _   _    _ O  20  40  60  80  100  160
I I    _I     N
160                 * ) /    /                             Kilometers
\   1g            t                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHAYAPHIJM
NAKORNSAA   B n   Borophet                                                     /
150                     IR  1
LONG PRIEWv PROJECT           7,?
PROJEC        BURMA.- -n    JA 0S\
COVERED
1000  KRACHAN  1010                     1020~~~PR                                  HME
DAM                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~1M   AYS~~~~~~~~EPBIC






I BRD -10203 R
FEBRUARY 1973
,/ 1                                                    100,15'                                             100'30Y
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREAS
\  t/   g   <  \       \                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing Feeder Roads
\ f~~~~1 t\ 4 R E > j \ ~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Feecder Roads
-15°15                    \                           /            \                                              Main Irrigation  Canals                     15 15'
|Secondory Irrigation Canals
&  t\'><  t  v  ~~~~~~~76   \   \       \ ~~~~Main Drainage Canals
\<>  XYA  \\  (   /Y   t  \     \       \        1                 ~~~~~~~~Secondary Canals
_                9          \        \     \        \       -        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Drainag3e Caonals
Pilot Project ARreasVERE
|~~~~~~~~~A                                                X-                                    Rier
ASX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ItrainlBudre



