CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 379 TH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 379 TH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 9, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1973, between KINGDOM OF THAILAND
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Se 'on L.u2. Whenever used in this Agreement, uniess the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in liC General Conditions have their respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Organization" means the centralized project org'nization to
be established pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 3.06 of this Agretment.
(b)   "Project Area" means an area of approximately 17,000 ha located in
the Borrower's districts of Sanburi and Bangrachan in the Boromdhart and
Chanasutr irrigation projects (in the Northern Chao Phya Plain).
(c)   "Guidelines for Procurement" means the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972,
as revised in October 1972.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies eq' -alent to five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under this Agreement; provided, however, that,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member
of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures co,istent with the Guidelines for
Procurenient in accordance with, and subiL- to, the provisions set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Ti-. Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agr xi between the Borrower and the Association.
6ection 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July I commencing
July 1, 1983, and ending January 1, 2023, each instalrnent to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, engineering,


﻿5
economic and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of final
designs and the implementation of the Project works and in the carrying out of
Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall, within three months of the date of
this Agreement (or such other time limit as the Borrower and the Association
shall agree), employ engineering and agricultural consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part B of the Project and for the construction
of buildings under Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ contractors
acceptable to the A .-ciation upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association; provided, however, that the Borrower may, except as the Borrower
and the Association shall otherwise agree, carry out up to three-fourths of the
works under Part B of the Project under force account.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to 'he place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable     the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
finan. d out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrol,. shall fur'ish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
mcdifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
re,,sonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall mairtain iecords adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the coi thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of The Credit, and te disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financ..d out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿6
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)   establish  a  centralized  project  organization   acceptable to   the
Association to be responsible for the execution and operation of the Project;
(b)   continue to employ, during the implementation of the Project, a
project manager, with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association,
to be responsible for the planning and implementation of the Project in the field;
and
(c)   ensure that all such    staff as may be seconded to the Project
Organization shall work exclusively under the administrative responsibility of the
Project Organization.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause its Bank for Agriculture and
Agricultural Cooperatives (i) to increase its trained branch office staff in Sanburi
and Bangrachan, (ii) to ensure that such staff shall cooperate closely with the Project
Organization and (iii) to make available such funds, both short-term and long-term,
as shall be needed to adequately meet the credit requirements of the farmers served
by the Project.
Section 3.08. In accordance with its policy of recovering all operational and
maintenance costs and a reasonable pioportion oF investment costs from         the
beneficiaries of irrigation projects, the Borrower shall:
(a)   promptly carry out a cost recovery study and on the basis of such
study, prepare within two years of the date of this Agreement (or such other
time limit as the Borrower and the Association shall agree), appropriate levels of
charges and collection procedures;
(b)   review  the proposals of such study with the Association; and
(c)   impose and commence to collect such charges, in the Project Area,
within two years after completion of the Project (or such other time hmit as the
Borrower and the Association shall agree).
Section 3.09. Within one year of the date of this Agreement (or such other
time limit as the Borrower and the Association shall agree), the Borrower shall
take all the necessary legal measures to facilitate the procedures for boundary
realignment and issuance of land titles in the Project Area.
Section 3.10. Within six months of the date of this Agreement (or such
other time limit as the Borrower and the Association shall agree), the Borrower


﻿7
shall prepare a detailed plan for providing extension services in the Project Area
and for the training of extension workers, and review such plan with the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures. in respect of the
Project, of the departments or ay -' of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part tc
(b)   The Borrower shall      . ase all Project accounts (including those of
Project management services and operation and maintenance costs) to be
consolidated under the Project Organization; (ii) have such accounts and financial
statements related thereto for each l'iscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (iii) furnish to the Association for its review as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of such financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail, as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish t. the Association such other
information concerning such accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably i'quest.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall operate and maintain the Chao Phya
diversion dam, Boromdhart and Chanasutr headworks and main canals as well as
the irrigation and dainage networks, roads, on-farm works, and all other facilities
constructed under the PAoject in accordance w th standards acceptable to the
Association and shall provide promptly as needed such funds for that purpose.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall f-om time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿8
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the
administration, operations of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for cark,ying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of th., Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform    each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection
with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of


﻿9
any nature imposed inder the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in this Agreement
notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of
the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have taken all appropriate
measures to establish the Project Organization.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project
Organization has been duly and validly established under the laws of the Borrower.
Section 8.03. The date August 9, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower inder Article IV and Sections
3.08, 5.01(a) and 5.02(a) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which this Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿10
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2, Thailand
Cable address:
MINANCE
Bangkok
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through     their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Anand Panyarachun
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.    Civil Works                   1,800,000          35% of total
expenditures
II.   Consulting Services           1,000,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
I.   Vehicles and Equip-           1,800,000
ment
(a)  Directly                                     100% of foreign
Imported                                    expenditures
(b)  Manufactured                                 100% of local
Locally                                     expenditures
ex-factory
(c)  Imported but                                 65% of total
Procured Locally                            expenditures
IV.   Unallocated                    900,000
TOTAL              5,500,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
1 above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amour.c will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borroo;er, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿13
(c)   if the Association shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under this Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for improving irrigation
facilities and supporting services to farmers in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    Rehabilitation of irrigation canals, drains and roads serving the Project Area.
B.    On-farm development works involving the surveying, planning and carrying
out of (i) the construction of irrigation and drainage ditches, farm roads, land
levelling, and realignment of farm boundaries on 10,000 ha; (ii) the repair or
construction of farm irrigation and drainage ditches and minor works related thereto
on 7,000 ha; and (iii) the issuance of land titles.
C.    Provision of necessary supporting agricultural services to farmers, including
extension, research, seed multiplication, credit and a fisheries' development scheme
and the construction of residence and office buildings.
D.    A feasibility study for a second stage project in the Northern Chao Phya
Plain and a study to propose cost recovery levels and collection procedures.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 1977.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts governed by Guidelines for Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for vehicles and equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Soon after the bids have been received, the Borrower shpll inform the
Association of the names of all the bidders and the respective amount of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the. bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for vehicles and equipment, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿16
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contr-ct is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of * is Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for suer. eermination.
3.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter ptovided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (Port of Bangkok) price
for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost
to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
4.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
the Borrower's territories if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Borrower's territories of not less than 20% of the
ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in the Borrower's territories.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
5.    A margin of preference may be granted by the Borrower to Preferred
Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by adding to each Foreign Bid,
for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount
(hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such goods.


﻿17
6.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                      Bids to be Compared                    Preference
I.                All Preferred Domestic Bids and                None
Non-preferred Domestic Bids.
II.         (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I,            Add Domestic
if Preferred Domestic Bid, with                Preference
all Foreign Bids;                              Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1,            None
if Non-preferred Domestic Bid,
with all Foreign Bids.
III.              If lowest evaluated bid under Stage            None
II is not the lowest evaluated bid
under Stage 1, all Foreign Bids
only.
7.    The Bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids and the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
8.    Notwithstanding the provisions referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement
or included in the foregoing sub-paragraphs of this Schedule, the Association may
accept (i) that off-shelf items costing less than $5,000 equivalent each may be
procured in accordance with the Borrower's usual procurement procedures,
provided, however, that the aggregate cost of such items does not exceed $50,000
equivalent; and (ii) that, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1.2 of the
Guidelines for Procurement, the construction works under Parts B and C of the
Project may be subject to contracting procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿18
B.    Works not governed by Guidelines for Procurement
Notwithstanding the provisions referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement
or included in paragraph A of this Schedule, the Association may accept that the
Borrower may carry out the works under Part A of the Project and up to
three-fourths of the works under Part B of the Project under force account, unless
the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree.


