Page  1
CONFORMED  
COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER  3971 GH 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated   August   13 , 2004
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3971 GH 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT,  dated  August  13, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
“Association”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(B) 
the Association has received a letter dated June 4, 2004 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to strengthen 
its water and sanitation sector (the “Program”) and declaring the Borrower's commitment 
to the execution of the Program;  
 
(C) 
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its execution of 
the Program through a series of Credits over a period of nine years, the proceeds of such 
Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Program;  
 
(D) 
the Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by the Community 
Water and Sanitation Agency (CWSA) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to CWSA a portion of the proceeds of 
the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and  
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and CWSA; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modification set forth below) (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a)  
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit Agreement, 
the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
territory of, the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the 
Credit, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of 
such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of requiring economy and 
efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Association 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of 
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in 
the Credit Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Association.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Affected Persons” means a person who on account of the acquisition of 
land, including plantation land, for purposes of establishing relocation sites under the 
Project had or would have his or her:  (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to use any land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or right in annual or perennial crops and trees or 
any other fixed or movable asset, acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or 
(iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently, and “Affected Persons” means, collectively, all persons who 
qualify as an Affected Person;  
(b) 
“AC” means an Area Council, established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Local Government Act, No. 462 of 1993; 
(c) 
 “Beneficiary” means a CBO, Local Government Unit, group of 
individuals, a small town, a district or a community to whom or for whose benefit a Grant 
(as hereinafter defined) is made, or proposed to be made, for a Subproject under the 
Project;  
(d) 
“CBO” means a Community-Based Organization;
 
(e) 
“Cedis” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(f) 
“CWSA” means Community Water and Sanitation Agency, established 
and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Community Water and Sanitation Act 564 of 
1998;  
(g) 
“DA” means a District Assembly established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Local Government Act, No.  462 of 1993;  
Page  4
-
3
-
3
(h) 
“Decentralization Secretariat” means the secretariat under the MLGRD 
(as hereinafter defined) for implementation and coordination of the Decentralization 
Action Plan of the Borrower; 
(i) 
 “DWST” means District Water and Sanitation Teams, appointed by the  
respective DAs;  
(j) 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the set of 
mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during 
design, implementation and operation of a Subproject to eliminate any adverse 
environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or to 
enhance positive impacts; 
(k) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(l) 
"Grant" means an amount, out of the proceeds of the Credit to be made 
available to CBOs, Local Government Units, groups of individuals, small towns, districts 
and communities for the purpose of carrying out Subprojects;  
(m) 
"Grant Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between 
CWSA and a DA or between a DA and a legally constituted local community group for 
the purpose of carrying out a Subproject; and 
(n) 
 “Local Government Service Act” means the Borrower’s Act No. 656 of 
2003; 
(o) 
“MLGRD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government and 
Rural Development;  
(p) 
“MOEYS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, Youth and 
Sports;  
(q) 
“MOFEP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Planning;  
(r) 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; 
(s) 
“National Community Water and Sanitation Program” means the 
Borrower’s program established in 1994 to achieve sustainability in the provision of 
water supply and sanitation facilities and hygiene promotion services through the 
adoption of a community ownership and management strategy; 
(t) 
“MWH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Works and Housing; 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
(u) 
“National Decentralization Action Plan” means the Borrower’s strategy 
for implementation of decentralization programs in the territory of the Borrower; 
(v) 
“NGO” means a nongovernmental organization;  
(w) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
CWSA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;  
(x) 
“POM” means the Project Operational Manual referred to in Section 6.01 
(a) of this Agreement containing, inter alia, work programs, training programs, 
monitoring and performance indicators and procedures to be used for the purposes of 
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, in 
consultation with, and with the approval of, the Association, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Operational Manual; 
(y) 
“Resettlement Policy” means the Policy Framework for Land 
Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Affected Persons, satisfactory to the 
Association, approved by MWH dated  May 2004;  
(z) 
“RCC” means a Regional Coordinating Council, established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Local Government Act, No. 462 of 1993; 
(aa) 
 “RWST” means Regional Water and Sanitation Teams established by, 
and as regional departments of CWSA;   
(bb) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; 
(cc) 
“Subproject” means a specific development project pertaining to the 
construction, repair, or rehabilitation of water and sanitation infrastructure facilities, or 
community training in water and sanitation matters financed, or proposed to be financed, 
through a Grant extended to a DA under  Part A of the Project;  and 
(dd) 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CWSA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,800,000). 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) 
 The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to 
be paid) by CWSA on account of withdrawals made with respect to a Subproject under a 
Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for a Subproject to be 
financed under Part A of the Project and in respect of which the withdrawals from the 
Credit Account are requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 
2.04. 
 
(a) 
 
The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15  in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  
Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and  September 15 commencing on September 15, 2014 and ending March 15, 
2044.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2024 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.  (a) 
 The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in 
conformity with appropriate engineering, environmental and administrative practices, and 
shall cause CWSA to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the CWSA Project 
Agreement, all the obligations of CWSA therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services, and other resources 
necessary or appropriate to enable CWSA to perform such obligations, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit, allocated 
from time to time to the DAs and local communities, under Grant Agreements to be 
entered into between CWSA and each DA, or between a DA and local communities, 
respectively, under conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, which 
shall include those set forth in paragraphs 7 and 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
CWSA, DAs, and legally constituted local community groups shall 
exercise their respective rights under each Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect 
the interests of CWSA, the DAs, legally constituted local community groups and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the CWSA, the DAs, and legally constituted local community 
groups shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Grant Agreements or any provision 
thereof. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall make available a portion of the proceeds of the 
Credit to CWSA as a grant under a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
between the Borrower and CWSA (the Subsidiary Grant Agreement) under such terms 
and conditions as shall have been approved by the Association.  
(e)  
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.  
(f) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works a
nd
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, prior to commencing work on any community 
infrastructure and prior to any displacement of any Affected Persons from such works:  
(a) 
undertake the acquisition of all necessary land and other property, 
compensation therefor and resettlement for such works in accordance with the principles 
and institutional procedures established in the Resettlement Policy;  
(b) 
ensure that Affected Persons from such works shall be compensated, 
resettled and rehabilitated in accordance with the Resettlement Policy;  
(c) 
for provision of water and sanitation infrastructure involving resettlement 
of more than 20 persons, prepare and furnish to the Association, a detailed resettlement 
action plan acceptable to the Association documenting the implementation arrangements 
for resettlement arising from such works, including compensation, relocation and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons;  and 
(d) 
complete the implementation of such resettlement action plan in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
 For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of 
 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Assoc
iation’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
 ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
A situation shall have arisen which will make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
(b) 
The Local Government Act (No. 462) of 1993 shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of DAs to perform any of their respective obligations under their respective Grant 
Agreements. 
(c) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the DAs or for the suspension 
of their respective operations. 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower has adopted a Project Operational Manual, in form and 
substance
 
satisfactory to the Association, specifying, inter alia, performance indicators, 
procedures and other arrangements for the purpose of implementation of the Project; and 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly executed between the 
Borrower and CWSA. 
Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CWSA, and is legally binding upon CWSA in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and CWSA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CWSA in 
accordance with its terms. 
6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister for Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning  
 
P.O. Box M40 
 
Accra, Ghana 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMICON 
2205 MIFAEP GH 
233-21-667069 
Accra  
 
233-21-663854 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Accra, Republic of Ghana as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
By     /s/   Yaw Osafo-Maafo 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By    /s/    Mats Karlsson 
Authorized Representative 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Grants 
for 
13,700,000 
100%  of  amounts 
Subprojects  
disbursed 
 
 
 
(2) 
 Goods 
250,000 
100% of foreign    
 
expenditures and  
 
90%
of local  
 
expenditures 
 
(3) Consultants 
Services 
1,400,000 
90% 
 and 
training 
 
(4)       Management Fee Under 
1,250,000 
100% 
 
Part C of the Project 
 
(5) Unallocated 
1,200,000 
 
___________ 
 TOTAL 
17, 
800,000 
 
=========  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
Page  15
-
14
-
14
(c) 
the term “Management Fee” means  the remuneration provided to CWSA 
on account of its services to be rendered for the Project implementation as provided in the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 1,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after June 3, 2004; and (b) under Category 1 unless the 
Subprojects have been prepared in accordance with the procedures and terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  16
-
15
-
15
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase access to sustainable water supply and 
sanitation services in small towns in six regions of the Borrower. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Community Subprojects
The promotion, appraisal, design, carrying out, supervision, monitoring, 
evaluation and provision of Grants for the financing of Subprojects prepared and 
submitted by Beneficiaries, including, inter alia, communal boreholes equipped with 
hand pumps; mechanized boreholes with overhead tank, limited distribution networks 
and communal stand pipes; surface water supply systems storage and distribution 
network with standpipes; protected spring sources, with or without simple distribution 
networks and storage; household and school latrines; and all other water and sanitation 
technologies which meet all technical, environmental, financial, and sustainability 
requirements as specified in the POM. 
Part B
:
Sector Strengthening
1. 
Providers of Goods and Services: Provision of training and logistical support to 
NGOs and private service providers, to ensure that there is a competitive and efficient 
private sector to provide quality goods, works and services to communities under the 
Project, including simplification of procedures to encourage the participation of the 
small-scale entrepreneur, particularly to drilling contractors, drilling consultants and 
supervisors, spare parts suppliers, sanitation contractors, area mechanics, latrine artisans, 
small town water system operators, and providers of training and community 
development services.  
2. 
Public Sector: Provision of support to MWH, RCCs, DAs, ACs, DWSTs, and 
small towns to: (a) deliver cost-effective water and sanitation systems to small towns; (b) 
manage, monitor, evaluate and maintain water and sanitation systems in a sustainable 
manner through: (i) the provision of technical advisory services, training, logistical 
support; and (ii) the organization of orientation courses for DA personnel and orientation 
sessions to be implemented by the RWSTs for DA staff, education officers, school health 
program coordinators, and other relevant personnel covering information pertaining to 
the Project, the demand-based nature of the Project, contracting arrangements, financial 
management and production and distribution of easy-to-use district-level POMs; and (iii) 
the provision of technical advisory services, equipment and training to support the 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
development of the Borrower’s National Community Water and Sanitation Program, 
including, inter alia, initial equipment and vehicles for RWSTs. 
3. 
Provision of support at the national level, including participatory program reviews 
by stakeholders, topical research, mass media campaigns for disseminating hygiene 
education, external impact assessments, exchanges with other countries, and special 
studies for strategies to reduce the costs of investments and sustainable operation and 
maintenance and spare parts distribution. 
4. 
Strengthening the operational capacities of DWST’s to manage project 
implementation at district levels. 
Part C
:
Program Management 
Strengthening the operational capacity of CWSA to enable it to implement the 
Program, including information and promotion, identification of small towns, assistance 
with proposal formulation, appraisal, and monitoring and evaluation, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and the payment of a Management Fee.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2008. 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I. 
General 
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular procurement 
methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, and works 
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding.  
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract and works 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which the Association agrees meet the requirements for Direct 
Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement 
method. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-and Cost-based Selection.  
For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants 
for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants.  
 B. 
Other 
Procedures
1.           Quality-based Selection
Services for assignments which the Association agrees meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  20
-
19
-
19
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis. 
Section IV
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more; (b) each contract 
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; (c) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; and (d) the first contract for consultants’ services with respect to the Resettlement 
Framework Policy and Environmental Management Plan.  
2. 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, single-source selection, and training, 
the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.  
(a) 
Coordination of all Project implementation activities shall be carried out 
by an interministerial Steering Committee, comprising the Chief Director or Executive of 
MOFEP, MWH, MOEYS, MOH, MLGRD, and Ministries of Environment, Science and 
Technology, and CWSA.  The Steering Committee shall provide overall policy guidance 
and advise the various implementing agencies accordingly.  
 
(b) 
The Steering Committee shall be chaired by the Minister for MWH, or 
his deputy, and shall meet quarterly in the first year of project implementation and 
bi-annually in subsequent years.   
 
(c) 
Not later than November 30 of each year, the Steering Committee shall 
review the progress made in respect of Project implementation, institutional issues, 
procurement, disbursements, the involvement of the private sector, the achievements of 
the DAs according to the performance criteria referred to in the Project Operational 
Manual during the preceding year, and progress towards the objectives for the preceding 
year.   
(d) 
The Borrower shall transmit to the Steering Committee, with a copy to 
the Association, at least 30 days prior to such review, a report, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Steering Committee and to the Association, prepared by CWSA and 
each Assembly, describing the status of progress regarding the items listed in paragraph 
(c) above and of Project implementation generally. 
2. 
(a)  
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
procedures set out in the Project Operational Manual, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision 
thereof so as to materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
(b) 
CWSA shall, not later than August 15 of each year, commencing from 
August 15, 2005, carry out jointly with the Association, and in conjunction with the 
Borrower, a comprehensive annual project implementation review aimed 
at: (i) documenting progress towards realization of the objectives of the Project; 
(ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project implementation; (iii) adjusting targets to 
reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Project in the prior years and 
ensuring responsiveness to changes to effectively achieve the objectives of the Project; 
and (iv) discussing the work program and budget for the forthcoming year. 
 
(c) 
CWSA shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review referred to in 
(b) above, furnish to the Association a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in Project 
implementation. 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
(d) 
Promptly after completing such reviews, CWSA shall carry out 
recommendations arising out of said reviews with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon. 
3. 
(a) 
CWSA shall be responsible for providing overall guidance and for 
promoting, facilitating, supervising, monitoring, evaluating, and reporting on all Project 
activities. CWSA shall carry out Parts B(3) and C(1) of the Project directly through its 
own agents and staff.   
 
(b) 
The District Assemblies or small towns, as the case may be, shall be 
responsible for the execution of Subprojects.   
4. 
Eligibility for Subprojects: 
 
(a) 
All districts and small towns which meet the following criteria shall be 
eligible for Grants under the Project and shall be allocated an investment ceiling each 
year by the regional water and sanitation team (RWST), in consultation with the regional 
authorities:  
 
(i) 
In the case of districts, DAs shall have: (A) contributed 5% of 
the investment cost of the anticipated Subprojects for the district, 
(B) appointed qualified technical staff to manage the 
implementation of Subprojects, (C) prepared a rolling district 
water and sanitation plan (DWSP), and (D) submitted acceptable 
community Subproject proposals and associated procurement 
plans which meet the criteria described in the POM.  
 
(ii) 
In the case of small towns: (A) the small towns shall have been 
selected initially by the DA based on criteria including poverty, 
service coverage, and conformity to the district development 
plans, and (B) the small towns shall have expressed willingness 
to contribute 5% of the cost, and to assume full responsibilities 
for, the operation and maintenance of selected facilities.  Only 
small towns that have submitted an application shall receive 
technical assistance to prepare a funding proposal.  Proposals 
that fully meet the appraisal criteria shall be funded, on a first-
come, first-serve basis. 
 
(b) 
All Subprojects shall include technical assistance and community 
development activities to enable the community to make informed choices, organize and 
ensure Subproject implementation (including contracting and works supervision) in a 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
participatory manner, administer funds, and achieve the effective and sustained use of 
their facilities and to include clearly defined hygiene and sanitation promotion activities.   
 
(c) 
The Subproject shall comply with the environmental requirements 
described in the POM, Environmental and Social Management Framework, and 
Resettlement Policy.  
 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (a) through (c) above, 
the investment cost of water and sanitation Subprojects shall be financed through a 10% 
contribution from the DA and the community (the community paying at least 5%). 
5. 
CWSA shall ensure that Beneficiaries are involved in all stages of the Subproject 
cycle.  To that effect, each time a decision affecting a Subproject is made by the DA, on 
behalf of the Beneficiary, the Beneficiary shall be consulted and involved, through the 
appropriate channels, and in accordance with procedures specified in the POM, in 
approving all official documentation pertaining to Subproject implementation (contract 
award, payment certificates, completion certificates).  In this respect, CWSA shall enter 
into a Grant Agreement with a DA as specified in the POM. 
6. 
The terms and conditions of the Grant Agreements shall include the following 
obligations of the DAs to: 
(a) 
carry out or cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and 
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering 
practices, with due regard to environmental factors, and in accordance with the 
Resettlement Policy, Environmental and Social Management Framework, and Project 
Operational Manual; and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
facilities, services and other resources required for said Parts of the Project, including 
their counterpart contributions at levels satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
comply with the procedures for hiring of consultants and the 
Procurement of goods and works set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
comply with the record keeping, auditing and report requirements set 
forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, including the annual auditing of its accounts and 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) required by the Borrower to meet its obligations under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement; 
(d) 
make provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; 
(e) 
in accordance with Section 3.04 of this Agreement: (i) participate in the 
review of the progress made in carrying out the Project, and (ii) thereafter prepare and 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
implement an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the further implementation 
of the Project; 
(f) 
at the request of the Borrower or the Association, exchange views with 
the Borrower and the Association with regard to the progress of the Project and the 
performance of their obligations under their respective Grant Agreements; 
(g) 
promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project or the 
performance by the DAs or local community groups of their obligations under the 
respective Grant Agreements; and 
(h) 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, neither 
take nor concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving their respective Grant Agreements. 
7. 
Prior to implementation of the Project, each Assembly shall execute a Grant 
Agreement with the Borrower.  The Grant Agreements shall include provisions to the 
effect that each Assembly shall: 
(a) 
prior to signing works or goods contracts for the Project or Grant 
Agreements: (i) establish and maintain a financial management system satisfactory to the 
Association; (ii) establish a project team, with staff in adequate numbers and with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) appoint key staff, 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b) 
provide the required information to CWSA for the preparation of the 
Financial Monitoring Report referred to in Section 4.02  within thirty days of the end of 
each quarter. 
8. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 31, 2006, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February 28, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
Page  25
-
24
-
24
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report an
d
the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  26
-
25
-
25
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement ; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
Page  27
-
26
-
26
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
Page  28
-
27
-
27
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
