Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBERS 3971-GH, 3971-1-GH and 4566-GH 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Amending and Restating Development Credit Agreement) 
 
(Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 14, 2009  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBERS 3971-GH, 3971-1-GH and 4566-GH 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
(Amending and Restating Development Credit Agreement) 
AGREEMENT dated August 14, 2009 entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
GHANA (
“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).   
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement, dated August 13, 2004, between 
 
the Recipient and the Association (“Development Credit Agreement”), the Association 
agreed to provide the Recipient with a credit (“Original Credit”) in an amount equivalent 
to seventeen million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,800,000) 
to assist in financing the Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project, as described 
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (“Original Project”);  
(B) under an agreement amending the Development Credit Agreement 
 
dated August 8, 2007, between the Recipient and the Association 
 
(“Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement”), the Association agreed to 
provide the Recipient with an additional credit (“First Additional Credit”) in an amount 
equivalent to six million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,600,000) 
to assist in financing the Original Project; 
(C) 
the Recipient has requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance in support of the Original Project, as fully described and restated in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”), by making available to the Recipient a second 
additional credit (“Second Additional Credit”) in an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to ten million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 10,200,000); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing 
to extend such additional assistance to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions  
set forth in this Agreement;  
NOW THEREFORE the Recipient and the Association hereby agree to amend 
and restate the Development Credit Agreement as amended to date, as of the  
Effective Date of this Agreement, to read as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in this Agreement or the General 
Conditions.  
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
thirty four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 34,600,000) (
variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) which consists 
 
of: (a) the Original Credit in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million 
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,800,000); (b) the First 
Additional Credit in various currencies equivalent to six million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,600,000); and (c) the Second 
Additional Credit in various currencies equivalent to ten million two hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,200,000), to assist in financing the 
Project.   
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are: (a) March 15 and September 15 in each year in respect 
of the Original Credit; and (b) June 15 and December 15 in each year in respect 
of the First Additional Credit and the Second Additional Credit. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity 
to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.  
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
Page  4
3
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a)
 
A
situation shall have arisen which will make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
(b) 
The Local Government Act (No. 462) of 1993 shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of DAs to perform any of their respective 
obligations under their respective Grant Agreements. 
(c) 
The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the DAs or 
for the suspension of their respective operations. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration shall be that any event specified in 
paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement occurs. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that Recipient and the Project 
Implementing Entity have executed an amended Subsidiary Grant Agreement for 
the purpose of on-granting the proceeds of the Financing to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter is that the amended Subsidiary Grant Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and the Project 
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Recipient and the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  5
4
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
P.O. Box MB40 
Accra, Ghana 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
ECONOMICON 
2205 MIFAEP GH 
 
233-21-667069 
Accra 
    `  233-21-663854 
 6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at Accra, Republic of Ghana, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
By /s/ Kwabena Duffuor
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Ishac Diwan
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to increase access to sustainable water supply and 
sanitation services in small towns in six regions of the Recipient.  
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program and consists of the 
following parts: 
Part A
:
Community Subprojects
Promotion, appraisal, design, carrying out, supervision, monitoring, evaluation 
and provision of Grants for the financing of Subprojects prepared and submitted by 
Beneficiaries, including, 
inter alia
,
communal boreholes equipped with hand pumps; 
mechanized boreholes with overhead tank, limited distribution networks and communal 
stand pipes; surface water supply systems storage and distribution network with 
standpipes; protected spring sources, with or without simple distribution networks and 
storage; household and school latrines; and all other water and sanitation technologies 
which meet all technical, environmental, financial, and sustainability requirements as 
specified in the POM. 
Part B
:
Sector Strengthening
1. 
Providers of Goods and Services: Provision of training and logistical support to 
 
non-governmental organizations and private service providers, to ensure that 
 
there is a competitive and efficient private sector to provide quality goods, works 
 
and services to communities under the Project, including simplification of 
 
procedures to encourage the participation of the small-scale entrepreneur, 
 
particularly to drilling contractors, drilling consultants and supervisors, spare 
 
parts suppliers, sanitation contractors, area mechanics, latrine artisans, small 
 
town water system operators, and providers of training and community 
 
development services.  
2. 
Public Sector: Provision of support to MWRWH, RCCs, DAs, ACs, DWSTs, and 
 
small towns to: (a) deliver cost-effective water and sanitation systems to small 
 
towns; (b) manage, monitor, evaluate and maintain water and sanitation systems 
 
in a sustainable manner through: (i) the provision of technical advisory services, 
 
training, logistical support; and (ii) the organization of orientation courses for DA 
 
personnel and orientation sessions to be implemented by the RWSTs for DA 
 
staff, education officers, school health program coordinators, and other relevant 
 
personnel covering information pertaining to the Project, the demand-based 
 
nature of the Project, contracting arrangements, financial management and 
 
production and distribution of easy-to-use district-level POMs; and (iii) the 
Page  8
7
provision of technical advisory services, equipment and training to support the 
 
development of the Borrower’s National Community Water and Sanitation 
 
Program, including, inter alia, initial equipment and vehicles for RWSTs. 
3. 
Provision of support at the national level, including participatory program reviews 
 
by stakeholders, topical research, mass media campaigns for disseminating hygiene 
 
education, external impact assessments, exchanges with other countries, and special 
 
studies for strategies to reduce the costs of investments and sustainable operation 
 
and maintenance and spare parts distribution. 
4. 
Strengthening the operational capacities of DWST’s to manage project 
 
implementation at district levels. 
Part C:
Program Management 
Strengthening the operational capacity of CWSA to enable it to implement the 
Program, including information and promotion, identification of small towns, assistance 
with proposal formulation, appraisal, and monitoring and evaluation, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and the payment of a Management Fee.  
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A.  
Steering Committee 
1. 
Coordination of all Project implementation activities shall be carried out by an 
inter-ministerial Steering Committee, comprising the Chief Director or Executive 
of MOFEP, MWRWH, MEST, MOH, MLGRD, the ministries of environment, 
science and technology, and CWSA.  The Steering Committee shall provide 
overall policy guidance and advise the various implementing agencies 
accordingly.  
2. 
The Steering Committee shall be chaired by the Minister for MWRWH, or his 
deputy, and shall meet quarterly in the first year of project implementation and 
semi-annually in subsequent years.   
3. 
Not later than November 30 of each year, the Steering Committee shall review 
the progress made in respect of Project implementation, institutional issues, 
procurement, disbursements, the involvement of the private sector, the 
achievements of the DAs according to the performance criteria referred to in 
the Project Operational Manual during the preceding year, and progress towards 
the objectives for the preceding year.   
4. 
The Recipient shall transmit to the Steering Committee, with a copy to the 
Association, at least 30 days prior to such review, a report, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Steering Committee and to the Association, prepared by 
CWSA and each DA, describing the status of progress regarding the items listed 
in paragraph 3 above and of Project implementation generally. 
B. Project 
Operational 
Manual 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
arrangements and procedures set out in the Project Operational Manual  
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof; provided, however, that 
in case of any conflict between the arrangements and procedures of the POM and 
the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Page  10
9
C. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards 
The Recipient shall ensure that, prior to commencing work on any community 
infrastructure and prior to any displacement of any Affected Persons from such 
works:  
1. 
all necessary land and other property is acquired and compensation and 
resettlement for such works is undertaken in accordance with the principles and 
institutional procedures established in the Resettlement Policy Framework;  
2. 
the Affected Persons are compensated, resettled and rehabilitated in accordance 
with the Resettlement Policy Framework; 
3. 
for provision of water and sanitation infrastructure involving resettlement of 
more than 20 persons, a detailed resettlement action plan acceptable to the 
Association is prepared and furnished to the Association, documenting the 
implementation arrangements for resettlement arising from such works, including 
compensation, relocation and rehabilitation of Affected Persons; 
4. 
such resettlement action plan is completed in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
5. 
an environmental management plan, satisfactory to the Association, is prepared 
and furnished to the Association in accordance with the provisions of the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework, and such plan is thereafter 
implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
D. 
CWSA and DAs 
1. 
CWSA shall be responsible for providing overall guidance and for promoting, 
facilitating, supervising, monitoring, evaluating, and reporting on all Project 
activities. CWSA shall carry out Parts B(3) and C of the Project directly through 
its own agents and staff.   
2. 
The District Assemblies or small towns, as the case may be, shall be responsible 
for the execution of Subprojects.   
E. Subprojects 
1. 
All districts and small towns which meet the following criteria shall be eligible 
for Grants under the Project and shall be allocated an investment ceiling each 
year by the regional water and sanitation team (RWST), in consultation with the 
regional authorities:  
Page  11
10
 
(a) 
In the case of districts, DAs shall have: (A) contributed 5% of the 
investment cost of the proposed Subprojects for the district, provided  
that this requirement shall not apply to new Subprojects in 11 towns  
selected for financing out of the proceeds of the Second Additional 
Credit; (B) appointed qualified technical staff to manage the 
implementation of Subprojects; (C) prepared a rolling district water and 
sanitation plan; and (D) submitted acceptable community Subproject 
proposals and associated procurement plans which meet the criteria 
described in the POM.  
 
(b) 
In the case of small towns: (A) the small towns shall have been selected 
initially by the DA based on criteria including poverty, service coverage, 
and conformity to the district development plans, and (B) the small 
towns shall have expressed willingness to contribute 5% of the cost of 
the proposed Subprojects (provided that this requirement shall not apply 
to new Subprojects in 11 towns selected for financing out of the proceeds 
of the Second Additional Credit), and to assume full responsibilities for 
the operation and maintenance of the Subproject facilities.  Only small 
towns that have submitted an application shall receive technical 
assistance to prepare a funding proposal.  Proposals that fully meet the 
appraisal criteria shall be funded, on a first-come, first-serve basis. 
2. 
All Subprojects shall include technical assistance and community development 
activities to enable the community to make informed choices, organize and 
ensure Subproject implementation (including contracting and works supervision) 
in a participatory manner, administer funds, and achieve the effective and 
sustained use of their facilities and to include clearly defined hygiene and 
sanitation promotion activities.   
3. 
The Subproject shall comply with the environmental requirements described in 
the POM, Environmental and Social Management Framework, and Resettlement 
Policy Framework.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 above, the investment 
cost of water and sanitation Subprojects shall be financed through 
 
a
10%
contribution from the DA and the community (the community paying at 
least 5%); provided that this requirement shall not apply to new Subprojects  
in 11 towns selected for financing out of the proceeds of the Second Additional 
Credit. 
5. 
CWSA shall ensure that Beneficiaries are involved in all stages of the Subproject 
cycle.  To that effect, each time a decision affecting a Subproject is made by the 
DA, on behalf of the Beneficiary, the Beneficiary shall be consulted and 
involved, through the appropriate channels, and in accordance with procedures 
specified in the POM, in approving all official documentation pertaining to 
Page  12
11
Subproject implementation (contract award, payment certificates, completion 
certificates).   
6. 
The Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing, allocated from 
time to time to the DAs and local communities, under Grant Agreements to be 
entered into between CWSA and each DA, or between a DA and local 
communities, respectively, under conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Association, which shall include the following obligations of the DAs to: 
(a) 
carry out or cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and 
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
engineering practices, with due regard to environmental factors, and in 
accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework, the Environmental 
and Social Management Framework, the Project Operational Manual and 
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients 
of loan proceeds other than the Recipient; and provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the facilities, services and other resources 
required for said Parts of the Project, including their counterpart 
contributions at levels satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
comply with the procedures for hiring of consultants and the 
procurement of goods and works set forth in Section III of this Schedule; 
(c) 
comply with the record keeping, auditing and report requirements set 
forth in Section II.B of this Schedule, including the annual auditing of its 
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income 
and expenses and related statements) required by the Recipient to meet 
its obligations under Section II.B of this Schedule; 
(d) 
make provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice; 
(e) 
in accordance with Section II.A of this Schedule: (i) participate  
in the review of the progress made in carrying out the Project;  
and (ii) thereafter prepare and implement an action plan, satisfactory to 
the Association, for the further implementation of the Project; 
(f) 
at the request of the Recipient or the Association, exchange views with 
the Recipient and the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project and the performance of their obligations under their respective 
Grant Agreements; 
(g) 
promptly inform the Recipient and the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project 
Page  13
12
or the performance by the DAs or local community groups of their 
obligations under the respective Grant Agreements; and 
(h) 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, neither 
take nor concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving their respective Grant Agreements or 
any provision thereof. 
7. 
CWSA, DAs, and legally constituted local community groups shall exercise their 
respective rights under each Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect  
the interests of CWSA, the DAs, legally constituted local community groups and 
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing, and except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the CWSA, the DAs, and legally 
constituted local community groups shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
the Grant Agreements or any provision thereof. 
8. 
Prior to implementation of the Project, each DA shall execute a memorandum of 
understanding with the CWSA.  The memorandum of understanding shall 
include provisions to the effect that each DA shall: 
(a) 
prior to signing works or goods contracts for the Project or Grant 
Agreements: (i) establish and maintain a financial management system 
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) establish a project team, with staff in 
adequate numbers and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Association; and (iii) appoint key staff, with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b) 
provide the required information to CWSA for the preparation of the 
interim unaudited financial report referred to in Section II.B.2 of this 
Schedule within thirty days of the end of each quarter. 
F. 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary 
grant agreement between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, 
under terms and conditions approved by the Association.  
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement  
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any of its provisions
.
Page  14
13
G. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is monitored and evaluated and that 
Project Reports are prepared in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the 
Association.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar year, 
and shall be furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the 
 
General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit 
 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of  
the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such 
period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
A
ll consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
Page  15
14
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following methods 
of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used  
for goods and works in the circumstances specified in the Procurement  
Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 
of this Part B; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting. 
3.
 
Exceptions to National Competitive Bidding Procedures.  
The following 
provisions shall apply to the procurement of goods and works under National 
Competitive Bidding procedures: (a) foreign bidders shall be allowed to 
participate in National Competitive Bidding procedures without restriction of any 
kind; (b) bidders shall be given at least one month to submit bids from the date of 
the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is 
later; (c) no domestic preference shall be given for domestic bidders and for 
domestically manufactured goods; and (d) in accordance with paragraph 1.14(e) 
of the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and contract financed out 
of the proceeds of the Financing shall provide that: (i) the bidders, suppliers, 
contractors and subcontractors shall permit the Association, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and 
 
performance of the contract, and to have said accounts and records audited by 
auditors appointed by the Association; and (ii) the deliberate and material 
violation by the bidder, supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such provision 
may amount to an obstructive practice as defined in paragraph 1.14(a)(v) of the 
Procurement Guidelines. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Page  16
15
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be 
used for 
consultants’ services in the circumstances specified in the Procurement 
Plan: (a) Quality Based Selection; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Selection Based 
on Consultants Qualifications; (d) Single Source Selection; (e) Selection  
of Individual Consultants; and (f) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants. 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects
”
dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.  
2. 
The following table specifies the Categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing, the allocations of the amounts  
of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures  
to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  17
16
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Original Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR 
Equivalent) 
Amount of the 
First Additional 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR 
Equivalent) 
Amount of the 
Second 
Additional 
Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR 
Equivalent) 
%
of
Expenditures 
to be 
Financed 
(exclusive of 
Taxes)  
(1) Grants for 
financing the 
reasonable cost 
of works, goods 
and services 
required for 
Subprojects 
15,157,00
0
5,840,000 9,180,000 
100% 
of 
amounts 
disbursed 
(2) Goods 
430,000 
0 
0 
100% of 
Foreign 
Expenditures 
and 90% of 
Local 
Expenditures 
(3) Consultants’ 
services and 
training 
963,000 430,000 680,000 
90% 
(4) Management 
Fee under Part C 
of the Project 
1,250,000 330,000 340,000 
100% 
(5) Unallocated 
0 
0 
0 
 
 
TOTAL 
 
17,800,000 
 
6,600,000 
 
10,200,000 
 
Page  18
17
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
(i) with respect to amounts of the Original Credit, for payments made 
prior to the date of the Development Credit Agreement, except that 
withdrawals of amounts of the Original Credit, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000, may be made on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
 
June 3, 2004; (ii) with respect to amounts of the First Additional Credit, 
for payments made prior to the date of the Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement; and (iii) with respect to amounts of  
the Second Additional Credit, for payments made prior to the date  
of this Agreement.  
(b)  
for Grants under Category (1) unless the Subprojects have been prepared 
in accordance with the procedures and terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
2.
 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2010. 
 
Page  19
18
 SCHEDULE 
3
 
Repayment Schedule 
I.  
Repayment of the Original Credit 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Original Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing September 15, 2014, to and 
including March 15, 2024. 
1% 
commencing September 15, 2024, to and 
including March 15, 2044. 
2% 
II.  
Repayment of the First Additional Credit 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the First Additional 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing December 15, 2017, to and 
including June 15, 2027. 
1% 
commencing December 15, 2027, to and 
including June 15, 2047. 
2% 
II.  
Repayment of the Second Additional Credit 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Second 
Additional Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing June 15, 2019, to and 
including December 15, 2028. 
1.25% 
commencing June 15, 2029, to and 
including December 15, 2043. 
2.5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  20
19
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“AC” means an Area Council, established and operating pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Local Government Act, No. 462 of 1993. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
 
“Affected Person” means any person who on account of the acquisition of land, 
including plantation land, for purposes of establishing relocation sites under the 
Project had or would have his or her:  (i) standard of living adversely affected; or 
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to use any land 
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or right in annual or perennial 
crops and trees or any other fixed or movable asset, acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently, and 
“Affected Persons” means, collectively, all persons who qualify as an Affected 
Person.  
4. 
“Beneficiary” means a community based organization, local government unit, 
group of individuals, a small town, a district or a community to whom or for 
whose benefit a Grant is made, or proposed to be made, for a Subproject under 
the Project. 
5. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
7. 
“DA” means a District Assembly established pursuant to the Recipient’s Local 
Government Act, No.  462 of 1993. 
8. 
“Decentralization Secretariat” means the secretariat under the MLGRD for 
implementation and coordination of the Decentralization Action Plan of the 
Recipient. 
9. 
“DWST” means district water and sanitation teams, appointed by the respective 
DAs. 
Page  21
20
10. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the framework 
document dated May 2004, including the addendum to the said framework dated 
February 2009, setting out the mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and 
institutional measures to be taken during the design, implementation and 
operation of Subprojects to eliminate any adverse environmental and social 
impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or to enhance positive 
impacts. 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
12. 
“Grant” means an amount, out of the proceeds of the Financing, to be made 
available to a Beneficiary for the purpose of carrying out a Subproject. 
13. 
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between CWSA and a 
DA or between a DA and a legally constituted local community group for the 
purpose of carrying out a Subproject. 
14. 
“Local Government Service Act” means the Recipient’s Act No. 656 of 2003. 
15. 
“Management Fee” means the remuneration provided to CWSA on account of its 
services to be rendered for the implementation of the Project as provided in the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
16. 
“MEST” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Environment, Science and 
Technology. 
17. 
“MLGRD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Local Government and Rural 
Development.  
18. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance.  
19. 
“MOH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health. 
20. 
“MWRWH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Water Resources, Works and 
Housing. 
21. 
“National Community Water and Sanitation Program” means the Recipient’s 
program established in 1994 to achieve sustainability in the provision of water 
supply and sanitation facilities and hygiene promotion services through the 
adoption of a community ownership and management strategy. 
22. 
 “National Decentralization Action Plan” means the Recipient’s strategy for 
implementation of decentralization programs in the territory of the Recipient. 
Page  22
21
23. 
“POM” means the Project Operational Manual referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement containing, 
inter alia
,
work programs, training 
programs, monitoring and performance indicators and procedures to be used for 
the purposes of implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, in consultation with, and with the approval of, the Association, and 
such term includes any schedules to the Project Operational Manual. 
24. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised  
in October 2006. 
25. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association and referred to in paragraph 
1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with 
the provisions of said paragraphs. 
26. 
“Program” means the program described in the letter dated June 4, 2004 from the 
Recipient setting out actions, objectives and policies designed to strengthen the 
Recipient’s water and sanitation sector and declaring the Recipient’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program. 
27. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and the 
Project Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
28. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Community Water and Sanitation 
Agency, established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Community Water 
and Sanitation Act 564 of 1998. 
29. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework document dated  
May 2004, including the addendum to the said framework dated February 2009, 
setting out arrangements and procedures for land acquisition, resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons under the Project.  
30. 
“RCC” means a Regional Coordinating Council, established and operating 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Local Government Act, No. 462 of 1993. 
31. 
“RWST” means Regional Water and Sanitation Teams established by, and as 
regional departments of CWSA.   
32. 
“Subproject” means a specific development project pertaining to the 
construction, repair, or rehabilitation of water and sanitation infrastructure 
Page  23
22
facilities, or community training in water and sanitation matters financed, or 
proposed to be financed, through a Grant extended under Part A of the Project. 
33. 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Recipient and CWSA pursuant to Part I.F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
Section 3.01 (b) of the General Conditions is modified to read as follows:   
 
“
(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after: (i) the 
date of the Development Credit Agreement with respect to the unwithdrawn 
balance of the Original Credit; (ii) the date of the Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement with respect to the unwithdrawn balance of the 
First Additional Credit; and (iii) the date of the Financing Agreement  
(Amending and Restating Development Credit Agreement) with respect to the 
unwithdrwan balance of the Second Additional Credit, to the respective dates on 
which amounts are withdrawn by the Recipient from the Financing Account  
or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall accrue at the rate set as of the  
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rate as may be 
set from time to time thereafter pursuant to this Section. The rate set as of  
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next Payment Date in that  
year. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each 
Payment Date. The Commitment Charge shall be computed on the basis of  
a
360-day year of twelve 30-
day months.”
 
