Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBERS 3971-GH, 3971-1-GH and 4566-GH
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION AGENCY 
 
Dated August 14, 2009  
 
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBERS 3971-GH, 3971-1-GH and 4566-GH
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 14, 2009, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and COMMUNITY WATER AND 
SANITATION AGENCY (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection 
with the Financing Agreement Amending and Restating the Development Credit Agreement 
(“Financing Agreement”) of same date between the Republic of Ghana (“Recipient) and the 
Association.  The Association and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
and the Program.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and shall 
provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Schedule to this Agreement as well as the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Financing 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE IV 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is its Chief Executive. 
4.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 Private 
Mail 
Bag 
 
Kotoka International Airport 
 Accra 
 Ghana 
 
Facsimile: 
 23321 
779475 
 
Page  4
3
AGREED at Accra, Republic of Ghana, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Ishac Diwan
 
Authorized Representative 
 
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION AGENCY 
 
By /s/ Gyau Boakye  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 
Execution of the Project 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. CWSA 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall be responsible for providing overall guidance and 
for promoting, facilitating, supervising, monitoring, evaluating, and reporting on all 
Project activities. The Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Parts B(3) and C of the 
Project directly through its own agents and staff.    
B. Project 
Operational 
Manual 
The Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
arrangements and procedures set out in the Project Operational Manual (provided, 
however, that in case of any conflict between the arrangements and procedures of the 
POM and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall 
prevail) and, except as the Association and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, the 
Project Implementing Entity shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision 
thereof. 
C. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards 
1. 
In order to ensure the safety of any dams to be constructed or rehabilitated under the 
Project, the Project Implementing Entity shall ensure: 
(a) 
that engineering experts, with qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
resources acceptable to the Association, remain responsible for reviewing the 
adequacy of the design and construction of said dam and its associated structures, 
and for inspecting said dam and structures periodically following the construction 
thereof. 
(b) 
that said engineering experts shall, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association: (i) undertake periodic reviews of said dam and its associated 
structures and their design, throughout the period of design and construction 
thereof; (ii) prepare and furnish to the Association upon completion of each said 
review, a report on the results of said review, together with any proposed changes 
to be introduced in the design or construction of said dam or its associated 
structures; and (iii) promptly introduce such changes, taking into account the 
comments of the Association on the matter. 
(c) 
with the assistance of independent engineering experts whose qualifications and 
experience shall be acceptable to the Association, that: (i) said dam (including 
waterways, earthworks and reservoir banks) and its associated structures shall be 
periodically inspected, in accordance with sound engineering and dam safety 
Page  6
5
practices and under arrangements acceptable to the Association, in order to 
identify any deficiencies in the condition of said dam and its associated 
structures, or in the quality and adequacy of their maintenance or methods of 
operation, which may endanger their safety; (ii) the results of each such 
inspection, together with the recommendations of said engineering experts based 
on said inspection, shall be furnished to the Association promptly upon the 
completion of such inspection; and (iii) all necessary repairs of said dam and its 
associated structures, modifications to the maintenance or method of operation of 
the same and other measures based on said recommendations and the comments 
of the Association thereon shall be promptly taken in order to rectify any such 
deficiencies; and 
(d) 
to this end, prepare a program for the appropriate maintenance, operation and 
inspection of said dam and its associated structures, and promptly furnish the 
same to the Association and thereafter, promptly implement said program and 
arrangements, taking into account the Association's views on the matter. 
4. 
CWSA shall ensure that, prior to commencing work on any community infrastructure and 
prior to any displacement of any Affected Persons from such works:  
(a) 
all necessary land and other property is acquired and compensation and 
resettlement for such works is undertaken in accordance with the principles and 
institutional procedures established in the Resettlement Policy Framework; 
(b) 
the Affected Persons are compensated, resettled and rehabilitated in accordance 
with the Resettlement Policy Framework;  
 
(c) 
for provision of water and sanitation infrastructure involving resettlement of 
more than 20 persons, a detailed resettlement action plan acceptable to the 
Association is prepared and furnished to the Association, documenting the 
implementation arrangements for resettlement arising from such works, including 
compensation, relocation and rehabilitation of Affected Persons; 
(d) 
such resettlement action plan is completed in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(e) 
an environmental management plan, satisfactory to the Association, is prepared 
and furnished to the Association in accordance with the provisions of the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework, and such plan is thereafter 
implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
D. Subprojects 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that Subprojects are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.E of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
 
Page  7
6
E. 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Project Implementing Entity shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or 
any provision thereof. 
F. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project 
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each such 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the 
Recipient not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report for 
incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient to the Association of the overall Project 
Report.  
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Recipient not later than four months 
after the Closing Date, for incorporation in the report referred to in Section 4.08 (c) of the 
General Conditions all such information as the Recipient or the Association shall 
reasonably request for the purposes of such Section. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and 
financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Project Implementing 
Entity shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to above 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association.  Each audit of these 
financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year.  The audited financial 
Page  8
7
statements for each period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months 
after the end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
 
