                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001522



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                  (IDA-39710, IDA-39711 and IDA-45660)



                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 34.6 MILLION
                        (US$ 51 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                          GOVERNMENT OF GHANA

                                      FOR A

             SMALL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT



                                January 31, 2011




Urban and Water Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCW1
Africa Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2010)


                   Currency Unit = Ghanaian Cedi
                    GH 1.4852 = US$1
                     US$ 0.6493 = SDR 1


                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community Based Organization
CBRDP    Community Based Rural Development Project
CWSA     Community Water and Sanitation Agency
CWSP     Community Water and Sanitation Project
DANIDA   Danish International Development Agency
DTRB     District Tender Review Board
DWSP     District Water and Sanitation Plan
DWST     District Water and Sanitation Team
DA       District Assembly
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
GoG      Government of Ghana
GPRS     Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
MMDAs    Metropolitan, Municipal or District Assemblies
MDG      Millennium Development Goals
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MLGRD    Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MoFEP    Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MWRWH    Ministry of Water Resources Works and Housing
NCWSP    National Community Water and Sanitation Project
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PIM      Project Implementation Manual
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
RCC      Regional Coordinating Council
RTRB     Regional Tender Review Board

                                  ii
RWSS     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
RWST     Regional Water and Sanitation Team
SDR      Special Drawing Right
STWSSP   Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project
WSDB     Water and Sanitation Development Board


                      Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                   Country Director: Ishac Diwan
                     Sector Director: Jamal Saghir
                    Sector Manager: Junaid Kamal Ahmad
                Project Team Leader: Ventura Bengoechea
                   ICR Team Leader: Emmanuel Nkrumah




                                    iii
                                          GHANA
                            Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 10
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 10
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 12
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 14
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 15
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 16
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 17
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 25
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 30
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 42
MAP




                                                           iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Small Towns Water
Country:                Ghana                   Project Name:            Supply and Sanitation
                                                                         Project
                                                                         IDA-39710,IDA-
Project ID:             P084015                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                         39711,IDA-45660
ICR Date:               01/31/2011              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                         GHANA
Original Total
                        XDR 17.8M               Disbursed Amount:        XDR 29.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 29.8M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Community Water and Sanitation Agency
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/10/2003     Effectiveness:             11/17/2004       11/17/2004
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):                           05/12/2009
Approval:             07/27/2004     Mid-term Review:           07/03/2007       07/10/2007
                                     Closing:                   04/30/2009       04/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                  5                    5
Sanitation                                                            20                   10
Sub-national government administration                                 5                    5
Water supply                                                          70                   80


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                      17                   20
Other human development                                               33                   30
Rural services and infrastructure                                     33                   40
Small and medium enterprise support                                   17                   10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Ishac Diwan                          Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:            Junaid Kamal Ahmad                   Inger Andersen
Project Team Leader:       Ventura Bengoechea                   Paul Kriss
ICR Team Leader:           Emmanuel Nkrumah
ICR Primary Author:        Emmanuel Nkrumah


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To increase access to small towns water supply and sanitation services in six regions over
the next 4 years, providing 500,000 people with water supply facilities, and 50,000
people with sanitary facilities.


                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To increase access to small towns water supply and sanitation services in six regions over
the next 4 years, providing 550,000 people with water supply facilities, and 50,000
people with sanitary facilities.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target       Completion or
                                             documents)          Values        Target Years
                Provide 550,000 people with access to water supply an 50,000 people with
Indicator 1 :
                access to sanitation
                                                             550,000 and
                                         500,000 and                        561,754 and 50,424
                                                             50,000 people
Value                                    50,000 people with                 people gained
                                                             with access to
quantitative or 0                        access to water                    access to water and
                                                             water and
Qualitative)                             and sanitation,                    sanitation,
                                                             sanitation,
                                         respectively                       respectively
                                                             respectively
Date achieved 05/17/2004                 11/17/2004          05/12/2009     04/30/2010
Comments
                PDO targets were fully achieved and slightly exceeded for access to water and
(incl. %
                sanitation (102.14% for water and 1.01%, respectively)
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                  Participating small towns effectively using their systems and managing them in a
                  sustainable manner. Number of Water Boards fully trained through project,
Indicator 1 :
                  water systems completed, functioning as designed and collecting fees to cover
                  O&M
Value
(quantitative     0                         100%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/17/2004                11/17/2004                        04/30/2010
Comments
                  A total of 73 Water Boards were formed and trained and 73 systems were
(incl. %
                  completed and are working as designed and collection fees to cover O&M
achievement)
                Capacity of participating districts, regional governments, Water Directorate at
Indicator 2 :
                the MWRWH and private sector developed to fulfill their roles
                                           100% of                           100% of
Value                                      participating                     participating
(quantitative   0                          districts and                     districts and
or Qualitative)                            regional                          regional
                                           governments                       governments


                                                 iii
Date achieved 05/17/2004                  11/17/2004                         04/30/2010
              All participating 44 districts and the corresponding 6 regional governments
Comments
              received capacity, as well as 58 private service providers. Water Directorate
(incl. %
              received support from other donors in line with Paris Declaration for
achievement)
              coordination and harmonization

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                        IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     11/24/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.00
  2     04/21/2005         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         2.50
  3     11/22/2005         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         2.50
  4     03/24/2006         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         3.44
  5     09/25/2006         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         7.62
  6     03/19/2007         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       10.13
  7     09/12/2007         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       12.70
  8     03/11/2008         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       16.82
  9     08/07/2008         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       18.63
 10     02/06/2009         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       21.99
 11     06/21/2009         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       27.48
 12     12/01/2009     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                34.25



H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 05/12/2009       Y       S       S          25.93


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                   Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                      Satisfactory




                                              iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country background: In 1988 the Government of Ghana initiated a decentralization policy that assigned
responsibilities in the following manner: (i) policy making, overall planning, facilitation, monitoring,
evaluation and promotion were assigned to central government ministries and departments; (ii) facility
planning, design, implementation and operation were assigned to local governments; and (iii) coordination and
oversight were assigned to the Regional Coordinating Councils (RCCs) and their respective Regional Planning
Coordinating Units. The decentralization reforms are enshrined in the 1992 Constitution, which stipulates that
“Parliament shall enact appropriate laws to ensure that functions, powers and responsibilities and resources are
at all times transferred from central government to local government units in a coordinated manner.” In 1993,
the Government enacted Local Government Act (Act 462) to regulate political and administrative
arrangements for local government units (Metropolitan, Municipal or District Assemblies, MMDAs). Since
then, several other laws pertaining to local governance systems have been enacted.1 In line with the
decentralization policy, the mandate for implementation of development programs lies with the respective
District Assemblies.
Sector background: The Government of Ghana’s strategy for rural water supply and sanitation was embedded
in the Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) and stressed that increasing access to potable water and
sanitation was key to achieving health outcomes and sustained poverty reduction. The draft National Water
Policy of April 2004 emphasized the need for community ownership of facilities, based on a demand-driven
approach and private sector participation in the supply of goods and services. It further stated that the overall
objective of the Community Water Supply and Sanitation Program was to “improve the public health and
economic well-being of rural and small town communities through provision of adequate, safe and sustainable
water for domestic, commercial and industrial purposes in a planned and coordinated manner, with integrated
hygiene education and sanitation interventions.” The draft policy letter validated the GoG’s commitment to a
demand-driven strategy, where communities pay a percentage of the capital costs of systems as well as all of
the operations and maintenance costs, and are responsible for planning and managing their facilities. The
demand-driven approach was seen as key to promoting sustainability of the systems. Other key principles
included creating an adequate market for spare parts and repair services, ensuring participation of all
stakeholders, promoting the active involvement of women in all phases of water supply and sanitation, and
clearly defining and promoting the role of the informal and formal private sector.

Rationale for Bank involvement: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) was identified as a priority area
by the Ghana GPRS, and achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) was a key consideration in
scaling-up investments in the water sector. Consequently, the FY04-07 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
included ample support to the reforms and to the increase in coverage in Ghana’s water sector. The 2 support
was to be provided by means of this Small Town Water Supply and Sanitation Project (STWSSP) and the
Community Based Rural Development Project (CBRDP). The World Bank was an active player in the rural
sector in Ghana by means of several on-going projects in the areas of agriculture, health, education, and
decentralization. The Bank’s comparative advantage was in its long history in the water and rural sectors in
Ghana. In addition, the STWSSP could assist with refining the district-based RWSS programs in six regions.

1
 The laws enacted since 1993 include: 1994 National Planning Act 480; 1994 Local Government (Urban, Zonal and Town Councils
and Unit Committees) Establishment Instrument (LI 1589); 2003 Local Government Service Act 656; 2003 District Assembly’s
Common Fund Act 455; 2003 Audit Service Act 584; 2003 Financial Administration Act 654; 2003 Internal Audit Act 658; 2003
Procurement Act 663; 2004 Financial Administration Regulations (LI 1802); and Local Government District Tender Board
Regulations (LI 1606).

2
  Second phase of the Second Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP2). This Adaptable Program Loan (APL) was
approved in 1999 to empower district assemblies to plan, design and execute their own RWSS programs. The program’s ultimate
objective was to support the GoG in its goal to extend access to, and increase the sustainability of, RWSS facilities
                                              3
Further, under the previous project , there had been a significant amount of analytical work and a few
associated pilot activities related to innovative management models for small town water supply and the
promotion of private sector involvement. Therefore, the second phase provided the opportunity to
systematically apply these lessons on a large scale.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators

The original Project Development Objective (PDO) was to increase access to water supply and sanitation
services to small towns located in six regions of Ghana over a period of five years, providing 500,000 people
with water supply facilities, and 50,000 people with sanitation facilities. This equaled approximately 8.3
percent and 0.94 percent of the incremental population to be reached in order to achieve the water and
sanitation MDGs, respectively.

The key development indicators for measuring principal project outcomes included;

      a) Number of Water Boards trained and functioning

      b) Number of people served with improved access to water supply

      c) Number of people served with improved access to sanitation facilities

1.3 Revised Project Development Objective (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

The original PDO of providing 500,000 people with water supply facilities was increased to 550,000 as a
result of the additional financing approved by the Board on May 12, 2009. The target population for sanitation
coverage and the key indicators remained the same. The justification for this additional financing was: (i) to
finance unanticipated cost overruns in community water supply and sanitation subprojects to enable the
Borrower to complete the project activities and achieve the original development objectives, and (ii) to further
expand access to water supply services to some of the beneficiary regions whose water supply coverage was
relatively very low, as compared to the national coverage, as part of the efforts to meet the MDG target.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project involved the provision of water supply and sanitation facilities to 734 small town communities in
44 districts in six regions in Ghana: Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Upper East, Upper West, Central, and Western. It
addressed the main issues related to the provision of small towns’ water supply and sanitation services, as well
as measures of institution building and capacity enhancement of several sector institutions.

1.5 Original Components

The project was the second phase of the Community Water and Sanitation Program (CWSP2). The main
difference between the first phase (CWSP2-1) and the second phase (CWSP2-2) was that the second phase
focused on small town water and sanitation systems while the first included community systems. The project
had three components: Community Subprojects (US$24.8 million, of which IDA contributed US$21.6


3
    First phase of the CWSP2 APL

4
    The original target of 62 communities was increased to 73 with the additional funding approved for the project.

                                                                   2
million); Sector Support (US$3.7 million, of which IDA contributed US$3.1 million); and Project
Management (US$2.5 million, of which IDA contributedUS$1.3 million).

Component 1 - Community Subprojects: This component provided resources for water and sanitation services
in four types of contexts:

      a) Small town subprojects planned but not implemented under CWSP2-1

      b) New small town systems (planned and implemented under STWSSP)

      c) Rehabilitation of existing small town systems

      d) Institutional and household sanitation facilities and hygiene promotion activities in small towns

This component provided assistance to small towns and schools through grants to respective District
Assemblies (DAs) for: (i) the construction/rehabilitation of their water and sanitation facilities; and (ii)
financing technical assistance and community development activities to strengthen small towns’ capacity to
plan, implement, operate and maintain water and sanitation facilities in an effective and sustainable manner.
The subprojects were to be implemented on the principle of community demand which required financial
contribution from the small town and the DA (5 percent each for water supply, institutional latrines, and more
for household sanitation), and to be accompanied by community development and technical assistance
support. The target groups for this component were dwellers in small towns located in the six selected regions.
The component improved the quality of life in several ways, including a reduction in the incidence of water-
borne and excreta-related diseases, as well as increased time-savings, productivity, and school attendance.

Component 2 - Sector Support: This component supported training and technical assistance for key
stakeholders to improve their capacity to fulfill their sector roles. Support was provided to: (i) DAs, District
Works Departments and District Water and Sanitation Teams (DWST) by providing basic equipment (e.g.
computers, motorbikes) and practical training in procurement, contract management, accounting, hygiene, and
community participation; (ii) local providers of goods and services, through a voucher scheme which
facilitated demand-driven training for the private sector and community-based organizations (CBOs); (iii)
development of training materials (such as community and district operational manuals) and studies related to
monitoring and evaluation (M&E); (iv) regional structures involved in project monitoring, such as the
Regional Coordinating Council (RCC), which received general orientation on the project and sector and
specific training in the area of M&E activities, and Regional Water and Sanitation Team (RWST) staff who
received training to address their specific capacity building needs; and (v) the Directorate for Water in the
Ministry of Water Resources Works and Housing (MWRWH)5, which received support through training and
technical assistance to enable it to fulfill its role in planning and monitoring overall RWSS access in the
country and progress towards meeting the MDGs.

Component 3 - Program Management: This component provided a management fee to the Community
Water and Sanitation Agency (CWSA) to support incremental costs incurred by the Agency to manage the
project. The component assisted CWSA to develop its role as a facilitator and strengthen sector planning,
donor coordination, funds mobilization, and program management role.

1.6 Revised Components




5
    Formerly (at the time of appraisal) Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH)

                                                                3
The activities financed under the different components were not revised. However, the amounts allocated for
each of the components were increased as a result of two additional credits. The original Credit Agreement
was amended on August 8, 2007 to provide an additional financing of US$10 million equivalent. A second
additional credit of US$15 million equivalent was approved on May 12, 2009. The additional financing was
requested in view of an anticipated financing gap due to: (i) higher per capita investment costs than projected
resulting from predominance of participating towns with smaller population sizes; and (ii) significant increase
in the cost of imported construction materials in the entire region, and in Ghana in particular, by the time the
tenders took place. The second additional financing helped also to scale up access to water in four regions
where access to clean water was low compared to the national average and the population was suffering from
water borne disease such as guinea-worm infections. Scaling up the impact in those districts under a well-
performing project was considered the best way to respond to the urgent needs of the population. Therefore,
the second additional financing supported the provision of access to water supply to 50,000 more people by
including an additional 11 towns in four of the beneficiary regions.

The final breakdown of the financing for the various components was as follows:

       Component 1: Community Subproject (US$42.5 million)
       Component 2: Sector Support (US$6.3 million)
       Component 3: Project Management (US$2.9 million)

By the April 30, 2010 Project Closing Date, there was a remnant of US$7.5 million that was cancelled, out of
the total of about US$54 million equivalent provided between the original and the two additional credit
financings. The project savings were mainly a result of local currency devaluation against the US dollar and
the US dollar against the SDR.

1.7 Other significant changes

The Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project became effective in November 2004 and was
scheduled to close on April 30, 2009. The project closing date was extended by 12 months to allow for the
construction of additional water supply systems. The project closed on April 30, 2010 and a four-month grace
period was granted to submit disbursement applications for works completed, goods delivered, or services
provided before the closing date.

A significant change was agreed during the negotiations for the second additional financing to build 11 new
small town water systems. Indeed, the requirement that the District Assemblies and beneficiaries each
contribute 5 percent of the capital cost was removed at the request of the GoG. The justification was that the
new beneficiary communities had relatively low income levels, and also, because of fiscal constraints, the
GoG would not be able to provide additional budgetary funds to the districts to meet their share of the
subproject costs. This was in line with a statement made by the new administration to waive community
contributions upon taking office in January 2009. Therefore, IDA agreed to finance 100 percent of subproject
costs of the 11 new small town water systems. However, this change of rules during the course of the
implementation of the project created problems with the collection of contributions from the existing
beneficiaries that were not part of the waiver.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was designed taking into account the GoG’s decentralization policy and lessons from previous
projects. Therefore, the project provided technical assistance (TA) to increase local government capacity for
subproject planning, design, and implementation. The first project to operationalize the Ghana National
                                                       4
Community Water and Sanitation Program (NCWSP) was the CWSP2, which made the DAs play pivotal roles
in the planning, implementation, and management of sustainable safe water supply and improved sanitation
facilities and services. The STWSSP deepened the process of decentralization by building local level
capacities to implement the project, with CWSA as facilitator. Resources, according to the project design,
were channeled to District Assemblies based on their expressed demand to provide water supply and
sanitation facilities to their communities.

The project also supported strengthening CWSA’s role as facilitator and coordinator of the national
community water and sanitation program implementation. The project preparation process included a study on
major topics related to project implementation such as: (i) contract management; (ii) institutional
implementation and arrangements; (iii) financing and flow of funds; (iv) sanitation and hygiene education; and
(v) small town water supply. Several other studies reviewed the community participation and capacity aspects
of the first phase of the CWSP2. It also included conclusions based on experience from other Bank and
Development Partners (DP) funded projects, as well as other sector reviews and papers.

All District Assemblies located within the project regions were eligible to benefit from the project. However,
in line with the demand driven approach for community water and sanitation projects, to access subproject
grants the DAs had to: (i) contribute 5 percent of the investment cost of anticipated subprojects for the district;
(ii) appoint qualified technical staff to manage subproject implementation; (iii) prepare a rolling district water
and sanitation plan (DWSP) to be reviewed and updated annually; and (iv) submit acceptable subproject
proposals and procurement plans.

After the selection of the beneficiary districts, the next step was selection of the beneficiary small towns. The
small towns were initially selected by the DA based on criteria that included: poverty, existing water and
sanitation facilities, district-development plans, and expressed willingness of community members to
contribute 5 percent of the cost and assume full responsibilities for operation and maintenance (O&M) of the
selected facilities. Consistent with the demand driven approach, small towns were requested to submit an
application form and deposit a minimum fee into their bank account. Only communities that had submitted a
completed application were included in the project on a first-come, first-served basis.

With regard to sanitation, approaches were developed to: (i) provide a robust framework for promoting
sanitation and hygiene in small towns; and (ii) establish a cost-sharing arrangement to ease the burden on
households in the construction of appropriate latrine. The project provided TA to assist CWSA, which had
little experience with small town sanitation and had not yet defined an appropriate approach to the issue. The
approach included the provision of latrine technologies which comprised mainly low-cost sanitation options.


2.2 Implementation

Project Changes/Restructuring
The key project changes were the one-year extension of the project closing date, the adjustments to the project
cost, financing plan, and outcome indicators following the two additional credits, and the change in
government policy to curtail the 5 percent community contributions. The change in policy with regard to the
community contribution was a major deviation from the original project design which was premised on the
demand-responsive approach as a key contributor to systems sustainability. The government policy required 5
percent contribution by communities and 5 percent contribution from the District Assemblies. There were no
changes to project development objectives or project design, implementation arrangements, financial
management, and procurement arrangements.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

                                                        5
The project’s monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system was designed to serve as a tool for project
stakeholders, enabling them to assess implementation on a timely basis so that the project objectives and
corresponding targets could be evaluated and corrective measures applied, if necessary. The M&E system was
based on a participatory approach, with stakeholder groups given training and responsibility to perform their
respective roles.

With regard to data collection for M&E, a mixture of methodologies was used to obtain data for the proposed
project’s outcome and results indicators. These included: (i) traditional methods of data gathering, analysis,
and reporting to monitor implementation progress (i.e. CWSA quarterly reporting on activities and outputs as
well as periodic technical audits of districts); (ii) participatory methods that brought together on a regular basis
the beneficiary communities (represented by the members of the Community Water and Sanitation
Development Boards), the DAs as project implementers, and the CWSA as facilitators of the overall project
implementation, to evaluate the effectiveness and sustainability of activities undertaken and provide feedback
for improving processes; and (iii) periodic field supervision missions by the World Bank. The periodic
participatory M&E workshops provided opportunity to discuss results with all stakeholder groups.

A key task of the M&E system was to report on progress toward meeting the MDG targets as well as
identification of any constraints affecting implementation. CWSA’s annual work plans indicated their
relationship with MDG targets, and the quarterly reports indicated progress against completion targets. The
reports were distributed to the Regional Coordinating Councils and the Minister of Water Resources Works
and Housing.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The CWSA had gained good experience in safeguards issues from previous projects, and they demonstrated
this in the project. Key project staff were conversant with basic safeguards requirements of projects. Cases of
environmental and social safeguards relating to the project were addressed with required compensation paid to
affected persons. Through capacity building programs, Water and Sanitation Development Boards (WSDBs)
at the community level had acquired fair knowledge of safeguard issues. Some WSDBs included land
acquisition, with appropriate documentation, in their site meeting reports. CWSA facilitated the safeguard
process based on agreed actions at support missions which included: (i) a closer reference to the project’s
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), (ii) engagement of consultants to monitor implementation; (iii)
making available documentation on plots acquired for construction; (iv) enforcement of safeguards measures
during construction work (e.g. ensuring that construction workers wear the appropriate protective clothing).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Water and Sanitation Development Boards in each of the beneficiary communities were trained to take
over the water supply systems operations. So far, all the water supply systems are working under the oversight
of the District Assemblies with facilitation by the CWSA Regional offices. The District Assemblies have the
DWSTs responsible for monitoring the operations of the small towns within the districts. District Works
Departments with Water and Sanitation Units have been established in some of the districts to monitor
operations. The CWSA has also prepared an Operations Manual that will guide the operation and maintenance
of the systems.

With respect to gender, the WSDBs at the various small towns demonstrated their commitment to gender
equity and representation as all the water boards had women representatives with some of the women as
executive members. Some of the women, notably queen mothers in the traditional authorities, were already
involved in key decision making aspects of project implementation such as fixing of tariffs, participation in
site meetings, and general consultation and engagement on the project activities.

                                                         6
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

The project objective was consistent with the Government’s strategy for rural water supply and sanitation as
embedded in the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) which stresses that increasing access to potable
water and sanitation is key to achieving health outcomes and sustained poverty reduction.

The GPRS contained five medium-term priorities: infrastructure, modernized agriculture and rural
development, enhanced social services, good governance, and private sector development. The project
supported four of these priorities through the provision of basic infrastructure and social services, the
promotion of decentralized and accountable governance, and by enabling the private sector to develop through
the provision of rural water and sanitation services. The project also directly supported the three central pillars
of the 2004-2006 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) consisting of: (i) improved service delivery; (ii)
enhanced governance and empowerment; and (iii) growth and employment generation. More specifically,
reducing water-borne and sanitation-related diseases, and ensuring environmental sustainability are all
included in the MDGs and were addressed through the project by constructing water supply and sanitation
facilities and changing behavioral practices, such as those related to hand-washing.

The project objective was also in line with other aspects of the CAS. The Bank’s involvement in rural water
supply and sanitation in Ghana facilitated the process of harmonization in the sector, wherein the Bank
worked with the Government and other donors to promote the use of common operational procedures
throughout the country. The Bank, Government, and other Development Partners are stressing the importance
of a Sector-Wide Approach (SWAP) in project implementation.

The project design was consistent with the sector policy which states that the overall objective of the
community water supply and sanitation program is to “improve the public health and economic well-being of
rural and small town communities through provision of adequate, safe and sustainable water for domestic,
commercial and industrial purposes in a planned and coordinated manner, with integrated hygiene education
and sanitation interventions.” The policy further emphasizes the need for community ownership of facilities,
based on a demand-driven approach, and a private sector supply of goods and services, where communities
pay a percentage of the capital costs of systems as well as all of operations and maintenance costs and are
responsible for planning and managing their facilities. The demand driven approach is seen as key to
promoting sustainability of systems. The design of the project was also in line with the roles as envisaged
under the Government’s decentralization policy, even though the role of the Regional Coordinating Councils
(RCCs) was not explicit enough in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Project Implementation
Manual (PIM), which undermined their supervision of the DAs in the implementation of the project. Indeed,
the project helped to facilitate the decentralization process by providing districts with key responsibilities in
implementation, including contracting. A strong emphasis was placed on capacity building to strengthen
districts’ ability to carry out their increased responsibilities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The achievement of the project objective is rated as satisfactory as evidenced by development impact
indicators that have been fully achieved or exceeded.

The project met its targets of providing 550,000 with access to water supply and 50,000 with sanitation
facilities. In total 73 communities in 44 districts in the selected regions benefited from the provision of water
supply and sanitation.


                                                        7
The project experienced an initial shortfall in access targets as a result of predominance of participating towns
with relatively small population sizes. The demand responsive approach to subproject delivery meant that
towns that were ready and willing to meet project requirements for participation got selected by the districts
and therefore the project had no control determining the sizes of towns that would participate. However the
approval of additional financing in the amount of US$25million equivalent allowed completing the 62 towns
systems, for which the initial credits have been committed, plus 11 additional systems that increased the target
of water beneficiaries.

3.3 Efficiency

Procurement under the project followed both the Bank guidelines and the Ghana Public Procurement
guidelines. This involved evaluation/approval of Consultancy and sub-contract tenders by either the District
Tender Review Board (DTRB) or the Regional Tender Review Board (RTRB) and submission to the Bank for
no objection. It is noted that the overall approval process took, on average, between 15 to 40 days. Delays in
approval may due in part to the fact that the RTRBs usually meet on monthly basis, and in part to the dual
approval process between the Bank and local approval committees.

An ex-post economic analysis (see Annex 3), indicated significant differences in figures from those in the
PAD. The PAD considered the per capita costs for 20,000, 25,000 and 30,000 to be between US$30 and
US$32 per capita. The project, however, was implemented in several communities with populations between
2,000 and 5,000, with costs in some cases topping US$100 per capita.

The main direct benefit of the project is increased provision of water to beneficiaries living in the small towns
under the project. Other key benefits included: (i) health benefits from reduction in water-related and fecal-
related diseases; (ii) improved hygiene; (iii) provision of household toilets bringing about enhanced safety,
privacy, and convenience; and (iv) time savings in fetching water. In view of the absence of baseline figures
for health, hygiene, convenience, and time savings in fetching water, the analysis was limited mainly to key
water supply components for which quantifiable benefits could be measured.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory since: (i) the project development objective, its design,
and implementation are relevant to the achievement of the MDG for water supply and sanitation and is
consistent with country priorities as indicated in the GPRS; (ii) key indicators related to the development
objective have met their targets, as well as most of the other outcome and output indicators; and (iii) the
project has achieved a satisfactory level of efficiency in the provision of services.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project followed a demand-driven, participatory approach with principal stakeholders as the small towns
where the majority of the poor in the country live. Small towns’ WSDBs had both men and women
representatives with essential roles throughout the project process. The decision by a community whether or
not to apply to join the project was undertaken by these representatives. Subsequently, the local actors, with
facilitation by the CWSA, decided on the type of system and level of service they wanted based on cost and
other factors. The project had a participatory M&E system, and the community representatives were involved
in monitoring the project and are currently managing the installed systems in their small towns.



                                                        8
The project allocated funds for construction of latrines at public places and to partially subsidize household
latrines to private homes. The cost of a single-family latrine was assessed as US$100 and the subsidy offered
by the STWSSP was US$50 per unit. The subsidy supported the construction of more than 4,200 private
latrines or their equivalent in public spaces. Though the subsidy was targeted at poorer homes, as expected, no
more than 50 percent of the targeted beneficiaries accessed the subsidy and the subsidy was instead accessed
by the relatively richer homes. The reason for allocating funds to cover the construction of latrines in only a
fraction of lower-income households was that even though some of the families preferred improved sanitation,
they could not afford to spend $50 on a latrine.

The project ensured participation of key stakeholders in project planning, implementation and management of
the facilities. It particularly promoted the active involvement of women, the main beneficiaries from an
increased access to water since they are traditionally in charge of fetching water. Therefore women were
involved in all phases of water supply and sanitation and represented at the Water and Sanitation Development
Boards. The project also promoted the role of the informal and formal private sector.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

In the previous Rural Water and Sanitation program, regional structures like the RCCs were virtually excluded
from project implementation as the concentration was on the District Assemblies, the basic unit within GoG’s
decentralization structure for the implementation of projects. The project, however, considered that the RCCs
should have a larger role to play in the monitoring of project implementation, particularly in assuring that
targets set by districts within the region were upheld. The project incorporated the lessons and involved the
regional structures as part of its monitoring arrangements. Additionally, RWSTs provided targeted support to
weaker districts in certain specialized functions such as accounting, technical/ engineering, and contract
supervision.

In line with the Government’s decentralization policy, the role of districts in a decentralized service delivery
approach was considered vital, and their ownership of the planning and implementation process was
considered essential for success. DAs were provided with assistance to assume their new role of managing
contracts and performing accounting and other related tasks associated with provision of water supply and
sanitation. This was key, since they were new to contracting. During the same period, DANIDA assisted in the
establishment of District Works Department at the District Assemblies to house the Water and Sanitation
Team, the key implementation unit within the DAs. Even though there was considerable achievement in the
training of the DAs, there is a need to continue with the training programs in subsequent projects to ensure
greater understanding particularly in regard to fiduciary issues. Subsequent operations should also train the
RCCs in the oversight of DAs in the implementation of subprojects and especially in the operation and
maintenance of the water and sanitation facilities once they are completed and placed in service.

Support was also provided in the form of training and logistical support to encourage participation of small-
scale entrepreneurs. The long-term objective was to ensure that there was a competitive and efficient private
sector available at the district level to provide quality goods, works, and services to communities.
Specifically, support to small and medium enterprises in the sector to improve on their capacity. This included
drilling contractors, drilling consultants and supervisors, sanitation contractors, area mechanics, small town
water system operators and providers of training and community development services.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

                                                       9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: moderate

There were some procurement capacity gaps in the RWSTs and the DWSTs, particularly in the areas of
procurement planning, implementation monitoring, bid evaluation reports preparation, and contract
management that delayed the project. Support provided by technical assistance, however, mitigated its impact
considerably. Delays in the payment of the counterpart funding affected timely completion of subprojects as
payment of contractors were delayed. In addition, the removal of the 5 percent contribution for the last 11
participating communities (introduced as part of the second additional financing) undermined the contribution
from other beneficiary communities under the original financing which were already committed to the
payment of the 5 percent towards the capital cost. The higher-than-estimated per capita cost for some of the
facilities in the small towns – in particular for towns with relatively small population (some as low as 2,500) –
placed a great burden on some of the beneficiary districts and communities which led in some cases to delayed
payments to the contractors. However payment of revenue for the use of the installed water supply systems
has not encountered any problem. CWSA is coordinating the operations of the installed facility with the
District Assemblies particularly in regard to DAs approving cost recovery tariffs. Inadequate M&E posed a
modest risk to the early completion of the project. The role of the RCCs in monitoring was not well-articulated
in some of the regions and this delayed the project. However, the delay was quite mitigated by the presence of
CWSA, which invariably provided M&E support to the DAs and the WSDBs. There was a modest risk in not
attaining the 50,000 target set for the sanitation coverage. Because of high price increases of construction
materials over the period of project implementation, several households that initially showed strong interest in
participating in the project by contributing 50 percent of the cost (in kind and labor) towards household
latrines withdrew from the project. However the target was achieved in the end.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: marginally satisfactory

The project was highly relevant to the country priorities as delineated in the GPRS and in the CAS and
contributed to the achievement of the MDGs. The Bank team worked closely with CWSA on the project
design to make sure that it incorporated the input from analytical studies and lessons learned from previous
operations in order to promote cost effectiveness of the installed water supply systems. In particular, the Bank
team assisted in the design of the technical and financial aspects of the project and gave adequate attention to
economic, fiduciary and safeguards issues. However the project experienced higher per capita investment
costs than anticipated. This was due in part to the significant increase of construction costs by the time the
subprojects were being tendered, which was difficult to predict, but it was also due to the predominance of
participating small towns with fewer population and this might have been anticipated during appraisal.
Whereas the design was based on a small town of above 5,000 people, a number of the small towns with lower
population were provided with facilities similar to those above 5,000, hence increasing the unit costs. The
implementation arrangements were carefully tailored to the GOG’s decentralization process, with the DAs
being given the role of implementing the project while CWSA played their statutory role of a facilitator. In
addition, the Bank team ensured that provision was made for capacity building to DAs and the WSDBs to
enable them implement the project. Main risks were identified by the team and appropriate mitigation
measures proposed.

(b) Quality of Supervision


                                                       10
Rating: Satisfactory

Periodic supervision missions were carried out to provide implementation support for the project. The findings
of these missions are contained in a number of aide memoires and implementation status reports. A mid-term
review was also carried out to provide stake holders with the opportunity to critically examine all aspects of
implementation with a view to improving implementation and, where necessary, effecting changes to the
project. The supervision missions included key government officials, particularly the CWSA of the Ministry
of Water Resources Works and Housing. In addition, mission members travelled to project sites and held
discussions with District Assembly officials, traditional authorities, Water and Sanitation Development
Boards, Consultants, Contractors, and community members. Key assessment areas during the project included:
(i) implementation status of the project components; (ii) progress of disbursement; (iii) the levels of key
performance indicators; (iv) community and district contribution to the project; (v) level of operation and
management of completed systems, (vi) sustainability issues as they relates to establishment and adequate
capacity training of WSDBs, and the DWSTs, and M&E; and (vii) fiduciary and safeguard issues. Compliance
with safeguard issues was in accordance with the principles and procedures in the Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) and Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF).

The supervision was adequate in all respects, as the project team was mostly field based and had specialists
familiar with the project area.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank played an instrumental role in the planning and design of the project, and the creation of the
institutional framework. It also played a role in stakeholder capacity building, particularly the DAs to enable
them play their statutory role as implementing agency, and the WSDBs to improve their management capacity
at the community level. It contributed to M&E, particularly in resourcing the CWSA, in facilitating
implementation of the project, and supported the DWSTs and WSDBs in monitoring the project. Intense
supervision, as evidenced by the several missions by the Bank, helped the Government to address major
implementation issues. One key area of weakness of the implementing agencies that was addressed by the
Bank mission and which significantly contributed to the implementation of the project was knowledge of
environmental and social impact issues. The Bank’s support thus helped to keep the project on track so that it
was able to meet its development objectives.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Government officials from the Community Water and Sanitation Agency (CWSA) and the Ministry of Water
Resources Works and Housing (MWRWH) worked closely with the Bank team on all important aspects of the
project. The mission also met with officials of the RCCs and the various District Assemblies implementing the
project. The RCCs in most of the project regions, however, played relatively limited roles in the
implementation of the project. It was observed that they were not involved in the project planning and design
stages and, moreover, their roles were not explicitly made clear in the project documents. The relatively
limited role of RCCs in project implementation appears not to be limited to water supply, but rather a
reflection of their usual coordinating role assigned to them. The missions were coordinated closely with the
World Bank Unit of the Ministry of Finance, which provided the Ministry with the opportunity to monitor the
progress of the implementation of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
                                                      11
Rating: satisfactory

The implementing agencies participated actively in the project preparation and contributed substantially to the
quality at entry of the operation. The District Assemblies, as the key implementing agencies were responsible
for: (i) preparing and reviewing annual DWSPs; (ii) signing of sub-project agreements with CWSA; (iii)
promoting projects in all communities; (iv) facilitating the establishment and training of WSDBs and
delegating the management of the community installed water and sanitation facilities to these Boards; (v)
financing the operational expenses of the DWST; (vi) making 5 percent contribution to the capital cost of
water facilities; (vii) properly acquiring lands and providing appropriate compensations to property owners
under the safeguards requirements; and (viii) resolving conflict at the community levels. Delays by several
DAs in the fulfillment of their obligation to make their 5 percent contribution to capital cost of subprojects
significantly contributed to some delays in the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
In view of the Government and of the implementing agencies’ performance, the overall Borrower performance
is rated as satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

While the Project’s Development Objective to increase access to water supply and sanitation services to small
towns located in six regions of Ghana was fully achieved, there is concern over the long term sustainability of
the systems. Therefore a number of lessons and recommendations are indicated below that should be taken
into consideration for a follow-up operation that should emphasize on the sustainability of the systems.

    a) High turnover of membership of the WSDBs, mostly due to political interference, meant that members
       who had been trained during project implementation had to be replaced by new people who never had
       the benefit of any training. As political decisions are invariably unpredictable, it would be necessary to
       involve more of the private sector to complement the management of the WSDBs in subsequent
       projects. WSDBs, even though they contributed to the management of the project at the community
       level, in a number of cases resisted the participation of the private sector in the management of the
       installed water supply facility. This may be as a result of inadequate information on management
       strategy for community water supply. Future capacity-building programs for the WSDBs should
       include information on private sector partnership in the management of community water supply
       facilities.

    b) The capacity of DAs in the management of water supply projects and in the operation
       and maintenance of water and sanitation facilities needs to be improved to ensure long
       term sustainability of the systems. To strengthen the capacity of the DAs, there will be
       the need to follow up on the establishment and resourcing of the Water and Sanitation
       Units of the DWDs in the districts for the management of the Water and Sanitation
       Projects. There will also be the need for the review of procedures by DAs in the
       processing of work certificates and disbursement of funds for sub-projects which were
       contributory factors to delay in the execution of sub-project contracts. In addition, there
       will be the need to educate DAs on the importance of adequate revenue for the operation
       and maintenance of the installed systems. This meant the DAs approving cost recovery
       tariffs or supplementing tariffs from their own funds in case tariffs are not sufficient to
       ensure the sustainability of the systems. DAs also good orientation on environmental
       and social safeguards, as capacity of DAs are found to be weak and which has led to
       several land acquisition related conflicts;


                                                       12
c) The low level of investment in sanitation and hygiene education, as well as the strategy
   of providing subsidy to household latrines without prior behavior change awareness
   campaign poses a great challenge to the attainment of the MDGs. Some pilot projects
   based on the Community Led Total Sanitation (CLTS) principle, which focuses on
   behavior change, have been quite successful in a few communities. There will be the
   need to review the pilot project for possible scaling up in subsequent rural sanitation
   projects. The behavior change concept should be extended to hygiene promotion to
   maximize the health benefits of the communities;

d) RCCs should be involved in the preparation stages of projects to improve their
   monitoring of DAs in the implementation of projects and especially in the oversight of
   the operation of the systems. The Upper West and East Regions RCCs however played
   significant roles in project implementation which to a large extent improved project
   management at the district level. Future operations should provide clearer reference to
   RCC supervision roles so that RCCs in beneficiary regions can adequately play their
   roles in project implementation. In addition pre-project workshops which are normally
   organized for DAs should include the RCCs;

e) There is a need for developing a robust Sector Information System to facilitate the
   monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of not only access to water and sanitation, but the
   quality of the services provided and the financial sustainability of the decentralized and
   community-managed systems;

f) There is the need to review the design for small town water systems to give more
   consideration to the category of small towns to ensure lower and uniform unit cost. It
   was realized that the population of a number of the beneficiary communities was less
   than 5,000 inhabitants, which meant that they were medium small towns as defined by
   the CWSA ( i.e. population between 1,200 and 5,000) but benefitted from systems
   intended for larger sized small town (i.e. population of over 5,000). This contributed to
   higher unit costs.




                                           13
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

CWSA raised the issue of inadequate integration of coordinating roles of the RCC into project implementation
which could have improved management of the project. The Bank agrees with this position and it will be a key
area of consideration in subsequent projects. CWSA was also of the view that the strategy for sanitation
delivery in small towns was not well developed, resulting in few of the poor in the community benefitting
from the provision. CWSA also expressed concern with the absence of post project implementation activities
to support operation and maintenance and sustainability of the installed systems. Consultation will be made
with District Assemblies to ensure adequate funding either through tariffs or from the District Assembly
Common Fund (or other DA Funds) to support the operation and maintenance of the installed systems.

(b) Co financiers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

While commending the project overall, there is a shared concern among DPs supporting the water sector with
regard to CWSA’s occasional involvement in sub-project implementation on behalf of DAs, in lieu of sticking
to its statutory role of facilitation. There is also strong support by all DPs to move from a project approach to
a Sector Wide Approach (SWAP) and for the channeling of funds in line with the decentralization
mechanisms rather than through CWSA.




                                                       14
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

Table 1. Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
                                        Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Estimate
              Components                                                              Percentage of Appraisal
                                           (US$ million)           (US$ million)
Community Subprojects                          21.6                    42.50                  196.7
Sector Support                                  3.1                     6.30                  203.2
Program Management                              1.3                     2.90                  223.1

                      Total Baseline Cost     26.0                       51.70                    198.8
Physical Contingencies                          1.98
                                                                          0.00                     0.00
Price Contingencies
                                               2.29                       0.00                    0.00
                      Total Project Costs     30.27                      51.70                    170.8
Front-end fee PPF                              0.00                       0.00                     .00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00                       0.00                     .00
             Total Financing Required          0.00                       0.00                     .00


Table 2. Financing
                                                                Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                              Type of                                             Percentage of
              Source of Funds                                   Estimate           Estimate
                                            Cofinancing                                            Appraisal
                                                              (US$ million)      (US$ million\)
Borrower                                                          3.17                4.4            138,8
Germany: German Technical Assistance
                                                                  0.42               0.42             100
Corporation (GTZ)
International Development
                                                                 26.00               51.70           198.8
Association (IDA)




                                                       15
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

    Project outputs               Output indicator                Status at project         Level of achievement
                                                                     completion
Component 1 :Community Sub-project
Increased access to water     Provide 550,000 people          561,754 people in 73                102.1%
supply in small towns in      with water supply               small towns provided with
six regions                   facilities                      water supply systems

Increased access to           Provide 50,000 people           50,424 people provided
sanitation services in        with sanitation facilities      with sanitation facilities          100.8%
small towns in six regions.                                   by means of 4,202
                                                              household latrines and 288
                                                              institutional latrines
Component 2: Sector Support
Participating small towns     No. of Water Boards fully       73 Water Boards formed,              100%
effectively using their       trained through project         trained and functioning
improved water and            and functioning
sanitation systems and
managing them in a
sustainable manner.

Capacity of participating     No.of participating             44 districts fully trained.
districts, the private        districts with active
sector, regional              district W&S programs,
government monitoring         fully trained in small
entities, and the MWRWH       towns service delivery
Directorate for Water
effectively developed to      No. of private service          58 private service
fulfill their sector roles    providers (TA,                  providers involved in
                              contractors, artisans,          operations
                              suppliers, etc.) trained
                              and/or operational at
                              district/town levels

                              No. of regional governments     6 regional governments
                              adequately monitoring           partially monitoring the
                              district RWSS programs.         programs

                              Directorate of Water fully
                              staffed and personnel trained   Directorate of Water at
                              in RWSS policy issues and       MWRWH fully staffed
                              M&E;                            and active in policy issues
                                                              and monitoring
Project Management            .
Efficient CWSA                Amount of funds                 Approximately
facilitation of national      disbursed by CWSA               US$46million out of
RWSS program and              relative to planned             US$51 million
management of STWSSP          disbursements                   (undisbursed amount were
                                                              project savings as a result
                              Sector problem–solving          of local currency
                              facilitated and lessons         devaluation against the
                              shared through                  US$ and US$ against the
                              stakeholder discussions         SDR)
                              coordinated by CWSA
                                                              CWSA facilitation
                                                              through site meetings


                                                                   16
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction

The Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (STWSSP) was undertaken from 2004 to 2010. The
original project was a US$26 million project to provide water supply to 625,000 people in small towns and
sanitation services to 50,000 people. The initial population included a number of communities rolled over
from the Community Water and Sanitation Project Phase II (CWSP-II), the precursor to the STWSSP. An
additional amount of US$ 10 million was obtained in 2006 when it was realized that the population of selected
communities was much lower than originally expected. Project interventions usually targeted small towns
with larger populations. The project target was revised down to 500,000. Implementing the project in
communities with lower population thresholds led to higher per capita costs for the systems to be provided. In
addition, in 2008, due to the high price of crude oil on the world market, there was an increase in the cost of
construction materials. This required additional financing to meet the project target for water. An additional
population of 50,000 people was targeted to increase the coverage to 550,000 with the second additional
financing of US$15 million. At the end of the project, however, not all of the second additional financing was
utilized. The projected disbursed US$46 million instead of the expected US$51 million. This was attributed
to the sudden depreciation of the cedi in the later stages of the project.

Table 3. Project Financing
           Project                  Project           Effective     Project    Amount       Amount
                                    Number              Date                               Disbursed
 Original Financing                39710 GH             2004          US$ 26 million     US$ 24.1 million
 1st Additional Financing          39711 GH             2007          US$ 10 million     US$ 11.2 million
 2nd Additional Financing          45660 GH             2009          US$ 15 million     US$ 10.7 million
                         Total                                        US$ 51 million      US$ 46 million

Funds Disbursed
The funds for the three credits used under the project were disbursed in the different categories as follows:

Table 4. Disbursement of First Credit (39710 GH) (US$ million)
                                                           Program
           Sub Projects      T/Consult        Goods       Management            Total
   2005              -           149.19         -                 286.01       435.21
   2006        3,980.75          587.40   266.04                     -        4,834.19
   2007        5,656.51          243.08   147.79                     -        6,047.38
   2008        5,581.60          690.78       2.04                568.60      6,843.02
   2009         970.04              -           -                    -         970.04
   2010        4,548.99           41.53         -                 404.75      4,995.27
                                                                           24,125.11




                                                           17
Table 5 Disbursement of Second Credit (39711 GH) (US$ million)
                                                          Program
          Sub-Projects      T/Consult      Goods         Management          Total
  2005                  -              -        -                      -            -
  2006                  -              -        -                      -            -
  2007                  -              -        -                      -            -
  2008                  -              -        -                      -            -
  2009         9,800.19        651.24           -                278.55    10,729.98
  2010          478.31                 -        -                      -      478.31
                                                                           11,208.29

Table 6 Disbursement of Third Credit (45660 GH) (US$ million)
                                                         Program
          Sub-Projects      T/Consult      Goods        Management          Total
 2005               -              -        -                      -                    -
 2006               -              -        -                      -                    -
 2007               -              -        -                      -                    -
 2008               -              -        -                      -                    -
 2009        1,866.64              -        -                      -         1,866.64
 2010        7,710.14         760.85        -                   338.98       8,809.97
                                                                            10,676.61

Per Capita Costs

The per capita costs obtained during project implementation were very different from that used in preparation
of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). The following cost function was derived using the costs that
pertained during project implementation

                                                    I = 492 x Pop 0.8

where I is investment and Pop is population of the community. The PAD, however, determined per capita
costs using a cost function of

                                                    I = 233 x Pop 0.8

The comparative costs from the two cost functions give the per capita costs for various populations in Table 2
below.

Table 7. Per Capita Costs (US$)
      Population          PAD per capita costs          Project per capita costs
                            (I = 233 x Pop 0.8 )          (I = 492 x Pop 0.8 )
          5,000                     43                            90
         10,000                     37                            78
         15,000                     34                            72




                                                           18
In addition, the PAD considers the per capita costs for 20,000, 25,000 and 30,000 people, which are between
US$30 and US$32 per capita. The project was implemented in several communities with populations between
2,000 and 5,000 people, however, with costs in some cases of over US$100 per capita.

Sanitation

The sanitation component of the project was aimed at providing latrines in private homes to serve a population
of around 50,000 people. Institutional latrines were also provided to serve mostly schools and a few clinics.
Each household was expected to contribute 50 percent of the cost of a latrine and the communities/DAs were
to contribute 10 percent the cost of institutional latrines.

Project Costs and Benefits

The project costs have been identified as the investments made for the provision of water supply and
sanitation services, as well as technical assistance and goods procured under the project. These project costs
have been identified as the main economic costs of the project.

The main direct benefit of the project is increased provision of water to beneficiaries living in the designated
beneficiary small towns. Other key benefits include:
    a) Health benefits from reduction in water-related and fecal-related diseases
    b) Improved hygiene
    c) Provision of household toilets bringing about enhanced safety, privacy and convenience
    d) Time saving in fetching water
The project did not have a baseline to enable a clear cut analysis of the health, hygiene, convenience and time
savings in fetching water. The analysis is therefore limited mainly to key water supply components for which
quantifiable benefits can be measured.

Households with house connections have an extra benefit of having the water available directly in their yards.

Population growth rates of 2.5 percent have been used to determine the population growth rate. The average
cost of water assumed in the analysis is 3 pesewas per bucket. The consumer surplus represents the extra
benefit for beneficiaries with water closer in relatively closer proximity, especially for those with household
connections.

The cost-benefit analysis considers the following components that were used to determine the cost benefit
analysis in the PAD as well. These are:
        a) Incremental sales
        b) Consumer surplus
        c) Investment costs
        d) Incremental operating costs

Water Demand and Prices

The project began using the demand driven policy which required beneficiary communities to contribute 5
percent of the capital cost with corresponding District Assemblies also contributing 5 percent. Due to a
change in Government policy, the 11 additional communities to benefit from the project under the second

                                                      19
additional financing did not contribute to the capital cost. The cost of a bucket of water at a standpipe is sold
at between 2.5 and 5 pesewas. In most communities, two buckets of water are sold for 5 pesewas, making the
cost of each 18 litre bucket at 2.5 pesewas. The standard bucket (No. 34 bucket) is 18 litres and it is estimated
that 50 buckets of water make 1m3. The estimate of 50 buckets assumes some wastage in washing buckets
before fetching water. Households with house connections pay 25 percent more for water, for the enhanced
service. Beneficiaries with house connections are expected to use up to 60 liters per capita per day (lcd) as
compared to 20 lcd for those fetching from standpipes. All designs took into consideration commercial
demand of around 10 percent and losses of around 10 percent minimum. The average use per capita for the
towns is expected therefore to be about 25 lcd. The price charged per bucket of water is in line with the tariff
setting guidelines and is expected to cover all the O&M costs for each water supply system.

Population growth for the small towns has been estimated at an average of 2.5 percent. Water demand is
expected to grow at a rate of about 10 percent higher than the population growth rate due to the increased
availability of water in the towns.

Cost of Water

The cost of an 18 litre bucket of water at the time of project preparation was 100 old Ghana Cedis. After the
redenomination of the currency, the 100 old Ghana Cedis became equivalent to 1 pesewa (100 pesewas = 1
new Cedi). The new currency’s exchange rate at the time was 1 US$ = 0.915 Cedis. The cost per m3 of water
was therefore estimated at US$0.60 per m3. At the time of project closure, the cost of a bucket of water
averages 3 pesewas. Consumers with household connections account for up to 20 percent of the beneficiary
population and pay 25 percent more for water use. An average cost per bucket of 3 pesewas is assumed for
the analysis. The exchange rate of the Cedi to the dollar at the close of the project is 1 US$ = 1.45 Cedis.
This makes the cost of water US$1.03 per m3. The cost of water sold is the source of revenue for the
operation and maintenance of the water supply systems. The tariff is structured in a manner to ensure there is
a component set aside in a replacement fund as well as all recurrent costs.

Operation, Maintenance and Cost Recovery

Based on the CWSA O&M guidelines, and on experience from the first set of systems completed under the
STWSSP, annual O&M costs are between 5 and 7 percent of the construction cost (investment) of the
designed water systems. It is estimated that this will increase to between 7 and 10 percent of the investment
cost over the design life of a typical system. Conservatively estimated, it is assumed that annual O&M cost is
10 percent of construction cost. Depreciation has been computed for 20 years at 12 percent interest and this
gives an annual payment of 13.39 percent of cost of asset. Sinking fund is also computed for 20 years at 2
percent real interest and this gives an annual payment of 4.12 percent of asset.

Table 8. Operation, Maintenance, and Capital Cost (US$)
 Population        Investment         O&M       Depreciation     Sinking Fund
  in town     Project Per capita per year          per year        per year
    2,500     257,227      102.89     25,723        34,443          10,598
    3,500     336,682      96.19      33,668        45,082          13,871
    5,000     447,859      89.57      44,786        59,968          18,452
    7,500     619,461      82.59      61,946        82,946          25,522
   10,000     779,767      77.98      77,977       104,411          32,126
   15,000    1,078,545     71.90     107,854       144,417          44,436

The internal rate of return (IRR) obtained is 24.45 percent as against 20.5 percent. This can be attributed to
the increased cost per m3 of water over the period of project implementation.

                                                       20
Table 9. Investment under Project and Projections on Population and Water Demand
 Project year              1        2        3        4         5          6          7       8       9       10      11      12     13      14      15      16      17      18       19       20

 Calendar year            2005     2006     2007     2008     2009       2010       2011     2012    2013    2014    2015    2016    2017    2018    2019    2020    2021    2022    2023     2024
 Investment cost
 (US$’000)
 Sub-Projects                  -   3,981    5,657    5,582    12,637     12,737
 T/Consult                 149      587      243      691       651         802
 Goods                         -    266      148          2          -          -
 Program Management        286          -        -    569       279         744
 Total                     435     4,834    6,047    6,843    13,567     14,284     46,010
 Population and water
 Population (‘000)         550      564      578      592       607        622         638    654     670     687     704     722     740     758     777     797     816     837      858      879
 Water supply (‘000 m3)
 Without project          2,208    2,230    2,253    2,275     2,298      2,321      2,344   2,368   2,391   2,415   2,439   2,464   2,488   2,513   2,538   2,564   2,589   2,615    2,641    2,668
 With project             2,208    2,230    2,855    4,785     6,263      7,340      7,523   7,711   7,904   8,102   8,304   8,512   8,725   8,943   9,166   9,395   9,630   9,871   10,118   10,371
 Increment in Water Use
                               0        0    602     2,509     3,965      5,019      5,179   5,344   5,513   5,686   5,865   6,048   6,236   6,429   6,628   6,832   7,041   7,256    7,476    7,703
Table 10. Cost Benefit Analysis
 Project year                     1          2          3        4        5        6        7        8        9       10       11       12       13       14       15       16       17       18       19       20

 Calendar year                   2005       2006       2007    2008     2009     2010     2011     2012     2013     2014     2015     2016     2017     2018     2019     2020     2021     2022     2023     2024

 COST                                                                                              Total

 Total Investment Cost            435        4,834     6,047   6,843    13,567   14,284            46,010
 Operation and Maintenance

 O&M                                  0          398    566      558     1,264    1,274    1,528    1,544    1,559    1,575    1,591    1,606    1,623    1,639    1,655    1,672    1,688    1,705    1,722    1,740

 O&M+SF                               0          562    799      788     1,784    1,799    2,158    2,180    2,202    2,224    2,246    2,268    2,291    2,314    2,337    2,360    2,384    2,408    2,432    2,456



           Total cost (O&M)       435        5,232     6,613   7,401    14,830   15,557    1,528    1,544    1,559    1,575    1,591    1,606    1,623    1,639    1,655    1,672    1,688    1,705    1,722    1,740

       Total cost (O&M+SF)        435        5,396     6,846   7,631    15,351   16,082    2,158    2,180    2,202    2,224    2,246    2,268    2,291    2,314    2,337    2,360    2,384    2,408    2,432    2,456



 BENEFITS

 Incremental water sale               0            0    620     2585     4084     5169     5334     5504     5678     5857     6041     6230     6423     6622     6827     7037     7252     7473     7701     7934

 Consumer surplus                     0            0    713    2,972     4,696    5,945    6,135    6,330    6,530    6,736    6,947    7,164    7,387    7,616    7,851    8,092    8,340    8,594    8,856    9,124
                Total benefits        0            0   1,334   5,557     8,780   11,114   11,469   11,834   12,208   12,593   12,988   13,393   13,810   14,238   14,677   15,129   15,592   16,068   16,556   17,058


                                                           -
 B - C (O&M)                     -435        -5,232    5,279   -1,844   -6,050   -4,443    9,940   10,290   10,649   11,018   11,397   11,787   12,188   12,599   13,022   13,457   13,904   14,363   14,834   15,319
                                                           -
 B - C (O&M+SF)                  -435        -5,396    5,512   -2,074   -6,571   -4,968    9,311    9,654   10,006   10,369   10,742   11,125   11,519   11,924   12,340   12,768   13,208   13,660   14,125   14,602



 IRR (O&M)                                 26.50%

 IRR (O&M+SF)                              24.45%



 PV net B (O&M) 12%                       27,234.61

 PV net B (O&M+SF) 12%                    23,625.65




                                                                                                                     22
Table 11. Financial Analysis
 Project year               1             2            3       4        5        6       7        8       9       10     11      12       13      14      15      16      17      18      19       20

 Calendar year             2005         2006          2007    2008    2009     2010     2011    2012     2013    2014    2015    2016    2017    2018    2019    2020    2021    2022    2023     2024

 Cost

 Investment                 435            4,834      6,047   6,843   13,567   14,284

 O&M+SF                           -           562      799     788     1,784    1,799   2,158    2,180   2,202   2,224   2,246   2,268   2,291   2,314   2,337   2,360   2,384   2,408    2,432    2,456

              Total cost    435            5,396      6,846   7,631   15,351   16,082   2,158    2,180   2,202   2,224   2,246   2,268   2,291   2,314   2,337   2,360   2,384   2,408    2,432    2,456
 Finance                                                                                        Total
 Communities and
 DAs                        575               575     1,150   1150     1150                      4,600

 Government of Ghana        200               503      610     610      610      610             3,143

 World Bank                 435            4,834      6,047   6,843   13,567   14,284           46,010

          Total finance    1,210           5,912      7,807   8,603   15,327   14,894           53,753
 Water
 Without project (‘000
 m3)                       2,208           2,230      2,253   2,275    2,298    2,321   2,344    2,368   2,391   2,415   2,439   2,464   2,488   2,513   2,538   2,564   2,589   2,615    2,641    2,668

 With project (‘000)       2,208           2,230      2,855   4,785    6,263    7,340   7,523    7,711   7,904   8,102   8,304   8,512   8,725   8,943   9,166   9,395   9,630   9,871   10,118   10,371

 Increment (‘000 m3)            0                 0    602    2,509    3,965    5,019   5,179    5,344   5,513   5,686   5,865   6,048   6,236   6,429   6,628   6,832   7,041   7,256    7,476    7,703
 Incremental water
 sales                          0                 -    620    2,585    4,084    5,169   5,334    5,504   5,678   5,857   6,041   6,230   6,423   6,622   6,827   7,037   7,252   7,473    7,701    7,934
 IDA loan payment
 39710                                                                                                           1,161   1,161   1,161   1,161   1,161   1,161   1,161   1,161   1,161    1,161    1,161
 IDA loan payment
 39711                                                                                                                                    446     446     446     446     446     446      446      446
 IDA loan payment
 45660                                                                                                                                                    670     670     670     670      670      670
 IDA loan payment
 total                                                                                                           1,161   1,161   1,161   1,607   1,607   2,277   2,277   2,277   2,277    2,277    2,277

 Net financial flow         775               516     1,582   3,557    4,059    3,981   3,176    3,324   3,477   3,633   3,795   3,961   4,132   4,308   4,490   4,676   4,868   5,066    5,269    5,478



 PV of outlays 12%                    47,590.86

 PV of inflow 12%                     68,266.87




                                                                                                                   23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Table 12. Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                 Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
                                                                   Team Leader
Paul Kriss                Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist AFTU2
                                                                   Phase 1
Arthur Majoribanks                                                 Team Leader
                          Water & Sanitation Specialist      AFTU2
Swatson                                                            Phase 2
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti    Procurement Specialist             AFTPC
Ernestina Attafuah        Senior Program Assistant           AFTUW
Mbuba Mbungu              Sr. Procurement Specialist         AFTFM
Wendy E. Wakeman          Sr. Community Dev Specialist       MNSSO
Lydia Sam                 Procurement Assistant              AFC10
                          Sr Financial Management
Frederick Yankey                                             AFTFM
                          Specialist
                          Sr Financial Management
Ayman Abu-Haija                                              LOAG2
                          Specialist
                          Operations Analyst,
Kristine Schwebach                                           AFTS1
                          Environment
Yoav Kislev               Consultant, Economic Analysis
                          Lead Water and Sanitation
Richard Verspyck                                             AFTUW Quality Team
                          Specialist
                          Lead Water and Sanitation
Alexander A. McPhail                                         AFTUW Quality Team
                          Specialist
Christophe Prevost        Sr Water & Sanitation Specialist   ETWSA Quality Team
Eustache Ouayoro          Sr. Sanitary Engineer              AFTU2 Quality Team
Robert J. Roche           Lead Sanitary Engineer             ETWSA Peer Reviewer
Jennifer J. Sara          Lead Infrastructure Specialist     LCSSD Peer Reviewer
Supervision/ICR
Arthur Majoribanks
                          Water & Sanitation Specialist      AFTU2 TTL No.1
Swatson
Mathewos Woldu            Sr. Economist                      AFTUW TTL No.2
                          Lead Water and Sanitation
Ventura Bengoechea                                           AFTUW TTL No.3
                          Specialist
Baba Imoru Abdulai        Procurement Specialist             AFTPC
Adu-Gyamfi Abunyewa       Procurement Specialist             AFTPC
Beatrix Allah-Mensah      Social Development Specialist      AFTCS
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti    Procurement Specialist             AFTPC
Bayo Awosemusi            Lead Procurement Specialist        AFTPC
Samuel Bruce-Smith        Consultant                         AFTFM
Robert Wallace DeGraft-
                          Financial Management Specialist    AFTFM
Hanson


                                         25
Edward Felix Dwumfour    Sr Environmental Specialist          AFTEN
Maya El-Azzazi           Program Assistant                    MNSSD
Tracy Hart               Sr Environmental Specialist           ENV
Hassan Madu Kida         Sr Sanitary Engineer                 AFTUW
Anthony Mensa-Bonsu      Consultant                           AFTPC
                         Sr Natural Resources Mgmt.
Nyaneba E. Nkrumah                                            AFTEN
                         Specialist
Emmanuel Nkrumah         Water & Sanitation Specialist        AFTUW
Lydia Sam                Procurement Assistant                AFCW1
Emmanuel Nkrumah         Water and Sanitation Specialist      AFTUW
Armele Vilceus           Senior Executive Assistant           LCC3C
Wendy E. Wakeman         Lead Social Development Specialist   MNSSO
Geraldine Agnes Wilson   Team Assistant                       AFCW1
Frederick Yankey         Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM




                                        26
Table 13. Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    US$ thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                      36                       149.62
  FY05                                       8                        29.08
                          Total:            44                       178.70
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                    18                          76.13
  FY06                                    34                          44.53
  FY07                                    32                          54.28
  FY08                                    40                         144.03
  FY09                                    28                         116.18
  FY10                                    25                          55.23
  FY11                                     5                           9.36
                          Total:         131                         318.97




                                       27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                   29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Background

The Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project was to continue with the
decentralized approach adopted in Ghana for the CWSP2 in the planning, implementation
and management of safe water supply and improved sanitation facilities/services. The
goal is to support the Government of Ghana to reach the Millennium Development Goals
in water and sanitation by increasing access to water supplies which will, in turn,
contribute to achieving its target of 76 percent and 56 percent of the rural population for
water and sanitation, respectively, by the year 2015. The project undertaken in the second
phase of the Second Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP II/II) became
effective on November 17, 2004. The six beneficiary regions were: Ashanti, Brong
Ahafo, Central, Western, Upper West and Upper East Regions. In total, 73 communities
in 44 districts in these regions benefited from the provision of water supply and sanitation
facilities, which raised the national rural water supply coverage by 6.5 percent and
adequate sanitation by 0.35 percent.

 The project design empowered the District Assemblies (DAs) to be at the forefront of
small town water supply and sanitation delivery. The methodologies and processes
outlined under the project were well understood and accepted by stakeholders. Other
rural water supply projects financed by DANIDA, ADB and AFD have followed similar
design.

Due to effective facilitation by CWSA and commitment by the DAs to increase
communities’ access to sustainable safe water supply and improved sanitation services,
561,754 people (instead of the original target of 500,000 (Annex1)), have been served
with potable water and 50,484 and 28,800 people in households and institutions,
respectively, have been provided with latrines.

The funding was received in three tranches to finance three components of the project:
Community Subprojects, Sector Strengthening, and Project Management, over the course
of four years. The original credit amount was for US$26 million. An additional financing
of US$10 million was secured by the Government in August 2007 to enable the project to
fully meet the original development objective due to unanticipated cost overrun. A
second additional financing of US$15 million was secured and became effective on
October 2, 2009, to scale-up access to 50,000 people by providing 11 additional water
supply systems. The project closing date was extended from April 30, 2009 to April 30,
2010, to ensure the completion of the additional facilities.

1.0    INTRODUCTION

1.1    Project Objectives

The Project Development Objective is to increase access to water supply and sanitation
services in six regions of the country over the next four years, providing 500,000 people


                                            30
with water supply facilities, and 50,000 people with sanitation facilities. An additional
50,000 people gained access to water supply, increasing the national coverage of water
supply and adequate sanitation by 6.5 percent and 0.35 percent, respectively, in an effort
to achieve the water and sanitation MDGs.

The project continued to assist the Government of Ghana in: (a) implementing demand-
responsive and sustainable water and sanitation services in small towns; (b) strengthening
the capacity of communities to manage such services; (c) strengthening district-level
capacity to plan and deliver community water and sanitation services, and provide
support to communities; (d) building the capacity of private sector and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) to deliver goods and services; and (d) strengthening CWSA’s
capacity to effectively facilitate implementation of the national-level community water
and sanitation program.

1.2    Project Description

The STWSSP had three focal areas:

           a) Investments: Test and refine a decentralized implementation strategy as
              well as increasing coverage.
           b) Capacity building: Build capacities of DAs, communities, NGOs and the
              private sector in six regions and also refine management structures for
              sustainability.
           c) Policy: Support CWSA through management support (management fee).
              Discuss and consult on decentralized approach and promotion of higher
              cost recovery.

1.3    Project Components and Coverage

The project had three main components: (i) Community Subproject; (ii) Sector
Strengthening; and (iii) Program Management.

The Community Subprojects component provided grants to communities and institutions
through their DAs for the construction of water and sanitation facilities and to finance
technical assistance and community development activities to strengthen community
capacity to plan, implement, operate and maintain water and sanitation facilities in an
effective and sustainable manner.

The Sector Strengthening component was used to support and build capacities of: (i)
local providers of goods and services (private sector and NGOs); (ii) DAs and their
District Water and Sanitation Teams, through the sector strengthening component in the
provision of technical support, equipment and training. This included, among other
things, office furniture, office equipment, and vehicles; and (c) CWSA at both Head
Office and six regional levels including vehicles.

The component also provided support in participatory program reviews by all
stakeholders, training on environmental and social safeguards, and mass media


                                           31
campaigns for disseminating hygiene education, including promotion of a global hand
washing initiative.

The third component, Program Management, included CWSA remuneration on a fee-for-
service basis for the incremental costs of operation and providing technical assistance to
the DAs.

Table 14. National Water Supply and Sanitation Coverage

 Region            % with access to      % with access to      % with access to      % with access to
                     water-related       safe water, 2004*       water related       safe water, 2009*
                   sanitation, 2006*                           sanitation, 2007*
 Ashanti                  8.45                  49.80                 7.59                   72.14
 Brong Ahafo              5.77                  48.60                 5.63                   53.61
 Central                  3.77                  39.50                 4.33                   45.10

 Western                  2.70                  42.60                 1.10                   44.20

 Upper East               3.55                  68.90                 2.67                   59.19
 Upper West               1.12                  85.70                 3.94                   76.34
* Information from CWSA National Coverage figures

2.0    PROJECT OUTPUTS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

2.1    Key Performance Indicators at the Beginning of Project

The second column of Annex 1 provides the summary list of the key performance
indicators set at the beginning of project.

2.2    Achievements of Project Performance Indicators

The third column of Annex 1 shows project performance achievements. Targets were
exceeded. For instance over 550,000 persons gained access to sustainable safe water
supply instead of the initial target of 500,000 persons.


3.0    IMPACT EVALUATION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF GHANA, CWSA,
       COMMUNITIES, NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (NGOs)
       AND PRIVATE SECTOR

3.1    General Observation on the Project

The CWSP2 was the first project to implement the Ghana National Community Water
and Sanitation Program (NCWSP) and the CWSA Act, Act 564 of 1998, giving the DAs
pivotal roles in the planning, implementation and management of sustainable safe water
supply and improved sanitation facilities and services. The STWSSP advanced the
procedures and processes of decentralization by building local level capacity to
implement the project, facilitated by CWSA.


                                           32
Under the project, resources were channeled to DAs based on their expressed demand to
provide 73 small towns water supply systems, 4,202 household latrines, and 288
institutional latrines to their communities. As a result, DAs and communities developed
capacity for the provision of other communal infrastructure.

The project also created jobs through the private sector provision of goods and services.

3.2    Government, CWSA, and Communities Contributions

The Government of Ghana provided multi-disciplinary staff that facilitated the project at
all levels – national, regional, and district. Personnel salaries, wages and administrative
cost associated with the staff were borne by the Government of Ghana. At the local level,
staff of the DAs provided invaluable services of project coordination, planning,
implementation and management. The DAs’ role included: (i) preparing and reviewing
annual DWSPs; (ii) signing sub-project agreements with CWSA, (iii) promoting projects
in all communities; (vi) ensuring the formation and training of gender-based WSDBs; (v)
financing the operational expenses of the DWST; (vi) making 5 percent contribution to
the capital cost of water facilities; (vii) properly acquiring lands and providing
appropriate compensation to property owners under the safeguards requirements; and
(viii) resolving conflict at the community levels.

The various participating communities contributed cash equivalent to 5 percent of the
capital cost for water, and gave much of their time by participating in meetings and
discussions during the planning and implementation of community sub-projects. For
sanitation, individual households contributed 50 percent of the cost of latrines while
institutions like schools and health centers contributed 10 percent.

3.3    Popularity of the Project Activities at Community Level

The STWSSP has been popular among the participating communities judging from the
high demand from communities for project support. The WSDBs and the communities
were active at all stages of the project planning, implementation, and management. By
linking some communities to banks, the culture of savings has been inculcated into some,
which is a necessary pre-requisite for poverty reduction.

However, the project suffered some setbacks during implementation: (i) delay in the
effectiveness of the second additional credit for the implementation of the additional 11
water supply systems, which was partly due to change of governance at all levels in 2009;
and (ii) delay in mobilization of respective District Assembly and Community 5 percent
capital cost contributions.

4.0    PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS AND CHALLENGES

The following were the achievements and challenges of the project.




                                            33
4.1     National

The development of the Project Operational Manual (POM) by the Government of Ghana
provided detailed processes and procedure that guided project management at all levels.
In addition, CWSA developed such guidance documents as: (i) Small Towns Water and
Sanitation Policy; (ii) Technical Design Guidelines; (iii) Operation and Maintenance
Guidelines; (iv) Bidding Documents including standard specifications and standard
drawings that were useful for program implementation and management at the DA level.
Hygiene and sanitation were given much focus through multi-media information,
education, and communication (IEC) campaigns, including the global hand washing
initiative during which the hygiene practice of washing hands with soap was emphasized,
especially for nursing mothers, caregivers, school children, and food vendors.

4.2     Regional and District

Table 15. Project Achievements and Challenges
 Name             Achievements and Challenges
                  Achievements
                  • Facilitated project in Ashanti, Brong Ahafo, Central, Upper East, Upper
                    West and Western Regions, providing 561,754 persons with access to safe
 CWSA               water, and 50,484 household latrines, and 2,880 institutional latrines
                  • Played role in fine-tuning of TORs, RFPs and contracts for Technical
 REGIONAL
 WATER AND
                    Assistants and Contractors
 SANITATION       • Facilitated in the procurement of TAs and Contractors
 TEAMS            • Training of DAs, Latrine Artisans, and Private Operators
                  • Forged close collaboration among all sector stakeholders, particularly with
                    RCCs
                  • Enabled over-subscription for the projects by DA/Communities due to
                    effective project promotion

                    Challenges
                    • Some DAs did not have adequate capacity to manage contracts, requiring
                      support from RWST via coaching and frequent visits
 CWSA               • Documentation of financial reports from DAs on disbursements was not
                      delivered in timely manner
 REGIONAL
                    • Poor performance of some private sector operators; especially some
 WATER AND
 SANITATION           Contractors
 TEAMS              • In some regions, limited resources prevented some RCCs from playing
                      their co-ordinating and monitoring role in support of project
                      implementation and management
                    • There was no budget for post project monitoring or follow up
                    • Some key district officials, such as District Finance Officers, Planning
                      Officers etc., could not allocate sufficient time to the project because of
                      other-project responsibilities
                    • Delay in completion of some of the facilities due to late mobilization of 10
                      percent district and community contribution to capital cost

                    Achievements
                    • There is a successfully integrated sustainable safe water supply and
                      improved sanitation services, including effective hand washing practices
                      in the beneficiary communities

                                              34
 Name              Achievements and Challenges
                     in the beneficiary communities
                   • Resources from the project were used to enhance capacities of district
                     officials including DWSTs. Consequently requisite skills and capacities
 DISTRICT            in safe water planning and management have been built among district
 ASSEMBLIES
                     staff.
                   • Beneficiary districts are able to prepare their DWSPs for integrated safe
                     water supply and environmental sanitation and also their annual work
                     plans and budgets
                   • All participating communities own and manage the services provided
                   • Ensured formation of gender balanced, active WATSANS/WSDBs
                   • Amicable resolution of all conflicts on safe water supply and sanitation
                     delivery in the district.
                   • Capacity building for DA staff, especially the DWST, DPCU, and the
                     Finance Officers and community members were achieved. Office
                     furniture and equipment were provided to enhance their capacity.
                   Challenges
 DISTRICT          • Irregular release of the DACF, which is the primary source of funds for
 ASSEMBLIES          development activities; this adversely affected the DAs’ ability to pay
                     their 5 percent contribution as spelled out in the Project Operational
                     Manual
                   • Delay in submission of Statement of Expenditures by districts to CWSA
                     due to lack of the requisite staff and incentive to motivate the few that
                     were available
                   • High attrition rate of Water and Sanitation Teams (WATSANs), trained
                     latrine artisans, and some DA key staff
                   • Reluctance of people to serve on WSDBs due to perhaps lack of
                     motivation.


4.3     Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and Private Sector
        Achievements and challenges of NGOs and the Private Sector run through all six
        regions.

        Achievements
           Capacities of the private sector and NGOs were enhanced.
           The project created jobs for them.

        Challenges
          Inadequate equipment holding;
          Limited managerial skills; and
          Low capital base

5.0     IMPACT EVALUATION OF THE BANK

5.1     Project Design
        The project design was satisfactory. However, the coordinating roles of the RCC
        would have been more effective if they had been well-integrated into project
        implementation, management, and supported. In addition, the strategy for
        sanitation delivery in small towns was not well developed. Also there was no

                                            35
         budget for post-project implementation activities. Future projects have to address
         these issues in order to accelerate the delivery of sustainable safe water and
         improved sanitation services for rural communities and small towns.

5.2      Quality design and implementation support mission
         The Task Team Managers and teams worked with CWSA as partners in
         development. Issues and challenges were proactively addressed at all times of
         project implementation. The supervision missions provided useful technical
         assistance to CWSA and DAs. Experiences were shared and problems solved
         during such visits. The aide memoires were useful tools of communication.

5.3      Government, CWSA and Bank Relationship
         It was very satisfactory as there was reciprocal respect for each party.

6.0      LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS

      a) Participation of women in the project has been very good, and women now play a
         bigger role in decision- making in the water and sanitation sector and are better
         empowered to facilitate community action. here is the need for increased
         sensitization of men to better understand the roles of men and women in planning
         for and implementing strategies for acquiring safe water and improved sanitation
         facilities;

      b) Water and Sanitation Development Boards (WSDB) must be informed at the
         initial stages of project information that the water supply system to be provided is
         earmarked for Private Operator management of O&M according to the CWSA
         Small Towns policy guideline. This information must be delivered throughout
         their training period. This is to forestall the resistance by the WSDBs to DAs
         invitation to private operators to manage the larger systems.

      c) There is a need for greater involvement of RCCs and RCPUs in monitoring
         project implementation in order to ensure greater support to the District
         Assemblies in the coordination of resources and tracking of investment results.

      d) There is a need to shorten the long period between mobilization/planning and
         construction so as to minimize community frustration and to foster trust between
         the delivery agents and the beneficiary communities.

      e) There is need for more effective monitoring and management of results if MDG
         targets are to be measured efficiently.

      f) As much as possible consultants who undertake feasibility studies and design of
         water supply systems should be encouraged to supervise construction of those
         systems. This will help to prevent errors in the designs which usually result in
         substantial modifications and variations in contracts.




                                              36
g) Communities should be kept fully informed about the scope of the works during
   the project design stage, so as to prevent resulting disputes during setting out of
   the works.

h) Consultants and Contractors should be made fully aware of environmental issues
   in the execution of the works, and environmental management issues should be
   enshrined in the contract with punitive measures to facilitate compliance.

i) When DAs did not formally acquire sites for the system facilities, several
   conflicts arose between WSDB/DA/Supervisor and Landlords which held up
   work. Formal acquisition of sites selected for components of the system should
   be ensured at the project design stage to forestall conflicts with land owners.
   Lands released by community members for the project should be documented in
   writing and witnessed by District Chief Executives, to avoid litigation and the
   resultant project delays.

j) Slow response by most DAs to processing certified applications for work done
   was one of the major contributory factors to delay in the execution of the
   contracts. A procedural review and further capacity building is recommended to
   prevent such effects in future.

k) The modified replenishment system, remitting to the DA only what amount was
   necessary to pay a pending certificate/invoice, ensures that no excess funds are
   locked up with the DAs at any point during project implementation. Previously,
   just the IDA portion of DA expenditure returns were submitted on a
   replenishment request.

l) Regular stakeholder meetings at the RCC level enabled networking and
   information sharing across all the implementing districts, especially on the
   performance of the DA and the private sector. Equally useful, quarterly
   management meetings among the participating RWST, CWSA-Head Office and
   the World Bank, Ghana Office helped to address and resolve implementation
   problems and issues. In the future, DAs and service providers should be invited to
   participate in these useful project management meetings. At the ministerial level,
   effective consultation and co-ordination should be institutionalized among,
   CWSA, MWRWH, MLGRD, and MoFEP.

m) There is the tendency of stakeholders (MMDAs and WSDBs) to shift the
   emphasis to construction of physical facilities at the expense of capacity building
   and community involvement in general. There is the need to fully implement the
   TA/capacity building components in order to further enhance sustainability.

n) Funds disbursement and reporting by DAs should attract incentives to reward
   good performance and motivate DAs to excel in this area, and penalties in cases
   of poor performance.




                                       37
      o) There is a need fr a robust Sector Information System for M&E of not only
         access to water and sanitation, but of the quality of the services provided and the
         financial sustainability of the decentralized and community-owned systems.

7.0      CONCLUSION

The STWSSP has contributed greatly to minimize the incidence of water and sanitation
related diseases in the beneficiary communities. Furthermore, the project has contributed
immensely towards the Government’s decentralization, poverty reduction agenda, and
achievement of MDG goals. DAs, through the project, have been empowered to play a
pivotal role in development program through effective planning, implementation and
management – especially contract management and administration.

Community ownership and management has been embraced and further enhanced
through the empowerment of community institutional structures such as WATSANs and
WSDBs.




                                             38
Appendix 1 Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

        Table 16. STWSSP Project Performance Indicators




                                      39
                               Outcome Indicators                 End-of-Project                 Remarks
           PDO                                                     Achievement
Increase access to small     Provide 500,000 people           561,754 people provided
towns water supply and       with water supply facilities,    with potable water
sanitation services in six   and 50,000 people with
regions over the next four   sanitation facilities            50,424 people provided
years                                                         with HH sanitation
                                                              facilities
 Intermediate Results         Results Indicators for
  One per Component            Each Component
Component One :              Component One :

Community Subprojects        Categories of indicators

Result 1: participating      Institutional/social                                          Gender-balanced
small towns effectively                                                                    WSDBs have at least a
using their improved water                                                                 third of members being
and sanitation systems and                                                                 women. Benchmark
managing them in a                                                                         agreed at MTR.
sustainable manner
                             No. of Water Boards fully        73 Water Boards formed       Comprehensive WSDB
                             trained through project          and trained                  training and follow up
                                                                                           plan.

                             % of Water Boards that are       100% of WSDBs fully          WSDBs now include
                             gender balanced and fully        functioning                  provision for major
                             functioning                                                   replacements in tariff
                                                                                           setting for O&M
                             Financial

                             No. of small towns               73 small towns submitted     All systems new. Some
                             submitting acceptable            acceptable proposals         less than 1 year in
                             proposals (including cash                                     operation so far.
                             contribution in bank
                             account, adequate
                             management plan)

                             % of completed small             100%                         hygiene education
                             towns collecting adequate                                     including Global Hand
                             fees for O & M                                                washing was a success

                             Technical

                             No. of completed small           73 systems completed
                             town water systems
                             functioning as designed

                             % of completed                   100% functioning as
                             institutional and household      designed.
                             latrines effectively used and
                             maintained                       4,202 household latrines
                                                              completed

                                                              288 institutional latrines
                                                              completed

                                                              100% functioning
                                                              effectively

             Table 17. Project Performance Results Framework



                                                         40
Intermediate Results               Results Indicators                     End-of-Project
                                                                                                       Remarks
 One per Component               for Each Component                          Target
Component Two:                   Component Two :

Sector Support

Capacity of participating        No. of participating                  44 districts that
districts, the private sector,   districts with active district        participated.
regional government              W & S programs, fully
monitoring entities, and the     trained in small towns
MWRWH - Directorate for          service delivery and with
Water effectively                capacity to fulfill role in
developed to fulfill their       STWSSP
sector roles
                                 No. of private service                58 private service         6 TAs
                                 providers (TAs,                       providers                 18 HES – TAs
                                 contractors, artisans,                                          24 Contractors
                                 suppliers, etc.) trained                                        6 Financial M.
                                 and/or operational at                                           Consultants
                                 district/town levels.                                           4 Other Consultants

                                 No. of regional                       6 regional governments
                                 governments adequately
                                 monitoring district RWSS
                                 programs.

                                 Directorate of Water fully            Directorate of Water at   Progress collectively
                                 staffed and personnel                 Ministry of Water         being monitored by
                                 trained in RWSS policy                Resources, Works and      Sector Working Group.
                                 issues and M & E; sector              Housing involved in
                                 policy implementation                 monitoring
                                 monitored annually
                                 including progress towards
                                 meeting MDG targets.
Intermediate Results               Results Indicators                     End-of-Project
One per Component                for Each Component                          Target
Component Three:                 Component Three :                     Component Three :

Program Management

Efficient CWSA                   Amount of funds disbursed             US$43million              CWSA Head Office has
facilitation of national         by CWSA to districts                  approximately             released funds to 44 DAs
RWSS program and                 relative to planned                                             for subprojects and DA
management of STWSSP             disbursements.                                                  support

                                 Sector problem–solving                Yes                       Project Management and
                                 facilitated and lessons                                         Regional Stakeholder
                                 shared through stakeholder                                      meetings to identify and
                                 discussions coordinated by                                      resolve problems.
                                 CWSA.                                                           Lessons of experience
                                                                                                 were also discussed.




                                                                  41
Appendix 2 to Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR:
Project Costs

Table 18. STWSSP Receipts and Payments, as of August 31, 2010

 Receipts
 Code           Details/Description                     Amount (US$)
       1        IDA                                        45,536,441
       2        Gov’t of Ghana                             11,327,497
       3        District                                        727,841
       4        Community                                       552,100
                Total Receipts                             58,143,879
 Payments
      1.0       Sub-Project                                41,215,665
      1.1       Small Towns Pipe System                    36,764,135
      1.2       Sanitation/Latrine Construction             4,451,530
      2.0       Goods                                           515,139
      2.1       Vehicle and Equipment                           515,139
      3.0       Training and Consultancy                    3,227,969
      3.1       CWSA/District /Private Sector Support       3,227,969
      4.0.0     Program Management                         13,185,106
                CWSA STWSSP staff & administration
      4.1.0     costs                                      13,185,106
                Total Payments                             58,143,879




Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A


Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents




                                            42
43
45
