Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7645-PA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Competitiveness and Public Financial Management 
Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 24, 2009  
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7645-PA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 24, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
PANAMA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
(US$100,000,000) (“Loan”), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Page  3
2
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Page  4
3
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program, including any action listed under 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the 
opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives 
of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case 
later than the eighteen months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which 
expire on June 18, 2010. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Dirección de Crédito Público 
 Edificio 
Ogawa,
 
4
piso 
 
Vía España  
 Apartado 
0816-02886 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
 
Telephone: 
    Facsimile: 
 
(507) 
507-7202 
    (507) 
507-7200 
(507) 507-7204  
 
 
Page  5
4
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
By /s/ Federico Humbert 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Stefan Koeberle 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
 
 
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
1. 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to promote broad-based 
growth by enhancing private sector competitiveness include the following:
 
(a) 
The design of an internet portal to allow the online completion of export 
and import procedures (“
Ventanilla 
Única Digitalizada
”) in accordance 
with MICI’s national trade strategy set forth in the Borrower’s document 
entitled “Programs, Projects and Goals 2004-2009.” 
 
(b) 
The enactment by the Borrower’s legislative branch pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Science, Technology and Innovation National Strategic Plan, 
of legislative act (
Acto Legislativo
)
No.51 of 2008, published in the 
Borrower’s 
Gazeta Oficial
 No.26090 (July 24, 2008), which has as its 
purpose to legislate on the use of electronic signatures to support the 
development of electronic commerce (e-commerce).
 
(c) 
Pursuant to Decree-Law (
Decreto Ley
)
No. 8 of the Borrower, dated 
February 15, 2006, the issuance by INADEH of labor competency 
standards for at least nine key occupations. 
 
(d) 
(i) The enactment by the Borrower’s legislative branch pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Science, Technology and Innovation National Strategic Plan, 
of legislative act (
Acto Legislativo
)
No.56 of 2008, published in the 
Borrower’s 
Gazeta Oficial
 No.25943 (December 19, 2007), which 
establishes a national research system for the strengthening of the 
principal research centers of the Borrower’s territory and thus achieve an 
increase in the number and quality of researchers; and (ii) the issuance, 
by the Borrower’s 
Consejo Directivo Nacional del Sistema Nacional de 
Investigación de Panamá
 of 
Resolución No. 01-2008, dated February 21, 
2008, regulating their establishment and operation.
 
2. 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to consolidate fiscal 
sustainability, transparency and efficiency through a modernized public financial 
management system include the following: 
 
(a) 
The elaboration by MEF of scenario analyses for measuring the cost and 
risk of financing strategies prepared as support to the development of a 
Page  7
6
debt management strategy and the carrying out of related exercises by 
MEF.  
 
(b)   
The enactment b
y
the Borrower’s legislative branch, through legislative 
act (
Acto Legislativo
)
No. 34 of June 05, 2008 published in the 
Borrower’s 
Gazeta Oficial
 No.26056 of June 06, 2008, of a Social and 
Fiscal Responsibility Law which strengthens the Borrower’s fiscal and 
planning norms to be applied by MEF. 
 
(c)    
The modernization of the audit functions through the use of computer-
assisted audit techniques in the carrying out by CGR of the financial 
audits of at least five public entities of the Borrower. 
 
(d)   
The issuance by DGCP of at least 6 framework contracts for the 
consolidated public procurement of selected key goods and services to 
achieve economies of scale related savings.  
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars
)
Single Tranche 
 
100,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
Page  8
7
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this
 account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2011 
 
through May 15, 2033 
 
2.17% 
On November 15, 2033 
 
2.35% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Page  10
9
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  11
10
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“CGR” means 
Contraloría General de la República
,
the office of the 
Comptroller of the Borrower. 
 
2. 
“DGCP” means 
Dirección General de Contrataciones Públicas
,
the entity 
responsible for public procurement of all public sector entities of the Borrower.  
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
Page  12
11
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
5. “INADEH” 
means 
Instituto Nacional de
 Formación Professional y Capacitación 
para el Desarrollo Humano, 
the 
Borrower’s National Training Institute, 
established by Decree-Law No.8 dated February 15, 2006. 
 
6. “MEF’ 
means 
Ministerio de
 Economía y Finanzas
 and, depending on the context, 
either the Ministry of Economy or Finance of the Borrower or the Minister in 
charge thereof.  
 
7. 
“MICI” means 
Ministerio de Comercio e Industrias
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry. 
 
8. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated November 07, 2008, from the Borrower to the 
Bank, declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, 
and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
9. 
“Science, Technology and Innovation National Strategic Plan” means a plan of 
the Borrower for the captioned matters, approved by the Borrower’s 
Consejo de 
Gabinete
 on December 21, 2005.  
 
Page  13
12
10. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
Page  14
13
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
