Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4093 
Operation Name 
Competitiveness and Public Financial Management DPL 2 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%); General industry 
and trade sector (50%) 
Project ID 
P106641 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
August 15, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 16, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 11, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement:
 
Panama’s GDP has been 
growing very fast in recent years, averaging 8.6 percent during 2004-2007. The economy’s 
medium term outlook is also very positive, with average annual growth expected to exceed 7 
percent over the next four years. To a large extent, Panama is reaping the benefits of a broad-
based reform agenda that was started in the second half of the 1990s, when trade barriers and 
price controls were largely dismantled, a far-reaching privatization program and anti-trust 
legislation were introduced, and fiscal reforms coupled to debt-reduction allowed Panama to 
regain access to international financial markets. The current Government recaptured the 
momentum on this structural reform agenda and has placed a renewed emphasis on fiscal 
sustainability, transparency and improved efficiency, while at the same time exploiting the 
advantages of Panama’s open trade and investment regime. In particular, the Government has 
succeeded in moving ahead with a project to expand the Panama Canal and is currently exploring 
a
range of other large infrastructure projects, including a possible regional oil refinery. The 
expanded canal, expected to be operational in 2014, would provide a supply-driven growth 
impulse. 
 
2. 
The challenge facing Panama, however, is not just one of weathering the current global 
financial crisis as a means of preserving rapid growth, but also of ensuring that economic 
benefits are more broadly shared. Indeed, Panama’s economic development has been 
characterized by a high degree of inequality. Growth has traditionally benefited mainly the 
capital-intensive service sectors concentrated geographically in the Panama and Colon provinces, 
while generating little economic opportunity for less skilled members of society. The increased 
fiscal transfers from an expanded canal offer a unique opportunity to address this challenge in 
the medium-term. 
 
3. 
Panama’s economic growth has been accelerating during the past four years, peaking at a 
record rate of 11.2 percent in 2007, and the rate of unemployment has declined sharply. The 
economic boom appears to have been triggered by rapid improvements in the external 
environment, coupled with an improved fiscal stance and a strengthened banking system, both of 
which raised investor confidence and facilitated the transmission of positive external shocks onto 
Page  2
the domestic economy. From a sector perspective, GDP growth has been mainly driven by the 
tertiary or services sectors, which accounted for 80 percent of the total increase in GDP since 
2002. Within the service sector, the main engines of growth have been transport & 
communications, hotels & restaurants, and commerce. The recovery of financial intermediation 
also has been making a major contribution since 2005. The secondary sector accounted for most 
of the remaining increase in GDP since 2002 (16 percent), mainly on account of a booming 
construction industry. In contrast, agriculture (excluding fisheries) and manufacturing, which 
remain among the most protected sectors in Panama, have not exhibited anywhere near the same 
dynamism being shown by the service sectors.  
 
4. 
Before the recent financial developments, economic growth was projected to decelerate to 
around 8 percent in 2008 in light of the ongoing slowdown in the US economy 
–Panama’s most 
important trading partner and the prime user of the canal. In the medium-term, growth is 
expected to converge towards its trend level of 7 percent. The canal expansion project will give a 
boost to investment activity, especially in the 2009-11 period, including complementary 
investments in the ports and telecoms sectors. This effect would be countered by higher oil prices 
and a likely slowdown in the real estate boom. These projections are, however, in the process of 
being updated as a result of the global financial crisis. There are two main channels through 
which the current global environment can affect Panama. On the one hand, as in other parts of 
the world the Panamanian financial sector may suffer the global credit squeeze, even though so 
far no evidence along this front has emerged. On the other hand, the expected global slow down 
will likely reduce traffic in the Canal and hence affect economic activity and government 
revenues. 
 
5. 
Panama’s CPI inflation has accelerated rapidly in 2007 and 2008, reaching levels not seen 
since the oil price shocks of the 1970s and 1980s. Year-on-year CPI inflation reached 9.6 percent 
in June 2008 driven by food and commodity prices, a strong economic performance, and the 
weak dollar. Food prices (accounting for a third of the consumer basket) rose by 15.1 percent in 
June 2008 compared to 2.4 percent in January 2007. Although the rise in food prices is a global 
phenomenon, the domestic food price inflation may be partly associated with the protection 
granted (through tariffs and non-tariff barriers) to domestic producers in the agriculture and agro-
industry sector. Higher food prices are expected to spill-over into higher prices in the non-
tradables sector. To address the higher cost of living the government has taken several measures, 
including: (i) reducing the income tax on low-income earners; (ii) increasing interest mortgage 
subsidies and broadening eligibility of subsidized mortgages; (iii) direct government import and 
distribution of staple food items at cost; (iv) lowering import tariffs on selected food and 
intermediate items; and (v) supporting the agricultural sector through the facilitation of imports 
of agricultural inputs.  
 
6. 
Food price inflation is expected to decline as global food prices level off after 2008. 
Headline inflation will decline only gradually due to wage pressures arising from a tight labor 
market and the impact of food inflation on non-tradable goods. The current account deficit will 
widen due to capital and other imports related to the canal expansion, but will contract again 
once this project nears its end. Public sector revenue collection will remain strong over the 
projection period, but will nevertheless decline relative to prior years which benefited from some 
extraordinary inflows. Expenditures will be kept in check in adherence to the recently approved 
Page  3
Social and Fiscal Responsibility Law, which limits the overall public deficit to one percent of 
GDP. 
 
7. 
Public finances have strengthened remarkably in recent years as revenues surged and 
spending was kept under control. The nonfinancial public sector balance, excluding PCA, turned 
from a deficit of about 5 percent of GDP in 2004 into a surplus of 3.5 percent of GDP in 2007, 
despite a major increase of capital spending in 2007. The tax reform package adopted by the 
Torrijos Administration in 2005, including the parametric changes contained in the pension 
reform, is the most important contributing factor. The recent increases in the revenue-to-GDP 
ratio are also explained by higher fiscal transfers from the PCA, more effective tax collection 
efforts and some extraordinary events.
1
The positive fiscal results along with the strong economy 
have been reflected in a significant reduction in the public debt from a peak of 62.2 percent of 
GDP in 2004 to 45.7 percent of GDP in 2007. The improved fiscal position contributed to a 
Standard & Poors upgrade of 
Panama’s long-term foreign and local currency issuer default 
ratings from “”BB” to “BB+”, while Fitch affirmed Panama’s rating at “BB+” and revised the 
rating outlook to Positive. 
 
8. 
Panama has traditionally run a current account deficit, which reached 8.0 percent in 2007 
after a temporary decline in the two previous years. Export services related to the canal, ports, 
tourism and re-exports is a sizeable positive item in the current account, although still not great 
enough to offset the trade deficit. The current account deficit is financed by foreign direct 
investment – mainly in the financial, commerce and housing sectors – averaging more than 9 
percent of GDP annually since 2004.  
 
9. 
A debt sustainability analysis carried out in early 2006 under fairly conservative medium-
term growth projections had concluded that Panama’s consolidated public debt, which stood at 
58.3 percent of GDP at the end of 2005 (down from 62.2 percent in 2004), would be sustainable 
(in the sense of placing the public debt ratio on a steadily declining trajectory) as long as the 
government is able to maintain a primary fiscal surplus of 1.6 percent of GDP. Under the current 
macroeconomic settings, with growth well above the 4 percent used in baseline simulations and 
with the primary surplus well above 1.6 percent, Panama’s debt ratios are projected to continue 
declining at much faster rates than previously anticipated. The limits on public deficits and debt 
introduced by the Social Fiscal Responsibility Law are expected to further strengthen debt 
sustainability. 
 
10.  These positive views are shared by IMF staff, whose latest projections (Article IV 
consultation report to be presented to the Board on July, 28
th
,
2008
–
see Annex 3) suggest that 
public debt would fall to 30.0 percent of GDP in 2010 and to 23.8 percent by 2013.  Even when 
using the most comprehensive measure of public debt,
2
the IMF concludes that debt 
sustainability is not a concern. Thus, given Panama’s positive growth outlook and the strong 
indications that its public debt is on a steadily declining trajectory, the country’s overall 
1
Extraordinary events explain approximately one percentage point of the increase in the revenue-to-GDP ratio in 
2006 and 2007, including capital gains tax generated from the HSBC acquisition of a local bank in 2006 as well as 
the tender for the duty free concession at the Tocumen Airport in 2007. 
2
A
debt sustainability analysis of total NFPS debt (including PCA debt) was conducted by the IMF. 
Page  4
macroeconomic framework can be considered adequate for the purposes of the proposed 
operation and conducive to achieving its objectives. 
 
11. 
The GOP has taken some major steps to strengthen the overall foundations for sustained 
broad-based economic growth, including the passage during 2005 of the fiscal reform package 
and the politically difficult pension reform, together with measures to increase fiscal 
transparency, improve budget management and modernize public procurement. The above 
reforms were supported by the Bank through the PFIDPL and the First C&PFM DPL and
 
can be 
considered important steps toward the objectives of restoring fiscal sustainability and further 
improving public financial management. The proposed DPL would support the GOP’s continued 
progress towards these objectives. The principal issues and government plans with respect to 
these areas are discussed further below in some depth as they form the background to the specific 
actions supported by the DPL series in the area of public financial management. 
 
12. 
Another important Government action, toward the objective of increasing broad-based 
economic growth, was the negotiation of a free trade agreement with the United States.
3
To 
maximize the benefits of this and other FTAs, diversify Panama’s sources of growth and increase 
productivity, actions will be needed to address key constraints to private sector competitiveness. 
In this context, the GOP is implementing a so called “complementary agenda” of reforms, aimed 
at enhancing competitiveness and taking advantage of the opportunities offered by Panama’s 
increasing degree of trade integration.
4
This policy agenda includes actions aimed at improving 
the efficiency and transparency of the State as a facilitator of private investments by means of 
reducing bureaucratic red tape, improving human capital through vocational and 
entrepreneurship training programs and promoting increases in private sector productivity by 
fostering technology adoption and innovation. The proposed DPL would continue to support 
progress toward these competitiveness-enhancing objectives, which are critical for increasing the 
productivity of Panamanian businesses. The main issues in each of these areas and the 
corresponding Government plans are described further below, as background for the specific 
actions supported by this DPL series in the area of competitiveness enhancing policies.  
 
13. 
The GOP is taking other major steps in the context of its 
Strategic Vision
 to foster broad-
based growth but they are not elaborated here in detail as they lie beyond the scope of the 
proposed DPL series. They include, notably, the expansion of the Panama Canal to accommodate 
larger ships, and the launch in 2006 of a conditional cash transfer (CCT) program, “
Red de 
Oportunidades.
”
The Canal expansion project, which received overwhelming support in an 
October 2006 referendum, should help strengthen Panama’s comparative advantage in the 
traditionally dynamic service sectors associated with the Canal. In parallel, the GOP is seeking to 
increase private participation in various major infrastructure projects in the ports, urban 
transport, sewerage, and power sectors. As for the CCT program, supported by the Bank and the 
IADB through investment operations, it is expected to improve the targeting of social assistance, 
3
The agreement was signed in June 2007 but is still to be ratified by the U.S. Congress. 
4
In September 2006, through the Cabinet Decree 37, the GOP created the Council of Ministers for the 
Complementary Agenda and Competitiveness
 (“Consejo de Ministros para la Agenda Complementaria y la 
Competitividad”) to develop policies and programs for improving Panama’s competitiveness in order to take 
advantage of opportunities derived from increased market access. The council is composed of the Ministers of Trade 
and Industry, Economy and Finance, Agriculture, Foreign Affairs and Labor. 
Page  5
increase the poverty impact of social expenditures and allow more Panamanians to benefit from 
the country’s favorable growth performance. Finally, in the context of the trade-complementary 
and competitiveness enhancing reform agenda, the GOP is working with the IADB in the 
modernization of the agencies in charge of implementing international trade agreements, as well 
as on the design of temporary financing and technical assistance mechanisms to support the 
adjustment of private enterprises directly affected by FTAs.  
 
14. 
The DPL series was prepared in close dialogue with Panamanian authorities and in line 
with the CPS. The series supports specific components of the Government program, which is the 
outcome of national democratic policymaking processes. Indeed, in addition to democratic 
elections –which indicate public preferences for the policy platforms of parties and candidates– 
the GOP makes use of various means of consultation to develop reforms and reach agreement. 
Recent examples include the multi-party negotiations undertaken to conclude the pension reform, 
the national referendum on the Panama Canal and the 
National Dialogue for Development
.
5
The 
consultations done for the CPS, of which the DPL series is an integral part, stressed messages 
contained in the DPL program, particularly: (i) the importance of promoting broad-based 
economic growth and competitiveness as a way to reduce poverty and promote employment 
creation; (ii) the importance of strengthening the effectiveness of key public institutions, 
including supporting reforms and initiatives to promote the establishment of more modern and 
transparent public financial management systems; and (iii) the role played by improvements in 
the efficiency and transparency of Government spending both in enhancing the delivery of social 
services and in improving the investment climate. 
 
15.  The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) aims to provide selective, demand driven 
technical, financial, analytical and capacity building assistance that deepens the Panama-Bank 
partnership in support to four objectives which are aligned with the pillars and goals of Panama’s 
2004-2009 Strategic Vision.  The program is designed to focus on a limited number of 
interrelated objectives and to make institutional capacity building a cross-cutting theme.  In 
addition, the program anticipates that there will be a change in Government on July 1, 2009 and 
is set up to help provide the new Government with information on policy issues as well as access 
to immediate financial and technical support to bridge until a new Partnership Strategy is agreed. 
 
16. 
Proposed objective(s):
 
The proposed DPL would continue support toward the medium-
term objectives included in: (i) the Public Finance and Institutional DPL (PFIDPL, FY07) for 
US$60 million equivalent, which was approved as a stand-alone operation in the context of the 
Interim Strategy Note for the Republic of Panama (ISN, FY06-07), and (ii) the First 
Competitiveness and Public Finance Management DPL (First C&PFM, FY08) for US$75 million 
equivalent,  which was approved in the context of the Country Partnership Strategy  for the 
Republic of Panama (CPS, FY08-10). As agreed with the Government, the DPL series supports 
5
The main goal of this national dialogue 
–
the “
C
oncertación Nacional Para el Desarollo
”
–
has been that of 
prioritizing the use of additional revenues to be generated by the expansion of the Panama Canal, in the context of 
the overarching objective of eradicating poverty in Panama. The process, facilitated by UNDP, has had the 
participation of representatives from Government and a wide range of civil society and private sector organizations. 
The Government’s programs on Economic Growth and Competitiveness, Fiscal Stability, and Institutional 
Strengthening were among the focal areas discussed by the working groups. 
Page  6
outcomes that could be attained by December 31, 2008, reflecting achievements through the final 
full fiscal year of the current administration. 
 
17. 
Preliminary description:
 
The proposed Loan is the second in a programmatic series of 
two DPLs, which build upon the Public Finance and Institutional DPL included in the previous 
Bank interim country strategy, intended to support the Government’s development program as 
described in its Strategic Vision document. Within this framework, this DPL series focuses on 
actions aimed at: (I)Promoting broad-based growth through the enhancement of private sector 
competitiveness, by reducing bureaucratic red tape, improving training policies, and increasing 
investments in innovation; and (ii) consolidating fiscal sustainability, transparency and efficiency 
through the modernization of public financial management systems for revenue, debt, fiscal 
reporting, and public procurement. 
 
18. 
The proposed DPL was originally planned as a US$75 million operation. However, in view 
of the recent turbulence in global financial markets and the potential impact that it may have on 
Panama, the authorities have requested the Bank to increase it by US$25 million to US$100. 
 
19. 
Environment Aspects:
 
Specific actions supported by this DPL are not expected to have 
significant effects on the environment, forests or other natural resources. It is worth noting, in 
any case, that the Bank is currently supporting the GOP through the preparation of a strategic 
Country Environmental Analysis (CEA), with the objective of helping to strengthen Panama’s 
national institutional capacity to identify and address overall environmental policy and 
regulatory issues.  
 
20. 
Tentative financing: 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
100 
 Total 
100 
Contact point 
Contact: Aquiles A. Almansi 
Title: Sr Financial Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-5970 
Fax: (202) 614-0107 
Email: aalmansi@worldbank.org 
 
