                                               Documentof
                                            The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                  ReportNo. 46289-PA




       INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT



                                      PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                  FOR A

                                           PROPOSED LOAN


                             INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$lOO MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

                                                 FOR A

       SECOND COMPETITIVENESSAND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                 DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN




                                           November 14,2008




PovertyReductionand EconomicManagement1OperationsServices
CentralAmerica Country ManagementUnit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipientsonly in the performanceof their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                PANAMA GOVERNMENTFISCAL
                           -                        YEAR
                        January 1-December31

                        CURRENCY    EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange Rate Effectiveas ofNovember 5,2008)

                   Currency Unit             Balboa
                     US$l.oo                 B./1.OO

                         Weights and Measures
                              Metric System

                 ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

ACPDC        Authority for Consumer Protectionandthe Defenseof Competition
BNP          National Bank of Panama
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CCT          ConditionalCash Transfer
CEA          Country EnvironmentalAnalysis
CEM/ICA      Country Economic Memorandum/Investment Climate Assessment
CFAA/CPAR    Country FinancialAccountability and Procurement Assessment Report
CFZ          ColonFreeZone
CGR          Office of the ControllerGeneral of the Republic
CICYT        Inter-MinisterialCouncil of Science, Technology and Innovation
CNC          NationalCompetitivenessCenter
COBE         System of Public Works Control
CONCYT       Commissionof Science, Technology and Innovation
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
css          Social Security Institute(Caja de Seguro Social)
DCP          Public Credit Directorate
DGCP         Public Procurement Directorate
DGA          General Directorateof Customs
DGI          General RevenueDirectorate
DPL          Development Policy Loan
EGP          Electronic Government Procurement
FRL          FiscalResponsibilityLaw
FTA          FreeTrade Agreement
                          "
FY           FiscalYear
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GNI          GrossNational Income
GOP          Government of Panama
IBRD         InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
IADB         Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
IFARHU       HumanResourcesInstitute
IFC          InternationalFinanceCorporation
IMF          InternationalMonetaryFund
INADEH       NationalTraining Institute
I S N        InterimStrategy Note
LAC          Latin America Region
LDP          Letter of Development Policy
MDGs         Millennium Development Goals

                                                                            FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY



         MEF                     Ministry o f Economy and Finance
         MINEDUC                 Ministry of Education
         NFPS                    Non-FinancialPublic Sector
         OECD                    Organizationfor Economic Cooperation and Development
         PanamaCompra            Public e-Procurementsystem
         PBL                     Policy BasedLoan
         PCA                     PanamaCanal Authoritv
         PCN                     ProjectConcept Note
         PEFA                    PublicExpenditure and FinancialAccountability
         PFIDPL                  PublicFinanceand InstitutionalDevelopment Policy Loan
         PFM                     Public FinancialManagement
         PIN                     Public InformationNotices
         PPTAL                   Public Policy Technical Assistance Loan
         QAG                     Quality Assurance Group
         ROC                     RegionalOperations Committee
         ROSC                    Report on the Observanceof Standards and Codes
         R&D                     Researchand Development
         SDR                     Special DrawingRights
         SENACYT                 Secretariat for Science, Technology and Innovation
         SIAFPA                  Integrated financial management system
         SIGUEME                 Document Trackingand Management System
         SINIP                  National System of Public Investment
         SPIG                    Presidential Secretariat for Government Innovation
         UNDP                    UnitedNationsDevelopment Program




                                        Vice President: PamelaCox
                                     CountryDirector: Laura Frigenti
                                      Sector Directors: Marcel0Giugaleand Stefan Koeberle
                                   Task Team Leaders: Aquiles Almansi and ManuelVargas




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.



                                                        ...


                                                                   PANAMA

        SECOND COMPETITIVENESSAND PUBLICFINANCIALMANAGEMENT
                                           DEVELOPMENT LOAN                    POLICY

                                                   TABLEOFCONTENTS

 I            INTRODUCTION                  .........................................................................................................             1
 I1
  ..          COUNTRY CONTEXT                        ................................................................................................             2
                  A. Recent Economic Developments in Panama......................................................                                                 2
                  B. Macroeconomic Outlook and DebtSustainability ..............................................                                                  4
 I11.         THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM                                          ........................................................................           6
                  A. The Competitiveness Program............................................................................                                      8
                  B. The Public FinancialManagement Program.......................................................                                                16
 I V.         BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM                                                                      .................................      21
                  A Linkto the Country Partnership Strategy...........................................................
                    .                                                                                                                                             21
                  B. Collaborationwiththe IMF.Other Bank Operations. and Other Donors..........-22
                  C. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................                            22
                  D. Analytical Underpinnings...................................................................................                                  24
 V .          THE PROPOSEDOPERATION                                   ................................................................................            24
                  A. Operation Description........................................................................................                               -24
 VI .         OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION                                         .........................................................................           33
                  A. Poverty and Social Impacts ................................................................................                                  33
                  B. EnvironmentalAspects......................................................................................                                  -33
                  C. Implementation. Monitoring and Evaluation.....................................................                                              -33
                  D. Fiduciary Aspects ...............................................................................................                            34
                  E. Disbursements..................................................................................................... 34
                  F. Risks and Risk Mitigation...................................................................................                                 34




 ANNEXES
 ANNEX 1 LETTER OFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY                                                                                                                               36
 ANNEX 2    .. MATRIX                                                                   ................................................................
                             OFPOLICYACTIONS AND EXPECTEDOUTCOMES                                                                                                 40
 ANNEX 3 FUNDRELATIONSNOTE
            .                                                                                                                             ....................
                                                              .......................................................................................
 ANNEX 4 THE PUBLICPOLICY REFORMTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT
            .                                                                                                                                                     44

 ANNEX 5 OPERATIONSPORFOLIO(IBRD/IDA AND GRANTS)                                                                                                                  48
 ANNEX 6 IFC COMMITTED AND DISBURSEDOUTSTANDINGINVESTMENT
            ..                                                                                                       ......................................   .....47

 PORTFOLIO      ....................................................................................................................................              49
 ANNEX 7 PANAMA AT A GLANCE
            .                                                ........................................................................................             50




 The Panama Second Competitiveness and Public Financial Management DPL was prepared by an IBRD team
 consisting of Aquiles Almansi. Pablo Fajnzylber. Enrique Fanta. Ruben Gomez. Lars Moller. Helena Ramos.
 Manuel Vargas. Josio N. Veiga Malta. and Antonio Velandia. The team is grateful to the Government of Panama
 for the close collaboration during loan preparation. Todd Crawford. Ulrich Lachler and Humberto Lopez
Isupported the team with internal quality oversight. The peer reviewers are Albert0 Leyton and Esperanza
 Lasagabaster.




                                                                          iv


                     LOAN    AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                                   PANAMA

     SECOND COMPETITIVENESSAND PUBLIC FINANCIAL                 MANAGEMENT
                      DEVELOPMENT LOAN    POLICY

Borrower             Republic of Panama
Implementing Agency  Ministryof Economy andFinance
Financing Data       IBRDLoan
                     Terms: Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) inUS Dollars with level
                     repaymentsof principal commitment-linked, payable in 25 years,
                     including a 2 year grace period. Front-end Fee i s of 0.25 percent on
                     principal amount, payable not later than 60 days after the
                     Effectiveness Date.
                     Amount: US$100Million
Operation Type       The proposedLoan is the second in a programmatic series of two
                     DPLs. It comprises a single tranche to be disbursed uponloan
                     effectiveness.
MainPolicy Areas     This DPL series focuses on actions aimed at:

                    0   Promoting broad-basedgrowth through the enhancement o f
                        private sector competitiveness, by reducing bureaucraticred
                        tape, improving training policies, and increasing investmentsin
                        innovation.
                        Consolidating fiscal sustainability, transparency and efficiency
                        through the modernization of public financial management
                        systems for revenue, debt, fiscal reporting, and public
                        procurement.

Key Outcome         Competitiveness:
Indicators          Reducedbureaucratic red tape for private businesses:
                     0 Consolidation and elimination of more than 200 administrative
                       processes, together with digitalization of existing processes to 90
                       on-line transactions.
                    Improved worker training policies:
                       Increaseinnumber of workers trained from 42,000 in2006 to
                       200,000 in2008.
                    Increasedinvestmentsininnovation:
                       IncreaseinR&D expendituresper population, from $11.76 in
                       2005 to $20 in2008 (excluding the Smithsonian Institution).

                    Public Financial Management:
                    Improved revenue and debt policy and management:
                    Improved debt sustainability, as measuredby the reduction intotal
                    consolidatedNFPS debt to 54% of GDP or less (from 65.9% in
                    2004).



                                       V

                     Enhanced fiscal transparency and financial management governance:
                        Reduced payment arrears, as measured by reduction inthe
                        average No. o f days to process paymentsto providers, to at most
                        90 days (from 175 days in2004).
                     Improved expenditure efficiency and transparency through public
                     procurement:
                     0  Cost savings o f at least 10% against market prices inkey items
                        (computer equipment, vehicles and office supplies) procured
                        through framework contracts.

                     Note: The full list o f outcome indicators can be found inAnnex 2.
Program Development  The DPL program supports stagedprogress towards medium-term
Objectives and       program outcomes related to two CPS objectives: promoting broad-
Contribution to CPS  based economic growth by means o f measures designed to enhance
                     Panama's competitiveness, and establishing modernpublic financial
                     management systems and institutions (Table 2 highlights the CPS
                     areas directly connected to the DPL Program).
Risksand Risk        The medium-termoutlook i s not completely without risks, although
Mitigation           macroeconomic vulnerabilities in Panama have fallen in recent
                     years, as growth has accelerated, debt has declined as a share o f
                     GDP, and fiscal balances have improved. As elaborated in section
                     V I (part F), the proposed DPL program takes into account potential
                     risks inthree areas: economic, political and institutional strategy.

Operation IDNumber   P106641




                                         vi

     INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTION                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT A PROPOSED     FOR

     SECOND COMPETITIVENESSAND PUBLIC FINANCIALMANAGEMENT
                    DEVELOPMENT LOAN PANAMA
                                         POLICY             To


                                 I. INTRODUCTION

1.      This program document describes a single-tranche Second Competitiveness and
Public Financial Management Development Policy Loan (Second C&PFM DPL) to the
Republic o f Panama for US$lOO million equivalent. This operation i s being proposed as
the second inthe programmatic series that continues to support the Government's program
to consolidate fiscal discipline and increase public sector transparency and efficiency, as
means for -inter alia- enhancing private sector competitiveness. These two sets o f
objectives are mutually reinforcing, as public financial management systems that
contribute to fiscal discipline, operational efficiency and strategic allocation o f resources
are critical elements of public sector effectiveness, which in turn can positively influence
the country's enabling environment for private sector development. Moreover, both are
critical for achieving progress toward the GOP's overarching objective o f increasing and
sustaining broad-based economic growth in Panama, which would in turn contribute to
continued fiscal stability.

2.      The proposed DPL was originally planned as a US$75 million operation. However,
in view of the recent turbulence in global financial markets and the potential impact that it
may have on Panama, the authorities have requested the Bank to increase it by US$25
million to US$lOO.

3 ,     The DPL series specifically supports competitiveness enhancing reforms to reduce
bureaucratic red tape and modernize training and innovation policies, as well as reforms
aimed at modernizing public financial management by increasing fiscal transparency and
improving public procurement, revenue and debt management systems. The efficient and
effective operation o f these systems i s critical for improving both the delivery o f public
services and the competitiveness o f the private sector, a fact that underlines the
interconnections between the two areas on which the DPL series focuses.

4.      The proposed DPL would continue support toward the medium-term objectives
included in: (i)the Public Finance and Institutional DPL (PFIDPL, FY07) for US$60
million equivalent, which was approved as a stand-alone operation in the context o f the
Interim Strategy Note for the Republic of Panama (ISN, FY06-07), and (ii)the First
Competitiveness and Public Finance Management DPL (First C&PFM, FY08) for US$75
million equivalent,    which was approved in the context o f the Country Partnership
Strategy for the Republic of Panama (CPS, FY08-10). As agreed with the Government,
the DPL series supports outcomes that could be attained by December 31, 2008, reflecting
achievements through the final full fiscal year o f the current administration.




                                               1

5,       The DPL series i s an important component of the Bank lending program to support
Government designatedprograms under two objectives of the CPS: promoting broad-based
economic growth and establishing modern public financial management systems and
institutions. These objectives are aligned with the Strategic Vision of Economic &
Employment Development Toward 2009 articulated by the Torrijos Administration, which
emphasizes fiscal discipline, transparency and greater efficiency as crucial elements for
accelerating export-led economic growth, creating morejobs and lowering poverty by one-
fifth during its term of office. In the two areas of the CPS supported through the DPL
series, the Government and the Bank have established strong policy dialogue supported by
analytical work. Moreover, under the CPS, the Bank will continue providing technical
assistance and capacity building support complementary to the DPL series.

                              11.     COUNTRY CONTEXT

6.       Panama's GDP has been growing very fast in recent years, averaging 8.6 percent
during 2004-2007. Even though Panama's medium term macroeconomic framework is in
the process of adjusting to the current global turbulence, the outlook remains positive.
Indeed, the average annual growth over the next four years was expected to exceed 7
percent before the start of the present financial turbulence, thus giving substantial space to
accommodate potential shocks. To a large extent, Panama is reaping the benefits of a
broad-based reform agenda that was started in the second half of the 1 9 9 0 ~when trade
                                                                                   ~
barriers and price controls were largely dismantled, a far-reaching privatization program
and anti-trust legislation were introduced, and fiscal reforms coupled to debt-reduction
allowed Panama to regain access to international financial markets. The current
Government recapturedthe momentum on this structural reform agenda and has placed a
renewedemphasis on fiscal sustainability, transparency and improved efficiency, while at
the same time exploiting the advantages of Panama's opentrade and investment regime. In
particular, the Government has succeeded in moving ahead with a project to expand the
Panama Canal and is currently exploring a range of other large infrastructure projects,
including a possible regional oil refinery. The expanded canal, expected to be operational
in2014, would provide a supply-driven growth impulse.

7.       The challenge facing Panama, however, i s not just one of weathering the current
global financial crisis as a means of preserving rapid growth, but also o f ensuring that
economic benefits are more broadly shared. Indeed, Panama's economic development has
been characterized by a high degree o f inequality. Growth has traditionally benefited
mainly the capital-intensive service sectors concentratedgeographically inthe Panama and
Colon provinces, while generating little economic opportunity for less skilled members of
society. The increased fiscal transfers from an expanded canal offer a unique opportunity
to address this challenge inthe medium-term.

A. RecentEconomic Developments in Panama

8.      Panama's economic growth has been accelerating during the past four years,
peaking at a record rate of 11.5 percent in 2007, and the rate of unemployment has
declined sharply. The economic boom appears to have been triggered by rapid
improvements in the external environment, coupled with an improved fiscal stance and a
strengthened banking system, both of which raised investor confidence and facilitated the
transmission of positive external shocks onto the domestic economy. From a sector


                                             2

 perspective, GDP growth has been mainly drivenby the tertiary or services sectors, which
 accounted for 80 percent o f the total increase in GDP since 2002. Within the service sector,
 the main engines of growth have been transport & communications, hotels & restaurants,
 and commerce. The recovery o f financial intermediation also has been making a major
 contribution since 2005. The secondary sector accounted for most o f the remaining
 increase in GDP since 2002 (16 percent), mainly on account o f a booming construction
 industry. In contrast, agriculture (excluding fisheries) and manufacturing, which remain
 among the most protected sectors in Panama, have not exhibited anywhere near the same
 dynamism beingshown by the service sectors.


                    Table 1: Panama Medium-Term MacroeconomicFramework
                                   (in% of GDP, unless notedotherwise)

                                ......................
                                    2004          2005Actual
                                                         2006
                                                            _______________
                                                                     2007   __-____________ __________-_-_____
                                                                             2008      2009     2010   2011
                                                                                       Projection
GDP growth rate (%)                   7.5           7.2   8.7         II5     8.3       5 5      6 6    7 5

Inflation rate (%, average)           0.5           2.9   2.5          4.2    10.0      4 2      3 5    3 5

Gross Domestic Investment            20.3          18.4   19.5        22.8   25.5      26.6     29.1    27.4

National Savings                     12.7          13.4   16.2        15.6    14.9      16.1     16.5   16.6

Open Unemployment (YO)                9.7           8.1   6.8          5.3    4.7       n a.     n.a.   n.a.


Revenues(excludingPCA)               21 1          22.3   24.9        27.9   25.9      24.9     24 7    24 5

Expenditure(excludingPCA)            26.0          24.9   24 4        24.4   25.2      25.6     25.4    25.3

Overall Balance, excl. PCA           -4 9          -2 6   0.5          3.5    0.7      -0.7     -0.7    -0.8

Primary Balance, excl. PCA           -0.7           1.8   4.8          6 9    3 7       2 3       1 8    1.3



MerchandiseExports (fob)*            8.1            8.3   8.5          8.2    7 6       6 9      6 7    6.7

MerchandiseImports(fob)*             19.6          20.5   22.0        26.8   29.1      28.0     29.4    26.9

Current Account Balance              -7.5          -4.9   -3.2        -7.2   -10.6     -10.5    -12.6  -10 8

PublicDebt (excl. PCA)**             62.2          58.3   52.6        45.7   37.9      35.4     32.7    30 1
*Excludes the Col6n Free Zone. **Net of CSS and Fiduciary Funddebt owed by the Central Government.
Source: IMFand WB calculations.


9.        Panama's CPI inflation has accelerated rapidly in 2007 and 2008, reaching levels
not seen since the oil price shocks o f the 1970s and 1980s. Year-on-year CPI inflation
reached 9.6 percent in June 2008 driven by food and commodity prices, a strong economic
performance, and the weak dollar. Food prices (accounting for a third o f the consumer
basket) rose by 15.1 percent in June 2008 compared to 2.4 percent in January 2007. Higher
food prices are expected to spill-over into higher prices in the non-tradable sector. To
address the higher cost of living the government has taken several measures, including: (i)
reducing the income tax on low-income earners; (ii)increasing interest mortgage subsidies
and broadening eligibility o f subsidized mortgages; (iii)direct government import and
distribution o f staple food items at cost; (iv) lowering import tariffs on selected food and
intermediate items; and (v) supporting the agricultural sector through the facilitation o f
imports o f agricultural inputs.


                                                         3

 10.     Public finances have strengthened remarkably in recent years as revenues surged
 and spending was kept under control. The nonfinancial public sector balance, excluding
 PCA, turned from a deficit o f about 5 percent o f GDP in2004 into a surplus of 3.5 percent
 o f GDP in 2007, despite a major increase o f capital spending in 2007. The tax reform
 package adopted by the Torrijos Administration in 2005, including the parametric changes
 contained in the pension reform, i s the most important contributing factor. The recent
 increases in the revenue-to-GDP ratio are also explained by higher fiscal transfers from the
 PCA, more effective tax collection efforts and some extraordinary events.' The positive
 fiscal results along with the strong economy have been reflected in a significant reduction
 in the public debt from a peak of 62.2 percent of GDP in 2004 to 45.7 percent of GDP in
 2007. The improved fiscal position contributed to a Standard & Poors upgrade o f
 Panama's long-term foreign and local currency issuer default ratings from `"'BB'' to
 "BB+", while Fitch affirmed Panama's rating at "BB+" and revised the rating outlook to
 Positive.

 11.     Panama has traditionally runa current account deficit, which reached 8.0 percent in
2007 after a temporary decline in the two previous years. Export services related to the
 canal, ports, tourism and re-exports i s a sizeable positive item in the current account,
although still not great enough to offset the trade deficit. The current account deficit i s
financed by foreign direct investment - mainly in the financial, commerce and housing
 sectors - averaging more than 9 percent o f GDP annually since 2004.

B. Macroeconomic Outlook and Debt Sustainability

 12.     Before the recent global financial developments, economic growth was projectedto
decelerate to 7.8 percent in 2009 in light o f the ongoing slowdown in the U S economy -
Panama's most important trading partner and the prime user o f the canal. In the medium-
term, growth was expected to converge towards its trend level o f 7.5 percent. The canal
expansion project would give a boost to investment activity, especially in the 2009-11
period, including complementary investments inthe ports and telecoms sectors. This effect
would have been countered by higher oil prices and a likely slowdown in the real estate
boom.

 13.     These projections have been updated as a result o f the global financial crisis. There
are two main channels through which the current global environment can affect Panama.
First, as in other parts o f the world the Panamanian financial sector may suffer the global
credit squeeze, even though so far no evidence along this front has emerged. Second, the
expected global slow down will likely reduce traffic in the Canal and hence affect
economic activity and government revenues. On the other hand, the revised scenario
incorporates lower oil prices projections which are expected to have a positive impact on
Panama. With these elements inmind, growth i s now projected at 5.5 percent in 2009 and
6.5 percent in 2010 before converging towards 7.5 percent in 2011. On the fiscal front, the
expected public deficit o f .3 percent of GDP for 2009 i s now expected to slightly increase
to .7 percent and remain well below 1 percent over 2010-2011, as ependitureswill be kept


                           ~~~




I        Extraordinary events explain approximatelyone percentage point of the increase in the revenue-to-
GDP ratio in 2006 and 2007, including capitalgains tax generatedfrom the HSBC acquisitionof a localbank
in2006 as well as the tender for the duty free concessionat the Tocumen Airport in 2007.



                                                     4

in check in adherence to the recently approved Social and Fiscal Responsibility Law,
which limits the overall public deficit to one percent o f GDP.

 14.      Panama's financial market does not appear to have been significantly affected by
the global financial turbulence so far. Moreover, the authorities have reacted to the global
situation by steppingup their monitoring o f banks' asset quality and liquidity ratios.



                                     Box A. Panama's Financial Sector

Panama's financial sector is an important off shore financial and business center, with financial
intermediationdominated by the bankingsector -the largest in Central America. As of mid 2007, there were
2 state-ownedbanks, 41 general license banks, 34 internationallicense banks and 11 licensedrepresentation-
offices. The consolidated assets of the banking system represent around 250 percent o f Panama's GDP.
Recent mergers and acquisitions have increasedthe role of international conglomerates,such as HSBC, and
the share of bank assets owned by foreign banks is close to 60 percent. The net loan portfolio to assets ratio
stands at 60 percent. Domestic capital markets are comparable in terms of market capitalizationto countries
of similar size. Financial intermediation services played an important role in Panama's recent economic
boom, contributingaround9 percent of2007 GDP.

The bankingsystem soundness indicators are strong, despite some liquidity ratio fluctuations due to the rapid
consumer and housing lending growth. Liquidity is central as there is no formal lender of last resort or
deposit insurance. Asset quality is relativelyhigh with non-performingloans constituting 1.4 percent of total
loans and a ratio of provisionto nonperformingloans of around 130 percent (March 2008). The rapid credit
growth (with net credit growing around 18 percent in 2007) could be of concern as it may mask problems in
the banks' credit origination, monitoring and risk appraisal. The recent consolidation of the regional and
domestic banking market also raises exposure to cross-border supervisory concerns, which may require
stronger collaborationand informationsharing among supervisors. Bank supervision exhibits a high degree
o f compliance with the Basel Core Principles reflectinggenerally satisfactory implementation combinedwith
an adequate legal and regulatory foundation (according to the 2006 FSSRA). Improvements are needed on
non-bank financial supervision, the institutional framework for insurance and securities and anti-money
launderingpractices.

The exposure of Panama's financial sector to troubledUS institutions is limited, amounting to less than 0.1
percent of total bankingsector assets according to the Banking Superintendence. The exposure to US sub-
prime mortgages is also low. The deep and well-capitalized financial system mitigates the risk of lending
growth being derailed by global market turmoil as most bank lending is financed by deposits. Nevertheless,
the unpredictabilityof the global financial crisis continuesto carry substantial risks.

The ongoing construction boom, another important growth driver, may represent a potential source of
domestically generatedrisk. Construction activity, growing at 33 percent in the second quarter of 2008, is
driven by a range of public and private infrastructure investments, includingthe canal expansion project. An
important component, however, is the booming real estate market driven partly by foreign demand from
retirees seeking a second home. Housing bubbles are hardto predict, but the burstingof such bubbles in the
US, UK, Spain and elsewhere, raises the spotlight on Panama. A mitigating factor of a potential price fall
and its wider financial sector implications is the institutional arrangement whereby mortgage payments are
deducted directly from the pay check of formal sector workers.

The Panamanian authorities recently made a request to conduct a Financial Sector Assessment Program
(FSAP).


15.      Foodprice inflation i s expected to decline as global food prices level off after 2008.
Headline inflation will decline only gradually due to wage pressures arising from a tight
labor market and the impact o f food inflation on non-tradable goods. The current account
deficit will widen due to capital and other imports related to the canal expansion, but will



                                                        5

contract again once this project nears its end. Public sector revenue collection will remain
strong over the projection period, but will nevertheless decline relative to prior years which
benefited from some extraordinary inflows.

16.     A debt sustainability analysis carried out in early 2006 under fairly conservative
medium-termgrowth projections had concluded that Panama's consolidated public debt,
which stood at 58.3 percent o f GDP at the end of 2005 (down from 62.2 percent in 2004),
would be sustainable (in the sense o f placing the public debt ratio on a steadily declining
trajectory) as long as the government i s able to maintain a primary fiscal surplus of 1.6
percent o f GDP. Under the current macroeconomic settings, with growth well above the 4
percent used in baseline simulations and with the primary surplus well above 1 percent,
Panama's debt ratios are projected to continue declining at much faster rates than
previously anticipated. The limits on public deficits and debt introduced by the Social
Fiscal Responsibility Law are expected to further strengthendebt sustainability.

17.     These positive views are shared by IMF staff, whose latest projections (Article IV
consultation report presented to the Board on July, 28th, 2008) suggest that public debt
would fall to 32.7 percent of GDP in 2010 and to 26.4 ercent by 2013. Even when using
the most comprehensive measure of public debt:                       the IMF concludes that debt
sustainability is not a concern. Thus, given Panama's positive growth outlook and the
strong indications that its public debt is on a steadily declining trajectory, the country's
overall macroeconomic framework can be considered adequate for the purposes o f the
proposed operation and conducive to achieving its objectives.

                       111.       THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

18.     President Torrijos assumed office in September 2004 with a strong political
mandate that gave his party's coalition a majority in the Legislative Assembly. In early
2005, the GOP launched its ambitious medium-term development strategy (Strategic
Vision), which gives renewed attention to poverty reduction and reinvigorates the
structural reform program initiated during the 1990s. This comprehensive development
program encompasses policies aimed at reducing poverty and improving the income
distribution, fostering economic growth and employment creation, reorganizing public
finances, developing human capital, and modernizing the state.

19.     In the context of this strategic vision, the GOP has taken some major steps to
strengthen the overall foundations for sustained broad-based economic growth, including
the passage during 2005 of the fiscal reform package and the politically difficult pension
reform, together with measures to increase fiscal transparency,                       improve budget
managementand modernize public procurement. The above reforms were supported by the
Bank through the PFIDPL and the First C&PFM DPL and can be considered important
steps toward the objectives of restoring fiscal sustainability and further improving public
financial management. The proposed DPL would support the GOP's continued progress
towards these objectives. The principal issues and government plans with respect to these
areas are discussed further below in some depth as they form the background to the
specific actions supported by the DPL series inthe area o f public financial management.


2       A debt sustainability analysis of total NFPS debt (including PCA debt) was conductedby the IMF.


                                                     6

20.       Another important Government action, toward the objective o f increasing broad-
based economic growth, was the negotiation o f a free trade agreement with the United
States3 To maximize the benefits o f this and other FTAs, diversify Panama's sources o f
growth and increase productivity, actions will be needed to address key constraints to
private sector competitiveness. In this context, the GOP is implementing a so-called
"complementary agenda" o f reforms, aimed at enhancing competitiveness and taking
advantage o f the opportunities offered by Panama's increasing degree o f trade integrati~n.~
This policy agenda includes actions aimed at improving the efficiency and transparency o f
the State as a facilitator o f private investmentsby means o f reducing bureaucratic redtape,
improving human capital through vocational and entrepreneurshiptraining programs and
promoting increases in private sector productivity by fostering technology adoption and
innovation. The proposed DPL would continue to support progress toward these
competitiveness-enhancing objectives, which are critical for increasing the productivity o f
Panamanian businesses. The main issues in each o f these areas and the corresponding
Government plans are described further below, as background for the specific actions
supported by this DPL series inthe area o f competitiveness enhancing policies.

                 ~~                                         ~~




    Box B. GOP Strategic Vision of Economic and Employment DevelopmentToward 2009
 T h e Strategic Vision is comprised of five pillars:
  Pillar I Reduce Poverty and Income Inequality encompasses four dimensions: stimulate growth
           -
 and expand employment opportunities, especially for youth; build human capital of the poor; pioneer
 a flagship conditional cash transfer program (Red de Opor&ittmihdes) which brings together efforts to
 improve education, health, nutrition and basic infrastructure access, targeting the poorest areas; and
 invest in productive activities in rural areas, including land tenure security
 Pillar I1 Foster Economic Growth and Employment focuses on efforts to open the economy to
            -
 international competition and promote export-led growth, including through free trade agreements,
 development o f export infrastructure (roads, ports, etc.), removal of distortions and unfair sector
 incentives, and targeted complementary investments in Canal expansion, irrigation, and urban
 transport.
 Pillar I11        -Reform Public Finance includes actions to reduce public debt, achieve fiscal
 sustainability and modernize public financial management, including fiscal and pension reform,
 measures to improve the accuracy and transparency of national accounting systems, modernization of
 procurement and tax administration, and improvements in budget management.
 Pillar IV Develop Human Capital seeks to improve the competitiveness of Panama's labor force
             -
 and reduce inequality through investments in education and health. Initiatives wlll support national
 curriculum reform, expanded coverage of preschool and secondary education, effective worker
 training, preventative and occupational health programs, and expanded health, water, and sanitation
 infrastructure in rural and indigenous areas.
 Pillar V Reform and Modernize the State supports activities to help the public sector and public
           -
 institutions become better fachtators of countrywide development. Measures wdl be taken to reduce
 corruption, improve private participation in infrastructure, increase competition in the electricity and
 transDort sectors. and foster decentralization of service-deliverv.



3         The agreement was signed in June 2007 but i s still to be ratified by the U.S. Congress.
4         In September 2006, through the Cabinet Decree 37, the GOP created the Council o f Ministers for
the Complementary Agenda and Competitiveness ("Consejo de Ministros para la Agenda Complementaria y
la Competitividad") to develop policies and programs for improving Panama's competitiveness in order to
take advantage o f opportunities derived from increased market access. The council is composed o f the
Ministers o f Trade and Industry, Economy and Finance, Agriculture, Foreign Affairs and Labor.



                                                      7

21.       The GOP is taking other major steps in the context o f its Strategic Vision to foster
broad-based growth but they are not elaborated here in detail as they lie beyond the scope
o f the proposed DPL series. They include, notably, the expansion o f the Panama Canal to
accommodate larger ships, and the launch in 2006 o f a conditional cash transfer (CCT)
program, "Red de Oportunidades." The Canal expansion project, which received
overwhelming support in an October 2006 referendum, should help strengthen Panama's
comparative advantage in the traditionally dynamic service sectors associated with the
Canal. In parallel, the GOP i s seeking to increase private participation in various major
infrastructure projects inthe ports, urban transport, sewerage, and power sectors. As for the
CCT program, supported by the Bank and the IADB through investment operations, it is
expected to improve the targeting o f social assistance, increase the poverty impact o f social
expenditures and allow more Panamanians to benefit from the country's favorable growth
performance. Finally, in the context o f the trade-complementary and competitiveness
enhancing reform agenda, the GOP is working with the IADB in the modernization o f the
agencies incharge o f implementinginternationaltrade agreements, as well as on the design
o f temporary financing and technical assistance mechanisms to support the adjustment o f
private enterprises directly affected by FTAs.

22.       The DPL series was prepared in close dialogue with Panamanian authorities and in
line with the CPS. The series supports specific components o f the Government program,
which i s the outcome o f national democratic policymaking processes. Indeed, in addition
to democratic elections -which indicate public preferences for the policy platforms o f
parties and candidates- the GOP makes use o f various means o f consultation to develop
reforms and reach agreement. Recent examples include the multi-party negotiations
undertaken to conclude the pension reform, the national referendum on the Panama Canal
and the National Dialogue for Development.' The consultations done for the CPS, o f
which the DPL series i s an integral part, stressed messages contained in the DPL program,
particularly: (i)the importance o f promoting broad-based economic growth and
competitiveness as a way to reduce poverty and promote employment creation; (ii)the
importance o f strengthening the effectiveness o f key public institutions, including
supporting reforms and initiatives to promote the establishment o f more modern and
transparent public financial management systems; and (iii)the role played by
improvements in the efficiency and transparency o f Government spending both in
enhancing the delivery o f social services and inimproving the investmentclimate.

A. The CompetitivenessProgram

23.       Panama's main challenges inenhancing the competitiveness o f its private sector are
related to the improvement o f public sector governance and regulatory frameworks, and to
the human capital and innovation policy agenda. These are the areas that offer the largest
potential payoffs in terms o f increasing the productivity o f Panamanian businesses by
means o f closing the country's gaps with respect to international best practices. Indeed,
Panama's shortcomings with respect to other emerging countries appear larger in those two

5          The main goal ofthis national dialogue-the "Concertacidn Nacional Para el Desarollo" -has
beenthat of prioritizing the use of additional revenuesto be generatedby the expansionof the Panama Canal,
in the context of the overarchingobjective of eradicatingpoverty in Panama. The process, facilitated by
UNDP, has hadthe participation of representatives from Governmentand a wide range of civil society and
private sector organizations.The Government's programs on Economic Growth and Competitiveness,Fiscal
Stability, and Institutional Strengtheningwere amongthe focal areas discussedby the working groups.


                                                      8

areas, relative to those o f infrastructure and access to finance, in which Panama's
performance i s closer to that o f OECD countries than to the average for the Latin America
Region (LAC). The World Economic Forum (WEF), for example, rates the quality o f
Panama's infrastructure above the average for LAC. Moreover, domestic credit to the
private sector as a fraction o f GDP i s about three times as high in Panama than in the rest
o f Latin America. In contrast, the World Bank's Doing Business reports indicate that in
Panama the procedures to comply with tax and labor regulations and those needed to
enforce contracts are more burdensome, while levels o f regulatory non-compliance and
informality are higher than in the rest o f L A C and the OECD. Moreover, according to
WEF and Transparency International the incidence of corruption in Panama is similar to
that found inthe rest o f Latin America, which inturn lags considerably behindthe OECD.

24.       The GOP, however, is addressing the above challenges through a number of policy
actions. In the area o f tax administration, the Government expects to increase tax
performance by means o f improved filing, audit and collection procedures, which should
translate into an increased enforcement o f tax regulations but also facilitate tax
compliance. These reforms are described in more detail further below in the context o f the
Government's public sector financial management program supported by this DPL. With
regard to the impact o f labor regulations on labor market outcomes, as described below the
GOP i s emphasizing actions aimed at improving the skills o f the labor force, so as to
increase labor productivity and contribute to reducing the incidence o f informal
employment. Inthe area o f contract enforcement, with support from the IADB, UNDP and
bilateral aid agencies, the GOP i s implementing an ambitious program o f reform o f the
justice system aimed at increasing its independence, transparency and efficiency. This
judicial reform program, coupled to other policy actions to increase public sector
transparency and efficiency by modernizing the Government's financial management
system i s expected to help reduce the incidence o f corruption and create further incentives
for regulatory compliance.

25.       In order to boost private sector competitiveness it is also critical that Panama
advances its international standing inthe areas o f human capital and innovation. Especially
outside the modern service sector, Panamanian firms tend to invest less in workers'
training and in innovation than do their counterparts from other emerging countries.
Moreover, in comparison with the rest o f Latin America, Panama currently invests less in
research and development (R&D) activities as a percent o f GDP, and employs fewer
researchers as a share o f the population. Reducing these gaps i s important both for
facilitating the diversification o f Panama's sources o f growth inthe wake o f the country's
FTAs and for taking advantage of new investmentopportunities associated with the Canal
expansion project and other significant infrastructure projects in stages o f planning or
execution.

26.       In particular, the continued development of non-traditional exports is already
requiring increased investmentsin technology adoption and innovation. These are needed
to promote increases in productivity and competitiveness, taking advantage o f Panama's
climatic conditions and its expanded access to international markets. Similarly,
improvements in the skills o f the labor force are a necessity to support the rapid growth o f
the tourism and construction sectors. Finally, an expanded pool o f highly qualified workers
i s critical to continue attracting foreign direct investment into service activities with higher




                                                 9

technological content, which benefit from the transportation and telecommunications
infrastructure available inthe Canal area.

27.      The GOP has recognized these challenges and, as described further below, it has
begun implementing ambitious reform programs to modernize both its worker training and
innovation policies. In the case o f training, the ongoing reforms are expected to allow for
the supply o f training services to respond more closely to current and emerging needs in
the labor market, particularly in light o f the canal expansion and other investmentprojects
in the pipeline. In the area of innovation, the Government has introduced efficient and
transparent mechanisms to finance, through matching grant funds, both public and private
investments in R&D and innovation. It has also expanded scholarship programs aimed at
creating a critical mass o f local researchers. The modernization o f the technological
infrastructure o f IFARHU (Human Resources Institute) - under the responsibility o f the
SPIG - i s a project which objective i s to improve the effectiveness and efficiency o f the
activities beingexecuted inrelation with scholarships, grants, and loans.

28.      The Government program in the areas of training and innovation should help
Panama close its current gaps in education and technology and boost the long-term
productivity o f its private sector. Moreover, these policies should be complementary to the
GOP's efforts to improve the coverage and quality o f education. Indeed, improvements in
the formal educational system will probably take time to have a notable effect on the
schooling o f the labor force, and will likely have a limitedimpact on current generations o f
Panamanian workers. Moreover, improvements in the quality o f tertiary education will be
directly linked to the development o f the country's own scientific and technological
capacity, and to the development o f a critical mass o f well trained researchers and
university professors. The approval on December 14th, 2007 o f Law #56 establishing a
National Research System i s a significant step forward in achieving the intendedgoals.

29.      As noted above, a primary focus of the GOP's competitiveness enhancing policy
agenda is its program to reduce the time and cost required for completing various
bureaucratic procedures, both for facilitating private sector development and for increasing
public sector transparency and efficiency. This program i s an integral part o f the
Government's agenda to continue developing electronic government - e.g. including
through reforms in public procurement and tax administration, as described below. It
should be highlighted that through the Panama Tramita portal and links, the GOP has been
able to reduce as o f August 2008, 241 bureaucratic transactions that were either
consolidated or eliminated altogether, with a positive impact o f time and costs for business
and individuals.

30.      The GOP is placing a large emphasis on measures aimed at eliminating excessive
bureaucratic red tape as an important avenue for increasing the transparency and efficiency
o f the public sector, as well as for reducing transaction costs and increasing the
competitiveness o f private companies. Inparticular, the GOP i s streamlining Government
procedures and has been putting on-line those transactions that are most critical for the


6        Examples includethe establishment in Panamaof regional headquartersof multinational
corporations, whichthe Government is promotingthrough a streamlined tax, migrationand regulatory
framework, and the development of new value-addedservices linkedto the country's transformation into a
regionallogistics hub, rangingfrom shipyardsto aircraftmaintenancecenters.



                                                   10

enterprise sector and the population in general. The GOP's program to reduce excessive
bureaucratic red tape has been led by the "Secretariat o f the Presidency for Governmental
Innovation" (SPIG), with technical support provided by the Governments of Chile and
Korea, as well as through the Bank's Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance project.
As a first critical step, SPIG has prepared a detailed inventory of bureaucratic procedures
in all Government institutions, including detailed data on the requirements to be met by
users, hours o f operation, costs, etc. In this context, a key action has been the launch, in
May 2006, o f an internet portal - "Panama Tramita" - that provides all the above
information. This portal has made significant progress aiming at becoming a digital one-
stop shop for different transactional and informational interaction between government
entities, private sector enterprises, and public in general.

3 1.     Ina second stage of the reform process, SPIG is gradually incorporating the option
o f completing selected procedures on-line. By June 2008, "Panama Tramita" already
allowed for completing 81 different types o f on-line transactions. In this respect, an
important milestone was the passage o f Law 5 o f January 2007, which was implementedin
July 2007 through the launch o f a new internet portal - "Panama Emprende" - that allows
for the on-line registration o f most firms. This reform i s likely to place Panama among the
countries with the most simplified and efficient procedures for starting new businesses.
 "Panamarket ",an integrated system for management of information and statistics related
to foreign trade, i s another relevant project being developed by SPIG. It aims at being a
one-stop digital window for entities/companies/individualsinvolved in foreign trade and to
provide best public services for investors, exporters, and importers. It will complement
Panama Tramita and Panama Compra and is being developed on the basis of intensive
consulting work done jointly with Compite Panama.

32.      It is important to note that inorder to establish the administrative procedures to be
prioritized during this reform process SPIG has performed consultations with various civil
society, private sector and government organizations represented at the National
Competitiveness Center. A higher priority has beengivento those procedures that are more
frequently used and for which administrative improvements such as the elimination o f
unnecessary steps or the possibility o f completing the corresponding transactions on-line,
would be expected to have a larger impact on the enterprise sector or the general
population. The issuance and certification o f "Paz y Salvo ",the electronic access toforms
needed for transactional processes, the information being published inthe Gaceta Oficial,
the on-line processing of passports, the establishment of companies, the participation of
bidding/offering process for the needo f the government, the on-line reporting o f suspicious
activities related to the management of public funds, and a status-tracking system for
processes being dealt with by Contraloria General de la Republica among others, are the
result o fthose efforts.

33.      It is worth noting that Panama already performs relatively well, in an international
perspective, in terms o f the burdens created by excessive bureaucratic red tape. According
to Doing Business 2009, Panama ranks 8th among 181 countries regarding ease o f trade.
Maintaining excellence in this area i s seen as a priority for strengthening the country's
comparative advantages in internationally integrated service activities - e.g. linked to the
Canal and Panama's International Banking Center - for which low transaction costs are
critical. In other words, by implementing among the most efficient procedures for
registering new businesses and trading across borders, the GOP expects not only to


                                               11

increase public sector transparency and stimulate regulatory compliance, but also to further
increase the country's attractiveness as an international logistics hub and financial center.

34.      There are important synergies between the GOP's program to reduce red tape and
its actions to foster the development of electronic commerce. The latter i s important
because it should contribute to increase domestic competition and thus promote private
sector competitiveness. Synergies between the development o f electronic government and
that o f electronic commerce are related to the fact that some o f the technical developments
and regulatory changes needed to allow businesses to transact electronically with the
Government can also facilitate on-line transactions betweenprivate parties. Most notably,
establishing a modem regulatory framework to govern the use o f electronic signatures i s
key both for facilitating on-line transactions involving government agencies - e.g. related
to electronic procurement, online export and import procedures, etc. - and for fostering the
development o f electronic commerce. Inthis respect, inconsultations with various relevant
stakeholders, including representatives o f the private sector, and with the cooperation o f
the South Korean government, the GOP approved Law # 51 of Firma Digital on July 22,
2008.

35.      The GOP has recently made important efforts to modernize its policy and
institutional framework in the area o f worker training. These reforms should contribute to
Panama's international competitiveness by upgrading the skills o f the workforce and
consequently increasing labor productivity. In particular, the new framework should allow
the public and private supply of training services to respond more closely to changing
private sector and labor market needs. These include the expected increase in the demand
for semi-skilled and skilled labor resulting from investments associated with the canal
expansion project and the FTA with the U.S.There are several projects - both in analytical
and execution stages - relevant to the achievement o f these goals, like a System o f Virtual
Training and cooperation agreements with private sector entities such as SFERE
(gastronomy, tourism, hotels), SERTV (audiovisual technology for film industry), COPA
AIRLINES (airline industry), ODEBRECHT (construction industry),and others.

36.      Through its Decree Law 8 o f February 2006, the Government set a new framework
for promoting and strengtheningthe supply o f training services. Decree Law 8 established
that national training policies need to be formulated and implemented under the principles
o f pertinence to the needs o f the private sector and the labor market, diversity o f public and
private supply, efficiency, transparency and accountability. The Law also mentions the
need to respect the principles o f equity and social inclusion, mandating the need for
training policies to offer opportunities for workers and entrepreneurs at all levels and in all
sectors o f the economy, with a special emphasis on those affected by poverty,
unemployment and informality.

37.      The new framework gave a leadership role to a restructured National Training
Institute ("Instituto Nacional de Formacidn Professional y Capacitacidn para el
Desarrollo Humano,'' INADEH), which was put in charge of the design and
implementation o f national training policies, and i s governed by a Board where the
Government, employers and workers have equal representation. Some o f the key
responsibilities attributed to INADEH are the implementation o f new systems for the
evaluation and accreditation o f public and private providers, and for the certification o f
workers participating in competency-based training. To fund the implementation o f the


                                                12

new training policy, the Government has consolidated all public training resources in a
new National Fiduciary Training Fund, to be managed by INADEH. So far, INADEH's
overall budget has been increased from about $8 million in2005, to $10.5 million in2006,
$88 million in 2007, and $9lmillion in 2008, with the bulk of the increase allocated to the
upgrading and rehabilitationo f infrastructure and equipment.

38.      After the establishment of INADEH's tripartite governing Board and the
appointment o f a General Director - who was confirmed unanimously by the National
Assembly - a first key action was the launch, in October 2006, of the National Plan of
Technical Training. This Plan i s aimed at providing short term training courses to 200,000
workers in selected priority areas which were determined on the basis of public
consultations, and include tourism, construction, agriculture, transport and other services.
By December 2007, 182,723 workers had already been trained inthe context of this Plan,
which represents a significant increase with respect to the 42,000 workers that were trained
by INADEHduring 2006. INADEH expects to have trained more that 200,000 workers by
the end of2008.

39.      Inthe context of INADEH's quality assurance program, the institution has already
performed - as o f December 2007 - preliminary external evaluations of 117 private
trainingproviders under the supervision o f the National Commission o f Quality Assurance
which was created by Decree Law 8. INADEH has also launched a plan to re-design
curricula and rehabilitate physical spaces in public sector training centers, keeping a
critical role in the provision o f courses to the most disadvantaged segments of the
population.

40.      With regard to the development of a competency-based training system, INADEH
i s collaborating with a bipartite non-governmental organization governed by labor and
private sector representatives - the Labor Foundation ("Fundacion del Trabajo"). Building
upon the experience developed by this Foundation through a pilot program financed by
IADB, INADEHhas completed the norms for the issuance of competency standards for a
total o f 23 certifications covering selected occupations from strategic sectors o f the
economy - among others - tourism, construction, and agro-industry.

41,      Inorder to fulfill its responsibilitiesunder the framework created by Decree Law 8,
INADEH has established various other partnerships with public and private sector
organizations. With the National Canal Authority, for example, INADEH has signed an
agreement to train workers for the Canal expansion project. In this context, 400 heavy
machinery operators were trained and internationally certified. INADEH has also
established a partnershipwith the National Competitiveness Center (CNC), to identify the
most pressing private sector needs in the area of training and create mechanisms to
facilitate the labor market insertion o f training graduates. Finally, a key action taken by
INADEHin2007 is the signingof a cooperation agreementwith the Ministryo f Education
(MINEDUC) to establish mechanisms for better articulating Panama's training and formal
educational systems - e.g. to create better options for graduates o f training courses to
reenter formal educational programs. In particular, INADEH's National Plan of Technical
Training i s being implemented to a large extent using MINEDUC's secondary technical
education centers. Moreover, INADEH has nearly completed investments for US$17.6
million in the improvement of the infrastructure (fundamentally equipment)of those




                                                13

centers, to be used both for worker training and formal technical education programs. (See
Box on INADEH'sprojects related with training and capacity buildingprojects.)'

42.       InDecember 2005 the GOP issued its National Strategic Planfor the Development
of Science, Technology and Innovation 2006-2010, which was based on consultations, by
means o f thematic and transversal working groups, with representatives from government,
academia and the private sector. The Plan aims at accelerating productivity growth and
enhancing competitiveness by increasing Panama's relatively low investments in
innovation and expanding the country's human resources involved in research and
development (R&D) activities. The Plan recognizes that the State has an important role to
play infinancing public investmentsinR&D - e.g. in universities and research centers - as
these allow for developing human resources and a physical infrastructure that are critical
for facilitating private sector investmentsin innovation, including those aimed at absorbing
knowledge generated abroad which is especially important for a small open economy such
as Panama. The Plan also argues for an active role o f the State in co-financing private
sector investments in innovation and promoting cooperative projects involving private
firms together with local or foreign research institutions.

43.       Among the most critical actions contemplated in the Plan i s the expansion o f
matching grant funds to finance R&D and private sector innovation projects, and o f ,
scholarship programs aimed at increasing the number o f local researchers. The Plan
emphasizes the use o f transparent technical evaluation mechanisms for selecting R&D and
innovation projects subject to public financing. Similarly, merit based mechanisms are
used for selecting the beneficiaries of scholarship programs. The proposed matching grants
for R&D and innovation are similar to successful programs implementedin Chile, Mexico
and Costa Rica, as well as inother regions o f the world - e.g. Finland.             *

44.       Another key aspect o f the Plan i s the creation o f a National Research System
which establishes monetary incentives aimed at strengthening the country's principal
research centers and at increasing the number and the quality o f professionals dedicated to
research and development activities. On 14thDecember 2007, the Law #56 was approved,
establishing the National Research System (Sistema de Investigacion Nacional), later
regulated by SENACYT. The mechanisms to promote research activities that are
incorporated in the legislation are similar to those already implemented in Argentina,
Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Brazil. The funds to be destinedto the new system would be
allocated using transparent technical evaluation mechanisms similar to those used for
selecting the R&D and innovation projects financed through matching grants.
Complementing the above actions and with the objective o f strengthening Panama's
human resources for R&D, the Plan also includes efforts to attract top Panamanian and
foreign researchers to the country by means o f offering temporary research grants, as well
as a program to improve the teaching o f sciences in schools, in cooperation with the



7         The new technical training and educationalfacilities cover the areas of construction, welding,
electricity and mechanics.The 22 centers in which they are locatedare distributed across Panama's nine
provinces.
8         The allocation of public resourcesbasedon scientific merit as evaluatedby expert peer reviewers
was incorporatedin the new Public ProcurementLaw (Law 22). Matching grant programs such as those
proposedin the Planhave beenconsideredbest practicesby World Bank analyses- e.g. Maloney and Peny
(2005), pp. 36-37.


                                                    14

Ministry of Education. As o f the end of 2008, the investment in R&D per capita is
expectedto reach $8, up from a real $5.57 at the end o f 2005'.


                 Box C. Training and Capacity BuildingProjects at INADEH

               Project                                   Objectives/Expected Results
 Virtual Education Training
                     /                To establish virtual education to widen the coverage of training
 System                               and education, ensuring access without geographic limitations.
                                      To enhance the quality of training actions making them more
                                      relevant, effective, a n d attractive. 100 connecting points to
                                      intranet dlb e built dedicated to virtual courses, and there will
                                      b e m o r e than 400 virtual training programs. I t i s expected that
                                       125,000 people working in productive sectors will b e trained
                                      annually.
 Training Cooperation                 To train Panamanian human resources that dbe required by
 Agreement                             the establishment in Panama of a G l o b a l Service Center for
                                      Hewlett Packard in order to take advantage of the jobs created
                                      by this Center, and to convey an positive message to
                                      comorations and investors worldwide about the business
                                          I
                                      opportunities available in Panama
 Agreement for Cooperation and To enhance quantitatively and qualitatively INADEH's offer of
 TechnicalAssistance INADEH- training and capacity building.In cooperation with APATEL,
 SFERE (Gastronomy, Hotel,            AMP, and SFERE, 30,000 local people will be trained in 12
 and Tourism)                          soecialtv areas in the next 3 vears.
 Agreement for Cooperation and To promote the development of human talent, generate
 Technical Assistance INADEH. exchanges and transfer of knowledge and technology. Programs
 SERTV                                and projects for the technical training of professionals for
                                      cinematography a n d audiovisual industries.
 Agreement for Cooperation and To promote the development of human talent and professional
 Technical Assistance for             training for the aviation industry.INADEHwill train students ir
 professionaland labor training       classrooms and flight simulators, a n d COPA A I R L I N E S will b e
                                      incharge of the formation of pilots.
 Agreement for Cooperation for        To exchange and mobilize experts for the establishment of
 professionaland labor training       capacity buildng programs for the construction industry.
 INADEH-ODEBRECHT S.A.
 InformationTechnologies              To provide qualified labor needed for information and
 Excellence Center INDIA-             communication technologies. Training of teaching professionals,
 PANAMA                               provision of equipment and tools, and install capacity to train
                                      m o r e than 600 technical personnel per annum during 2 years.
 Training of technical                To train more than 20,000 people per annum from the most
 professional for Programs            vulnerable segments of population in order to help them to
 related with the Social              improve social, economic, and environmental aspects of their
 Protection Network                   c o m m u n ities.
 Specialized Center for the           To provide technical training to productive sectors and
 Management of the                    regulatory agencies in matters related to clean production,
 Environment                          reforestation, and the protection and conservation of the
                                      environment
 Special Projects related to          To create, equip, and develop a Center for Renewable Energies
 Renewable Sources of Energy          (CER - Centro- de Energias Renovables) to provide an answer tc
                                      the needs of professional training in this sector, and to promote
                                      de development renewable energy sources in Panama.


9       Both figures excluding the Smithsonian Institute.



                                                      15

45.     The implementation o f the Plan has been assigned to the National Secretariat for
Science, Technology and Innovation (SENACYT), under the supervision of an Inter-
Ministerial Council. SENACYT established the Reglamento del Sistema de Investigacion
Nacional in order to regulate the application o f the law creating the National Research
System. To enable SENACYT to execute its responsibilities accordingly, the GOP has
significantly increased the budget allocation for SENACYT's activities, from about $1 M.
to $14 M between 2005 and 2007. This support from GOP to SENACYT's activities is
continuing and 2008 budget allocation i s $22 M (a 57% increase from the previous year).
As of 18 July 2008, approximately 87% of the yearly budget has been executed and/or
committed. For specific R&D and Innovation activities, the 2008 budget has assigned
$10,637,000. SENACYT funded R&D and Innovations projects with matching grants for
$5,723,000 in 2007, and $3,514,000 inthe first semester o f 2008.

46.     Given that investments in science and technology have a long maturation process
and since SENACYT's matching grant and scholarship programs were introduced fairly
recently, it i s too early to assess the impact o f these programs. However, SENACYT
estimates that most, if not all, the projects supported under the innovation program will
generate technological innovations in the form o f new products, new services, or
significant improvements in existing products or services. Nine (9) projects on Innovation
and 24 projects on R&D have been completed as o f June 2008. These have generated 13
Research Articles, 4 Chapter books, 4 registered/patented products, (and 1 non-registered),
12 pieces o f "grey" literature and/or non-certified products, 9 thesis, and 36 research
results for diffusioddistribution purposes.

B. The Public FinancialManagement Program

47.     As noted earlier, addressing challenges in public financial management (PFM) will
help to enhance the environment for investment and business development. It will also
contribute to sustaining fiscal discipline and increasing the impact o f public spending. To
support that endeavor, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank recently
completed a Country Financial Accountability and Procurement Assessment Report
(CFAAKPAR, FY07), which looked into the performance o f PFM systems (see Box D),

48.      Two pillars (reform o f public finance and modernization o f the State) o f the GOP's
Strategic Vision lay out the key areas o f PFM strengthening and transparency. The
Government's program to regain fiscal stability consists, among other measures, o f (i)the
rationalization o f public expenditures, including avoiding unnecessary expenses, with
transparent, effective and efficient public procurement and contracting mechanisms, (ii)tax
reform geared to capturing more resources through a fairer tax structure and a more
effective tax administration; (iii)improved management o f the budgetary system geared to
achieve more productive investments,(iv) provision o f accurate fiscal information through
transparent accounting standards and responsible management o f accounts payable. The
State reform and modernization area includes actions in various fronts, including (i)
ensuring transparency and eradicating corruption from the public sector, and (ii)
redesigning the government's functions by eliminating obsolete activities, simplifying and
reducing bureaucratic dealings, and modernizing administration through improved staff
professional training.



                                              16

49.      The CFAA/CPAR provides a comprehensive view o f the status o f public financial
management systems and institutions in Panama. The following paragraphs, in turn,
present information on selected aspects o f the GOP's reform program that are directly
related to the proposed DPL operation.


                                   Box D. Public FinancialManagement
The performance of public financial management (PFM) systems including public procurement is a critical
factor for fiscal discipline, strategic allocation, operationalefficiency and transparency in use of public finds.
The Bank's 2007 Country Financial Accountability and Procurement Assessment Report (CFAAKPAR)
concludes that the PFM system in Panama possessesa number of strengths that contributeto fiscal discipline
control, such as legal powers to contain budgeted expenditures, timely monitoring of budget execution data
and cash flows, centralization of revenues, and adequate debt management. However, as implied by the
Government strategy, certain key institutionalissues require and are also now gettingattention.

With respectto the fiscally sustainable strategic allocationof resources,the initiativesunderway to develop a
medium-termbudget framework should continue, with particular emphasis on the operational and transparent
reconciliation of the "top-down'' fiscal framework and the "bottom-up" budgeting process (i.e,, costed
strategic plans with aligned investment programs), and on better control of in-year budget modificationsto
enhance the credibility of the original budget as the maintool for policy implementation.

In terms of operational efficiency, government procurement could be optimized under the framework of a
comprehensive public procurement strategy comprising, among others, cost reduction strategies (price
benchmarking, consolidation for economies of scale) and more efficient procedures (including basic tools
such as standard documents, manuals and guidelines). The Government is actively moving in that direction
with the aid of a recently approved modem legal procurement framework. On the other hand, transactional
controls (both ex-ante fiscal control and the entities' own procedures) could be streamlined and applied on
the basis of risk management considerations, and complemented by strengthening external audit capacity.
The Office of the Controller's General (CGR) is paying increasingattention to modernization of ex-ante and
ex-post controls as central pieces to its multi-annual strategic plan. The Ministry of Finance, in turn, is
strengtheningtreasury and informationsystems to reducepayment arrears.

Concrete actions have been taken recently to enhance transparency of public finances, such as the increase in
information that is made publicly available and the legal protection given to rights of access to that
information. These are good foundations to continue improvingpublic financial information, with a view to
reaching convergence with international practice, in areas such as tax and payment arrears, quality of
financial statements, and coverage of financial audits. Progress has also been made with the operation of the
electronic procurement system (Panamacompra), which, under the adoption of a strategic plan to complete
its development and implementation, will help ensure a smoothtransitionto an electronic public procurement
marketplace


Consolidatingfiscal reform through improved revenue and debtpolicy and management

50.      As noted earlier, the fiscal package implementedin 2005 with the approval of the
Fiscal Equity Law (Law 6, February 2005) and its implementation rules (October 2005),
contributed -along with other key factors- to relevant outcomes, such as generating fiscal
surpluses and reducing the consolidated public debt. The fiscal correction helped to set the
ground for other medium-term efforts on the administrative side, both for revenue and debt
management,

5 1.     Tax administration. During this decade, MEF's General Revenue Directorate
(DGI) has increasingly enhanced the operation of tax information systems with a view o f
facilitating taxpayer compliance and assessment, objectives that aim at both reducing
private sector transaction costs and incrementing efficiency inthe collection o f government
revenues. As a result o f these efforts, in 2007 the fraction o f income tax declarations



                                                         17

presentedon-line increased to 19 percent for persons (up from 6 percent the previous year)
and 33 percent for firms (up from 16 percent the year before). The overall number of tax
returns increased 10.5 percent for persons and 5.75 percent for firms in 2007. That same
year, the estimated average time spent preparing, filing and paying taxes, while still high,
suffered a significant decrease from 560 to 482 hours, in accordance with the Doing
Business report. Looking ahead, and building upon the early successful experiences with
on-line tax declaration, the DGI intendsto foster and increase on-line tax payments.

52.     Inthe audit and investigation front, the DGI adopted a new tax audit strategy under
an organized framework that differentiates selective, sectorial, and massive audit
approaches in response to coverage and cost targets. The implementation tools and
correlated skills for more effective audit planning and execution are being built, with early
successes already shown by the new Massive Audit Unit program. DGI's overall
modernization program, supported by IADB, comprises other activities under six areas o f
work: enhancing institutional planning and management, implementing effective controls
to combat tax evasion, strengthening information technology resources, improving
institutional communication policies, promoting improvements in staff training, taxpayer
services, and operational capacity, and strengthening internal controls.

53.     Debt management. Recent Bank analyses suggest that in general, and particularly
in comparison with other developing countries, the debt management capacity of MEF's
Public Credit Directorate (DCP) i s high. With a view o f sustaining progress made and
expanding its potential, the DCP plans to develop in the short term a formal debt
management strategy formulated on the basis o f ongoing detailed costhisk scenario
analyses. The DCP has rightly approached development o f the strategy as a knowledge
and learning process that will enhance its debt management skills in the short term, as
foundation for longer term outcomes in the reduction o f risks and costs o f public debt. The
Bank is providing technical supportto the DCP on this critical process.

54.     Inanother important process, thejoint program between MEF and CGR to improve
debt management governance arrangements is at the final stages o f implementation. The
most significant outcome o f the program, expected before the end of 2008, will be the
consolidation o f debt management responsibilities in the MEF with the transfer o f debt
servicing which i s still handledby the CGR.
           -

Enhancingfiscal transparencyandfinancial managementgovernance

55.     Fiscal transparency. Both the MEF and the CGR issue on a timely basis relevant
fiscal information and make it available through public means such as the internet. In a
healthy step towards the improvement o f governance arrangements, the function of
consolidating budget and accounting records was transferred effective January 2007 from
the CGR (who audits the financial statements) to the MEF.

56.     A significant step towards increased fiscal stability and transparency was taken
with the recent approval o f the Social and Fiscal Responsibility Law (Law No. 34 o f June
5, 2008). The Law intends to ensure that fiscal accounts remain under control, establishing
limits to annual deficits (one percent of GDP) and debt (40 percent of GDP after a period
o f declining trajectory). The Law also contains important fiscal transparency provisions,



                                              18

such as clearer definitions to the components o f fiscal accounts, and the requirements to
prepare and publish the medium-term fiscal framework, sector strategies, a multi-annual
financial and public investmentprogram, and periodic reports on compliance with the Law,
including a specific report on accounts payable.

57.     Work is underway in the MEF, together with the sector ministries, to review the
balance o f payables in order to provide more accurate accumulated data for fiscal
reporting. In the meantime, the MEF remains committed to restricting payment arrears,
thus providing more certainty for the private sector in its business transactions with the
State. Accordingly, the average number o f days to process payments to providers has been
reduced significantly from 175 days in 2004 to 71 days in 2007.

58.      Fiscal oversight. The CGR i s aware o f the constraints imposed by the ex-ante
fiscal control system, and has accordingly issued guidelines and verification checklists,
which aim at an orderly and consistent application o f the ex-ante reviews. The document
tracking and management system (SIGUEME) intends to enhance accountability and
performance through the measurement o f transaction times within CGR, such as payment
endorsements. When the monthly systematic measurements started in September 2006, 68
percent o f documents were processed under 15 days. In April 2008, the same ratio was
over 97 percent. Other worthy initiatives are the project o f electronic endorsements (e-
Fiscaliza) to help reduce the physical transfer o f documentation, and the system o f public
works control (COBE) to enhance monitoring o f civil works contracts. In the medium
term, it would be advisable for the CGR to design a risk-based framework for a more
selective and efficient application o f ex-ante fiscal controls.

59.     The CGR also plans to strengthen its ex-post audit capacity by developing
methodologies and building skills for the application o f risk assessment and quality
standards for audit planning and execution, in line with international good practice. This
critical process i s being aided through the initial use o f computer-assisted audit techniques
(CAATs), which have now been used in nine central government audit engagements
involving databases with large numbers o f transactions. Also, the first phase o f the
Government Auditing Integrated System (SIAG), i.e. the planning module, was recently
completed. However, the CGR still has to address certain hardware shortages to make
more extensive use o f CAATs.


Improving expenditureefficiency and transparencythroughpublic procurement reform

60.     Public procurement represents an important share o f total government expenditure
and, accordingly, the GOP has prioritized procurement reform to streamline public
administration and increase the efficiency o f public spending. Highlights under this
administration include the development o f a procurement reform strategy, the
implementation o f a new Procurement Law, reform o f the Public Procurement Directorate
(DGCP), and strong support for e-procurement.

61.     Regulatory framework. Under the Public Procurement Law (Law 22 o f June 27
2006) and the swift approval o f its Regulations (Executive Decree No. 366 o f December
28), several improvements were introduced: (i)elimination o f parallel frameworks
applicable to several agencies (with exception o f the Social Security Institute (CSS), the



                                               19

Panama Canal Authority (ACP) and municipal entities), which in the past hampered the
application o f a consistent public procurement system; (ii)creation of an autonomous
DGCP, as the entity responsible for the interpretation o f the law; and (iii)establishment o f
several procedures and systems for promoting efficiency, economy and transparency.
These procedures and systems included: (a) a framework for cost reduction strategies
(consolidation for economies o f scale), (b) an independent administrative tribunal to
review and decide on procurement-related protests and complains, and (c) a sound
framework for the implementation o f an e-procurement system. The roll-out o f the new
regulations was accompanied with a strong training program.

62.     Electronic procurement. The new e-procurement system (PanamaCompra) was
released in October 2005 with the objective o f promoting transparency and competition in
public procurement. As o f early 2007, public procurement processes in all the central
government and a number o f decentralized entities were already taking place through the
system. As of June 2008, more than 100,000 procurement acts were awarded through
PanamaCompra (from 20,000 as o f June 2007) and the number of participant bidders was
of 11,000 (from 4,000 as o f June 2007), thus benefiting the development o f enterprises of
different size and nature. It is also important to note that as of 2008 the Bank's projects in
Panama are also publishingtheir procurement notices in Panamacompra.

63.     Cost savings. The DGCP has recently implementedinnovative public procurement
consolidation processes (framework contracts) for the provision o f common use goods and
services for the central government that, in the past, were procured in a fragmented
manner. Up to date, six framework contracts have been completed for procurement of
vehicles, tires/lubricants/batteries, computer equipment, internet service, office supplies,
and cleaning service. According to information by the DGCP, significant savings have
been achieved against market prices for most procured items, e.g. 36 percent in computer
equipment, 14 percent in office supplies and 13 percent in vehicles. Another important
saving is in transaction cost, since now all entities access the framework catalogue for the
cited items through a purchase order, instead o f conducting separate procurement
processes. Finally, value added benefits include enhanced agreements for service and
maintenance. Building upon the experience with the framework contracts, the DGCP i s
advised to strengthen the cost-reduction strategies with market studies and price
benchmarking.

64.     Monitoringsystems. The DGCP is one of the first entities worldwide to adopt the
Methodology for Assessment o f National Procurement Systems, developed by the OECD-
DAC/World Bank Joint Venture on Procurement, as a monitoring and evaluation tool on
national procurement reforms. The baseline indicators (BLIs) that deal with the formal and
functional features of the system were measured as of June 2007, showing significant
improvements with regards to the situation in 2004. An update of the indicators will be
undertaken by the end of CY08, forming the basis o f an updateto the national procurement
strategy.




                                             20

              IV.      BANK SUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

A. Link to the CountryPartnershipStrategy
65.        The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) aims to provide selective, demand driven
technical, financial, analytical and capacity building assistance that deepens the Panama-
Bank partnership in support to four objectives which are aligned with the pillars and goals
o f Panama's 2004-2009 Strategic Vision (Table 2). The program i s designedto focus on a
limited number o f interrelated objectives and to make institutional capacity building a
cross-cutting theme. In addition, the program anticipates that there will be a change in
Government on July 1, 2009 and i s set up to help provide the new Government with
information on policy issues as well as access to immediate financial and technical support
to bridge untila new Partnership Strategy i s agreed.

                         Table 2: CPS Program Objectives and Select Areas of Action


                               I                              I                             I
             Pillar I                     Pillar I1                  Pillar I11and V                Pillar IV
    Reduce Poverty a n d           Promote Economic             R e f o r m Public Finances    Develop H u m a n
           Inequality           Growthand Employment            and Modernize the State              Capital

                                 Broad objectives to which the CPS will contribute
  Reducepoveq, e.pehal&                                                                      Imprave health,
  among rctralpoor and          Promote broad-based economic   Establish modern PFM          nutrition, and education
  indigenousgroups              growth                         ytems and institutions        attainment ofthepoor
                                            Selected Progran for Support
       Poverty monitoring           Reduce costs for                 Fiscal sustainability         Water and
       & social assistance          doing business and               Financial                     sanitation
       targeting/ administra        improve competition              management                    coverage for
       tion                         through streamlined              systems and fiscal            the rural poor
       Red de Oport`tmidzdes        procedures and on-               transparency                  Supply of
       program                      line processing                  Comprehensive                 integrated

       L a n d tenure security      Market-oriented                  public procurement            package of
       a n d access for the         worker training                  reform                        basic health
       rural poor                   Technical                        Efficiency and                and nutrition

       Competitiveness of           innovation support               effectiveness of              services

       small-scale rural            M o r e efficient urban          fiscal oversight              Qualityand

       producers, including         transport in Panama             Debt management                coverage of
       access to rural              City including mass              and debt market               preschool,

       finance                      transit for the urban           development                    basic and

       Sustainable use of          poor                             Tax administration             secondary

       the Atlantic                Sustainable tourism                                             education

       Mesoamerican                 outside Panama City
      Biological Corridor
                                                                                            I
                                                  Cross-cuttin themes
 Strengthen instttuuonal capacity in Government enuties execuung Bank-fmanced projects to plan m o r e
 strategically through improved monitoring, to execute projects effecuvely through m o r e efficient pubhc
 financial management systems and practlces and to strengthen project sustainabhty.

 Plan for and engage through the national Government transitlon with analysis and offers of financial and
 technical support.




                                                        21

66.    The proposed CPS lending envelope of $390-465 million over FY08-10 aims at a
balanced program with about 40 to 50 percent o f new lending to be channeled through the
programmatic DevelopmentPolicy Loan series, and the remainder devoted to new poverty-
focused investment projects and one new policy reform technical assistance loan. Each
annual DPL supports staged progress in the form o f prior actions towards medium-term
program outcomes related to two CPS objectives: promoting broad-based economic
growth by means o f measures designed to enhance Panama's competitiveness, and
establishing modern public financial management systems and institutions (Table 2
highlightsthe CPS areas directly connectedto the DPL Program).

B. Collaborationwith the IMF,Other Bank Operations,and Other Donors

67.    The Bank's country team has been collaborating with the IMF in the review of
macroeconomic developments, (Annex 3),         lo Reports on the Observance o f Standards and
Codes (ROSC) and Bank analytical work. The proposed DPL program i s consistent with
the IMF's policy advice regarding fiscal responsibility, tax policy and administration, as
well as competitiveness enhancing policies associated with improvements in the business
climate.

68.    Comprehensive multilateral aid for Panama has been provided by the IADB, the
Bank and UNDP, followed by more modest and targeted support from bilateral aid
agencies. In terms o f lending and technical assistance operations, the Bank and the IADB
are supporting several complementary areas o f the GOP's development strategy. Thus, the
Bank's Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project (Annex 4) and an IADB loan to
Strengthen and Modernize Economic and Fiscal Management provide support to most o f
the Government initiatives aiming to improve fiscal transparency and public financial
management. In addition, the DPL series i s complementary to a policy-based loan (PBL)
that was approved by the IADB in February 2006 and a technical cooperation loan
approved by the IADB in July 2006 to support investment climate and trade-related
reforms. In general, as part of the consultations for preparation o f the CPS, the Bank and
IADB went through the CPS program to identify areas of potential synergy and agreed on
collaboration approaches inboth lendingand non-lending activities.

C. LessonsLearned

69.    The Implementation Completion and Results Report for the PFIDPL (ICR,
December 2007) identifies three main lessons learned that remain relevant and are fully
incorporated into the design o f the C&PFM DPL Program:


0   The PFIDPL successfully incorporated lessons from previous adjustment loans to
    Panama during the 1990s and best practice for well performing middle income
    countries. This included (a) emphasis on upfront action instead o f ex-post
    conditionality, and (b) support o f a reform program instead o f specific conditionality.


0   Ownership of reform is critical for a successful outcome. This suggestion i s not novel,
    but nevertheless deserves emphasis as it is well-illustrated by this operation.        The

10     Panama is on the standard 12-monthArticle IV consultation cycle.


                                                22

      satisfactory outcome o f the PFIDPL is to a large extent a consequence o f government-
      led initiatives. The legal and regulatory framework underpinning reform was initiated
      and developed by the Administration itself, with technical input from the Bank. As the
      ICR review demonstrated, the government made substantial progress even inareas that
      were not supervised by the Bank, such as pension reform. DPL objectives were
      strategically aligned with the government strategy (procurement reform is a good
      example). In the public financial management components, the core DPL objectives
      were linked to the Government's reform and strategy. Two critical entities, the MEF
      and CGR, shared the same objectives to strengthen fiscal transparency, and coordinated
      their complementary efforts to their pursuit.


 0    Strong analytical underpinnings and links to Bank investment lending provide the
      foundation for a well-designed development policy operation. The key pieces o f
      Economic and Sector Work (ESW), the PER and the CFAAKPAR contributed not
      only to the design o f the PFIDPL, but also helped inform the reform efforts o f
      Government and supported a fruitful policy dialogue. In the area o f procurement
      reform, the tracking indicators o f the PFIDPL (as well as the programmatic series)
      relate to specific activities which will be financed under the TA loan.

 70.      The C&PFM DPL series builds on the policy dialogue and World Bank support to
 the Government fiscal consolidation and public financial management reform program
 initiated through the PFIDPL, thus expanding the engagement to medium-term
 programmatic development policy lending. Moreover, the new C&PFM DPL series
 broadens the scope by taking on important challenges to improve the country's
 competitiveness. Finally, by aligning the DPL series with the government's financial
 program, the programmatic approach intends to become a predictable low cost source o f
 financing for the Government.
I                                    Box E. Good Practice Principleson DPLs                                              I
 Principle1: Reinforce Ownership. The operation i s based on the GOP's medium-term development strategy,
 Strategic Vision of E c o n o m i c and Employment Development T o w a r d 2009, w h i c h results from Panama's
 engagement of democratic processes in the development of public policy. T h e DPL, as part of the CPS, responds
 to GOP requests to support specific programs and areas which reflect the outcome of national policymakmg
 processes. T h e passage of a fiscal reform package, a politically difficult pension reform, and m o d e r n legislation
 for public procurement and fiscal responsiblltty, together with strategic actions taken in the competitiveness and
 public financial management fronts (which form the basis for the programmatic DPL), attest to the
 administration's good track record of policy implementation. T h e DPL program focuses on selected policy areas
 that benefit from broad support, which i s not to say it i s exempt from risks. Rsk mitigating measures have
 therefore been identified. T h e process developed with the GOP to select the focused areas of DPL support
 responds, inlarge part, t o the strong policy dialogue undertaken recently around extensive analytic work.

 Principle 2: Agree up fronr with the government and other financial partners on a coordinated
 accountability framework. T h e Bank's support i s summarized in a brief and focused policy matrix, agreed with
 the GOP, w h i c h provides the accountability framework for the operation. T h e DPL program i s consistent with
 IMF's policy advice, and it supplements and reinforces the Bank's Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance
 Project and I A D B ' s Program to Strengthen and Modernize Economic and Fiscal Management

 Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
 circumstances.The MEF has indcated that it intends to fill its multilateral "budget support" needs through the
 proposed DPL program, complementing the investment lendmg portfolio of other donors and the Bank. T h e
 programmatic series approach, as well as the tentative timing of each operation, was requested by the GOP. T h e
 selected policy areas covered by the DPL program are derived from the GOP's Strategic 'Ikion of Economic




                                                          23

and Employment Development T o w a r d 2009. Accordingly, the specific actions a n d intended outcomes also
enjoy technical a n d political support in their respective sectors. T h e relevance and soundness of said actions have
been assessed through B a n k andytical work a n d follow-up activities.

Principle 4: Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement. The prior
actions form part of a n agreed accountability framework that focuses on GOP's critical actions for achieving the
program objectives, as assessed through B a n k analytic work. Considering that the operation supports two large
GOP programs, the matrix has been limited to the number of actions considered necessary to maintain the
coherence of policy dialogue and benefit from complementarities towards the intended outcomes.

Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based
financial support. The programmatic series approach and the tentative timing of each individual operation
respond to the GOP's stated financial needs. T h e MEF will exercise leadership in coordinadng the monitoring
and evaluation arrangements.        Accordingly, the Bank`s supervision effort will b e documented through semi-
annual reviews, w h i c h will take into account progress made towards the selected outcomes a n d indicators in the
policy matrix.




71.      The lessons learned through the Bank's previous engagement in Panama, as well as
the latest thinking on Development Policy Lending for well performing middle income
countries (see Box E), have influenced the design o f this DPL.

D. Analytical Underpinnings

72.      The focus o f this lending operation is consistent with the CPS objective o f helping
the GOP achieve its development goals by means of providing selective, demand driven
assistance to the main pillars o f the Government's Strategic Vision. As noted above, the
Bank has undertaken several recent studies, including the Panama Country Financing
Accountability and Procurement Assessment Report (CFAAKPAR, FY07), that underscore
the criticality of the key aspects of the Government program supported through the
proposed DPL series.

                                  V.       THE PROPOSED OPERATION

A. OperationDescription

73.      The proposed Second C&PFM DPL i s the final in the programmatic series o f two
annual single-tranche operations. The second DPL would be in the amount o f US$lOO
million. The interrelated development objectives of the DPL program are to promote
broad-based growth through the enhancement of private sector competitiveness and to
consolidate fiscal sustainability and public sector transparency and efficiency through the
modernization o f public financial management systems. The proposed program supports
selective and critical actions in two major areas: (i)enhancement o f competitiveness
through red tape reduction, improved training policies and increased investments in
innovation; and (ii)modernization of public financial management through enhancements
in revenue and debt management, fiscal transparency and governance, and public
procurement. The actions supported by the DPL series have been assessed through the
Bank's analytical work and, as noted elsewhere in the document and in the Government's
Letter o f Development Policy (Annex 1)' they form an integral part of the Government's
economic and social development plan and the Bank's CPS.




                                                           24

74.     The DPL series supports outcomes that could be attained by December 3 1, 2008,
reflecting achievements through the final full fiscal year o f the current administration. The
series provides continued support toward the medium-term objectives included in the
PFIDPL. The programmatic framework was explained in Section I11and i s summarized in
the matrix inAnnex 2.




                                           25

     e




e




e    e    I

I-
N

-s
m

0
a,
Y
m
5e,




5
b
0
Y

D
3

75.      Policy actions. The key aspects of the Government program to be supported
through the Second C&PFM DPL are presentedin Table 3, with a comparison against the
original triggers for the second DPL (as laid out in the first DPL document). As the table
shows, the DPL program remains on track, with solid progress in the two areas of the
agenda. And, while most original triggers are to be fully met or surpassed, in a single case
a substitute prior action that i s equal to or exceeds the policy impact of the trigger
originally proposed was specified regarding the substitution of issuance of government
standard bidding documents (SBDs) with framework contracts. The adoption of framework
contracts i s a de facto standardizationprocess, as goods are procured from a predetermined
list using a standard purchase order, leading to a higher level of transparency whilst at the
same time removing discretionality from the purchasing process. The new prior action is
deemed by the GOP and the Bank team to exceed the impact of the original trigger
because, as explained earlier, framework contracts significantly generate both price and
transaction cost savings, while standard bidding documents are mostly concerned with the
latter. Inany case, the GOP will address SBDs in a future stage of the procurement reform
program with Bank's technical assistance lending support. In general, the set of prior
actions continuesto support the original development objectives of the DPL Program.

76.      Intended medium term outcomes. The measures supported by the proposed DPL
series represent important steps toward achieving medium-term objectives of selected
components of the Government program. The intended end-of-series outcomes resulting
from the DPL Program, which are consistent with the CPS outcomes, are presented in
Table 4, together with the corresponding indicators to be measured. As noted, significant
progresshas beenmade towards achieving the outcomes expected for end-2008.

                     Table 4: Expected Program Outcomesand Indicators




  Reduced time to comply     Increased coverage of the Panama        T h e GOP has focused on
  with government             Tramitainternet portal (200 on-line   consolidating or eluninating
  regulations.               transactions made available by e n d   administrative processes, rather than
                             2008, up from 75 inJune 2007).         simply digitalizing all existing
                                                                    processes, consequently reducing the
                                                                    digitalization target to 90 on-line
                                                                    transactions by end 2008. .4s of
                                                                    .August 2008, 81 different types of
                                                                    on-line transactions were available
                                                                    through the Panama Tramita portal
                                                                    and links, and 241 transactions have
                                                                    been consolidated or eliminated.
                                                                    Addtionally, related n e w projects
                                                                    have been started: a) SPIG's
                                                                    "Panamarket", w h i c h will eventually
                                                                    integrate all existing online processes
                                                                    into one portal,    b) AhP's new
                                                                    registration process for cargo shps, c)
                                                                    MICI's digitalization of consults and
                                                                    transactions on Patents & Intellectual
                                                                    Property, and d) the SDMC (Sistema




                                                 29

                                                                      de Declaracion de Movimiento
                                                                      Comercial) within the Colon Free
                                                                      Trade Zone), to facilitate information
                                                                      exchange between Customs, banks,
                                                                      trade companies, freight-forwarders
                                                                      and public sector entities, as well as
                                                                      the tracking of containers and goods
                                                                      ingeneral.

                           Reduced costs of Doing Btlsiness in        According to Doing Business 2009,
                           Panama as measured by the WB               time needed to start a business was
                           through end 2008 (time needed to           reduced from 1 9 to 13 days, and time
                           start a business reduced from 1 9 to       for exportingwas reduced from 16 to
                           5 days, time for exporting reduced         9 days.
                           from 16 to 12 days).


Expanded worker training   Increase in the yearly n u m b e r of      A s of December 2007, 182,723
programs adapted to        workers that complete training             workers from the private sector h a d
emerging labor market      courses funded by INADEH,from              completed training, in a d h t i o n to
needs.                     42,000 in2006 to 200,000 in2008.           79,375 from the public sector.
                                                                      INADEHwillhave trained more
                                                                      than 200,000 private sector workers
                                                                      by the end of 2008.


                           Training programs for certifying           INADEHhas developed certification
                           labor competencies offered b y             norms for 23 occupations. See above
                           accrehted providers for at least 9         for training and capacity bddmg
                           occupations from the sectors of            projects that INADEHpresently is
                           hotels and tourism, construction,          executing.
                           manufacturing and agro-industry.


Increased investments in   Increase inPanama's per capita             According to n e w px-Smithsonian
R&D and innovation.        R&D from $11.8 in 2005 to $20 in           data provide by S E N A C Y T ,    the
                           2008 (excluding the Smithsonian            actual the investment per capita was
                           Institution).                              $6.79 as of 2006 (up from $5.57 in
                                                                      ZOOS), and it i s expected to b e $8 b y
                                                                      the end of 2008). S E N A C Y T has
                                                                      explained that the data used to
                                                                      establish the Base L i n e was obtamed
                                                                      from published SENACYT's
                                                                      indicators that included the
                                                                      Smithsonian Institution.


                           Increase in the number of full time        Official statistics are not yet available
                           researchers inPanama, from 312 in          at the time of preparing this
                           2005 to 410 in 2008 (excluding the         operation. A s of August 2008,
                           Smithsonian Institution).                  SENACYT's data shows that at least
                                                                      115 full-tlme researchers have been
                                                                     incorporated after 2005.


                           Increase in the share of R&D             e Official statistics are not yet available
                           personnel with master or PhD.             at the time of preparing this
                           degrees, from 23.5% in 2005 to            operation. F A R H U - S E N A C Y T
                           33.3% in 2008 (excluding the               scholarshp programs have benefited
                           Smithsonian Institution).                 285 Panamanians (177 P h D s and 108



                                                30

                                                                             Masters), of w h i c h 5 4 have already
                                                                             returned to Panama. A sirmlar
                                                                             scholarship program managed by
                                                                             MEFhas benefited 80 individuals.




  I m p r o v e d debt               Total consolidated N F P S debt         Fully met. NFPS debt was 46% of
  sustainability    .                reduced to 54% of GDP or less.    12    GDPm 2007.

  Enhanced performance of            Progress inPEFA indicator No. 14.       On trajectory to be m e t through the
  tax administration                                                         recent implementationof a n e w tax
  resulting from improved                                                    audit program.
  f h g , a u d t and collection
  procedures.                        Reduction inDoing Business sub-         Fullymet. DB 2008 indicates that
                                     indcators for the time spent filing     time spent paying taxes decreased
                                     and ~ a v i n etaxes.                   from 560 to 482 hours in 2007.
  I m p r o v e d capacity to        Formal debt management strategy         On trajectory to be met The
  manage debt.                       and a consolidated system for public    underlymg scenano analyses are
                                     debt management in the MEF.             already underway, the approved debt
                                                                             management strategy wdl b e issued m
                                                                             the first quarter of CYO9, and the
                                                                             process to transfer debt semce
                                                                             responsibllities from CGR to LEF is
                                                                             about to f m s h
  Public availability of             Progress inPEFA indicators Nos. 6,      On trajectory to bet met when the
  medium-term fiscal                 12, or 25.                              fiscal transparency reqmrements
  framework and fiscal                                                       mtroduced by the Social Fiscal
  information, closer to                                                     Responsibllity L a w are implemented
  international standards.
  Reduced payment arrears.           Reduction in average No. of days to     Fully met. T h e average was of 71 days
                                     process payments to providers, to at    in2007.
                                     most 90 days.13
  Increased efficiency of            -It least 90% of documents are          Fully met. InApril 2008, the ratio was
  internal controls.                 processed by the CGR under 15           of 97%.
                                     days.
  I m p r o v e d capacity to        Use of CAATs in at least five a u d t   Fully met. As of M a y 2008, C.IATs
  conduct audts.                     engagements.                            h a d been used m m e central
                                                                             government a u d t engagements.
  I m p r o v e d participation of   Increments in participant enterprises   Fully met. A s ofJune 2008, the
  enterprises in public            inPanamaCompra to at least 10,000         n u m b e r of bidders exceeded 11,000.
  procurement.                       bidders.
  Increased savings in               Savings of at least 10% in unit cost    Fullymet. For most procured items
  publicly procured goods           of key items against market prices.      under framework contracts, savings
  and services and                                                           have reached 36% in computer
  reduction of transaction                                                   equipment, 14% in office supplies
  costs.                                                                     and 13% in vehcles.



12           This is a Governmenttarget that is supportedby the actions recognized under the DPLseries.
Evidently,there are other macroeconomic factors that will influence the decline of the debt-to-GDP ratio, as
well as some risksdiscussedin SectionVI (Part F).
13           While the outcome remains valid, the measurement indicatororiginally proposedinthe First
C&PFM document ("outstanding accruals do not surpass 10% of central government expenditures") has been
changed to an indicatormonitoredby the Government of equal or larger relevance.



                                                           31

  Improvedpublic                 Progressin OECD/DXC BLI              On trajectory to be met through the
  procurement                               14
                                 indicators.                          ongoingimplementationof the
  management.                                                         Drocurementreform.


77.     To help measure performance in the area o f competitiveness enhancing policies the
DPL Program will take advantage o f the following data sources:

    0   The Doing Business reports produced by the World Bank;
    0   Ad-hoc reports to be prepared by SPGI and INADEH, and SENACYT.
    0   SENACYT's annual report on Indicators of Scientijk and Technological Activities.

78.     To help measure performance in public financial management, the DPL Program
adopts international frameworks o f reference, as follows:

    the Public Financial Management Performance Measurement Framework developed by
    the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) group, an international
    partnership including, among others, the World Bank and the IMF;

0   the sound practice benchmarks documented in the "Guidelines for Public Debt
    Management" by the World Bank and the IMF; and
0   the Baseline Indicators (BLI) Tool included in the Methodology for Assessment of
    National Procurement Systems developed by the OECD-DAC/World Bank Joint
    Venture on Procurement.

79.     Expected Benefits. As noted, the actions supported by the DPL program are
expected to benefit Panama by contributing to macroeconomic stability, increasing
economic growth through improvements in competitiveness, and enhancing the impact o f
Government programs through strengthened public financial management. These outcomes
should contribute to building investor confidence and improve the foundations for
sustainedbroad-based growth.

80.     The DPL series is also expected to help Panama obtain better financial terms for its
public borrowings and diversify its external sources o f finance. Indeed, while Panama i s a
creditworthy country with access to world capital markets, the terms and conditions on
IBRD loans tend to be better than the terms that are currently available to Panama in
private financial markets. Access to IBRD finance, therefore, would help reduce Panama's
debt servicing burden. Moreover, the proposed DPL series would help diversify Panama's
sources o f finance and thus reduce the potential volatility o f changing financial market
conditions.




14      While the outcome remains valid, the measurement indicator originally proposedinthe First
C&PFM document ("issuance of standardbiddingdocuments") has been changedto an indicatormonitored
by the Government of equal or larger relevance.



                                                 32

                       VI.      OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

A. Poverty and Social Impacts

81.      The specific actions supported by this DPL are not expected to have direct
significant distributional or social consequences. In2008, the Government o f Panama, with
technical assistance from the World Bank, carried out the fieldwork for a Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS). The data analysis, which will result in an update o f the
poverty figures, i s currently in its final stages and the results are expected to be announced
before the end o f 2008. The actions supported by this operation are expected to help
strengthen the microeconomic and good governance foundations for sustained broad-based
economic growth in Panama. Thus, through its effects on growth, the program could have
positive spillover effects on poverty reduction that would emerge over the long term, as the
economy expands in response to increased private sector competitiveness and improved
public financial management. Thus the policy actions supported by the proposed DPL are a
critical component o f a broader Government program which has, among its core
objectives, the significant reduction o f poverty in Panama. In other words, the DPL series
i s an important complement to on-going and planned investment projects that are directly
targetedat nearer-term gains inpoverty reduction. Inparticular, with Bank support through
other components o f the CPS, the GOP i s implementing actions to improve the targeting o f
social expenditures, including by means o f a Conditional Cash Transfer program that i s
intended to increase access to education and other social services among the poor.
Moreover, the Bank i s also committed to support the Government's efforts to promote
sustainable and broad-based rural development by means o f investment projects in the
areas o f land administration, rural productivity and microfinance.

B. EnvironmentalAspects

82.      Specific actions supported by this DPL are not expected to have significant effects
on the environment, forests or other natural resources. It i s worth noting, in any case, that
the Bank i s currently supporting the GOP through the preparation o f a strategic Country
Environmental Analysis (CEA), with the objective o f helping to strengthen Panama's
national institutional capacity to identify and address overall environmental policy and
regulatory issues.

C. Implementation,Monitoring and Evaluation

83.      The Ministry o f Economy and Finance (MEF) i s                   responsible for the
implementation o f the DPL series as well as for coordinating the actions among the
concerned line agencies and decentralized institutions, especially the Presidential
Secretariat of Government Innovation (SPIG), the National Training Institute (INADEH),
the National Secretariat for Science, Technology and Innovation (SENACYT), the Office
o f the Controller General (CGR), and the General Public Procurement Directorate
(DGCP). Together with MEF, these institutions collect the necessary data to assess
implementation progress and reporting it to the Bank, both with regard to the relevant
actions o f the Government's program and in terms o f the goals and monitoring indicators
o f the program. As noted earlier, certain international frameworks o f reference will be used
to help measure achievement o f intended DPL outcomes.


                                                33

84.      Semi-annual reviews will take place betweenthe MEF and the Bank Team, aimed
at identifying areas o f strengths and weaknesses, and possible assistance needed to
maintain momentum toward the planned medium-term outcomes and address possible
downside risks.A mid-termreview will be made inthe context o f the CPS Progress Report
preparation, when the Government and the team will jointly evaluate progress towards
achieving the outcomes laid out for the DPL program and the CPS at large.

D. Fiduciary Aspects

85.     In general, the public financial management and public procurement systems are
adequate for this operation. As noted earlier, the Bank recently prepared a CFAA/CPAR to
document the current state o f public financial management in the country, including the
actions taken by the current administration to further increase transparency. While
challenges remain -hence the DPL focus-, the Government i s moving ahead to further
strengthen its public fiduciary control framework, as described previously in Section I11
(part B). In connection to this process, the Bank i s engaged in policy dialogue with the
Government to follow up on priorities identified in the CFAAICPAR. Drawing from this
work, and as i s made evident in Section IV and the policy matrix in Annex 2, the DPL
program supports key actions to continue strengtheningpublic financial management.

E. Disbursements

86.     The Bank would make the single loan disbursement to the MEF's Treasury Single
Account. Since this account centralizes government revenues for financing of government
spending, upon its deposit the DPL disbursement will become available to finance
budgeted expenditures. The account i s denominated in US Dollar, which has legal tender
inthe country, and is held inthe National Bank of Panama (BNP),which is the financial
agent o f government. Based on the review of external audit reports and the experience with
special accounts for investment lending, nothing came to the attention of the Bank that
would indicate that the banking control environment into which the loan proceeds will
flow is other than adeq~ate.'~    Upon the Bank's request, the MEF would provide the Bank
with a written confirmation of the described transaction. No additional fiduciary
arrangements (e.g. dedicated accounts subject to audit) are deemed necessary for this DPL.

F. Risksand RiskMitigation

87.     The staged approach of stepped up partnership with Panama, building from an
Interim Strategy (FY06-07) to a full CPS (FY08-IO), and from a stand-alone DPL
operation to this programmatic series, has facilitated the tailoring o f program commitments
to evolving developments while reducing risk. Panama i s in a stronger macroeconomic
position than it was when the I S N was agreed, and the political situation has also proved
conducive to advancing on policy reforms in line with the administration's Strategic
Vision. In addition, the majority o f activities proposed in the CPS, including the present


15       An unqualified ("clean") audit opinion was issued by external auditors on BNP's financial
statements as of December 31, 2007, which was prepared in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards.




                                                34

DPL series, have a strong foundation in on-going policy dialogue supported by extensive
analytical work.

88.      The program, however, is subject to three main risks: economic, political and
institutional capacity.

89.      Economic. On the economic front, the main risks would derive from the global
financial crisis and more specifically from a deep and prolonged global deceleration. As
discussed previously, even though Panama i s still expected to display robust growth in
2009 and beyond, the current global situation i s expected to negatively impact the country
as credit to the private sector may become tighter, foreign direct investment growth
decelerate, Canal traffic decline, and US demand for Panamanian products weaken. While
these factors have already been taken into account in the design o f the program and in the
projections developed for the medium-term, to the extent that the global slowdown lasts
longer or i s deeper than anticipated, the government may find some difficulties
implementingits program.

90.      The Bank is supporting the Government inthe analysis of economic challenges and
possible actions, including discussions about prospective additional financial assistance.
Per Bank policy, the proposed DPL can only go forward in the context o f an appropriate
macroeconomic framework.

91.      Political: The current Administration will complete its term o f office on June 30,
2009. Under Panama's Constitution, the president may not be elected to a consecutive
term. Traditionally, new administrations have upon taking office made substantial changes
within the civil service, especially in line ministries. These staffing changes can make an
orderly transition challenging and can be disruptive to the sustainability o f on-going
programs, including those supported by the DPL series. The Bank is, o f course, a small
actor in this process. As recommended by QAG, the Bank will support the transition by
preparing a set o f policy notes to provide presidential candidates with an additional source
o f information about development challenges and on-going policies and programs. In
addition, the Bank will coordinate with the new administration on training needs and will
continue to support implementation o f the fiscal responsibility and public procurement
regulations. All inall, the visibility and inherent benefits achieved through competitiveness
and PFM reforms would make it difficult to back track.

92.      Institutional capacity. Giventraditional limitations in the capacity o f public sector
institutions, including civil servants' comfort in maintaining the status quo, the GOP's
drive to sustain the reform agenda may be slowed down. Despite these capacity
constraints, a number o f champions o f reform showing already a good track record -with
critical support from authorities- have been identified. The Bank i s strongly supporting
through policy advice and technical assistance these leaders. In the process, synergies
betweenthe policy agenda supported by the DPL and the investmentlending operations by
the Bank and partners have been identified and are being exploited. This effort will be
complemented by the GOP's own mechanisms to raise awareness o f the issues to be
addressedand potential impact o f reforms.




                                               35

                                    ANNEXES

             ANNEX 1. LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY




November 7,2008
DdCP/UCSPI997

Mr. Robert Zoellick
President
World Bank
Washington, DC

Ref.: Letterof Development Policy Competitivenessand Public FinancialManagement
                                 -

Dear Mr. Zoellick,

This letter summarizes in a selective manner critical aspects of our prwram to
develop competitiveness and public financial management, which is an integral
part of our Government's overall development strategy as presented in the
Strategic Visionof Economic & Employment Development Toward 2000.

1.      Fiscal and MactoaconomicPolicy

Upontaking office, this administration faced serious immediate and medium-term
financial problems, such as a high level of indebtedness, an unsustainablefiscal
deficit, negative current public saving, and serious problems in respect of the
finances of the Social Security Fund (CSSf.We found that the deficit of the Non-
financial Public Sector (NFPS) rose from B/. 623 million in 2003 to 61. 691 million
in 2004, representing nearly 5 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in both
years. These conditions, together will? the deterioration in the finances of the
CSS, jeopardized the financial sustainability of the state and had a negative
impact on country risk. The lack of transparency in the management of the fiscal
accounts aggravated the situation.

We therefore implemented a number of actions.

The increasesin tax revenues have beenthe combined result of the tax reform of
2005, the strong growth of economic activity and more effective tax collection
efforts. The positivefiscal results have been reflected in a reduction in the public
debt ratio to GDP from a peak of 70 percent of GDP in 2004 to less than 53
percent of GDP in 2007, already surpassing the goal initially established for
2009.



                                         36

 The goal of the administrationareto continuethe gradual reductionof public debt
 ratio to GDP to achieve greater public savings in order to finance the investment
 program, to have a tax system with greater elasticity and equity, and to foster
 broad-basedeconomic growth by increasingPanama's competitiveness.

 Our muntry's economy has responded adequately. GDP growth averaged 9.0
 percent during 2005-2007 and reached around 11.5 percent in 2007, These
 grawth levels have stemmed primarily from the external sector, through the
 strong increase in sewices exports, for example in banking, tourism and ports.
 There have also been significant domestic growth engines such as the
 construction industry and the outlook remains favorable given major investment
 projsts such as the modernization of the Canal. Moreover, there has been a
 reduction in the open unemployment index, which declined from 7.6 percent in
 2005 to 4,7 percent in 2007. Still, we are monitoring closely the global financial
 crisis and its possibleeffects on the Panamanianeconomy.

 An improved legal framework compatible with the goals of debt reduction and the
 maintenance of fiscal stability was achieved through the passage of the Fiscal
 and Social Responsibility Law, The law establishes limits to annual deficits (one
 percent of EDP) and net debt (40 percent of GDP after a period of declining
trajectory) and addresses qualitative issues relatingto fiscal transparency.

 II.    Key CompetitivenessEnhancementActiorns

 Reducing transaction costs for businesses remains a priority. We had already
launched an Internet portal "Panama Trarnita" to facilitate the completion of
selected procedures on-line, and passed Law 5 ("Panama mprende'? to allow
tor the online registrationof most firms. More recently, we have designed a new
system to permit on-line completion of export and import procedures (`Ventanilla
Unica DigMizaday, and the Electronic Signature Law was passed to facilitate
electronic wrnmem and othertransactions.

We continue to increase our investments in human capital through advanced
training and heprovision of relevant skills. Through Decree Law 8 of February
2006, we had already set a new framework for promoting and strengthening the
supply of training services. National training policies were formulated and
implementedaccordingto the needs of the privatesector and labor markets, with
the National Training Institute (INADEH) assuming a leadership role in the
process. More recently, INADEH has appmved labor competency standards for
key occupations.

Important efforts persist to support research & development and innovation. In
December 2005, we issued a Nationaf Strategic Plan for the Development of
Science, Technology and Innovation 2006-2010. We had already introduced
matching grants funds to foster both public and private investments in R&D and
innovation and expandedscholarship programs aimed at creating a critical mass




                                        37

 of researchers. In accordance with the strategic plan, more recently a National
 ResearchSystem Law was passedto strengthenthe country's principal research
 centers and increasethe numberand quality of researchers in Panama.

 111.   Key Public Financial Management ModernizationActions

We are enhancing our tax administration and debt management systems. In
terms of tax administration, the Revenue Directorate (DGI) had already
 undertaken significant efforts to foster on-line presentation of income taxes and
adopted a new tax audit strategy (fiscalizacicin)under an organized framework
that differentiates approaches in response to coverage and cost targets. On the
debt management front, the Public Credit Directorate (DCP) has recently
 implemented modern cost and risk scenario analysis to serve as basis for future
public debt strategies.

Simitarfy, we continue to strengthen fiscal transparency. With the objective of
improving governance arrangements, the fundion of consolidating government
financial statements had already been transferred from the Controller's General
Office (CGR, who continues to audit the financial information)to the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MEF). As mentioned above, the recent approval of the
Fiscal and Social Responsibility Law is a significant rnilt3stone to consolidate
fiscaldiscipline and improveourfiscaltransparencyand planningsystems.

The CGR also remains committed to a more efficient and effective public sector
operation. As part of its effort la improve the ex-anta fiscal control system, the
CGR had already launched a number of technological tools, including the
document tracking and management system (SIGUEME) which intends to
enhance accountability and performance through the measurement and
monitoring of transaction processing times. To complement these efforts, the
CGR also recently has started to strengthen its ex-post audit capacity through
the initialuse of computer-assistedaudit techniques [CAATs).

The public procurement reform continues to improve expenditure efficiency and
transparency. Underthe Public ProcurementLaw (Law 22 of June 27,2006) and
its Regulatjons, the government procurement framework was significantly
enhanced. We had already made possibfe that public procurement processes in
the central governmentand a numberof decentralizedentities take place through
the e-procurement transparency system (PanamaCompra). More recently, the
DGCP has implemented innovative public procurement process (framework
contracts)for the provisionof key services and goads for the central government
that, in the past, were procured in a fragmented manner. The framework
cantracts produce savings while increasing competition, promoting greater
transparency, and increasing the quality of the products and services,
Additionally, with a view of reducing transaction costs and enhancing
procurementtransparency, the DGCP plans to design in the short term standard
biddingdocumentsto be appliedbyall entities subject to LawNo. 22.



                                         38

IV.   Summary

The strategic vision of this administration encompasses a macroeconomic
framework conducive to sustainable development, poverty reduction, and
promotion of trade in conjunction with policy changes supporting fiscal
sustainability, increased public sector efficiency and transparency, and enhanced
private sector competitiveness. To that effect, we have critical programs
underway and welcome the support from the World Bank through the
Competitiveness and Public FinancialManagement DevelopmentPolicy Lending
(DPL)Program*

Accordingly, the Government of the Republic of Panama requests that the
second DPL in the programbe approved.


Sincerelyyours,



Hector-E.Alexander H
Minister




                                      39

e




     0
     d


e




     e    e




              N
             d




     e    e




     e    e

m

               ANNEX 3. FUNDPublic Information Notice(PIN) No. 08/113
                                        August 28,2008

    On July 28,2008, the ExecutiveBoard of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
                  concludedthe 2008 Article IV consultationwith Panama.

                                          Background

The strong economic performance of the last few years continues, despite the deteriorating
global environment. Panama was one of the fastest growing economies in the world in 2007
with real growth risingto 11.2 percent, following an average growth rate of nearly 8 percent
in 2004-06. The large service sector, including the canal, ports, and the Colon Free Zone,
strongly benefited from the regional and international trade expansion. Construction soared,
and the well developed financial center quickly responded to new opportunities and has
attracted significant new investment. At the same time, employment expanded significantly,
leading to a decline in unemployment to an unprecedented low level. Growth in 2008-09 is
projected to slow somewhat, to about 8 percent, with the Canal expansion and related
investment activities partially offsetting the effects of higher oil prices and the slowdown in
the U.S.andthe global economy.

Like inthe rest of the region, inflation has sharply accelerated, reaching almost 9 percent in
May, after averaging about 1% percent in the last twenty years. Although the surge in
inflation i s mainly due to higher global food and fuel prices and distortions in the agricultural
sector, core inflation (excluding food and fuel) i s rising as well reflecting the buoyant
economic growth and the emergence of some capacity constraints.The current account deficit
has also widened significantly as a result of the high level of foreign direct investment and the
strong domestic demand.

The public finances have remarkably strengthened. The overall balance of the nonfinancial
public sector (NFPS), excluding the Panama Canal Authority (PCA), turned from a deficit of
about 5 percent of GDP in2004 into a surplus of 3.5 percent of GDP in2007, despite a major
increase in capital spending in 2007. This improvement was due to structural factors
reflecting fiscal reforms implemented by the government in earlier years, the containment of
current spending, favorable cyclical conditions, a surge in transfers from the PCA, and one-
off revenues.

The fiscal surplus is projected to fall below 1 percent of GDP in 2008 as a result of lower
transfers from the PCA and an increase in expenditures, in part related to the government's
program to partially alleviate the effects of higher food and fuel prices. The Canal expansion
i s shifting into higher gear and remains within budget. The strong fiscal performance
combined with the fast pace of growth has led to a rapid decline in the public debt ratio. A
new Fiscal Responsibility Law (FRL) that sets a deficit limit of 1 percent of GDP for the
NFPS, excluding the PCA, and a debt target of 40 percent of GDP by 2015 was approved by
the National Assembly in early May and should help sustain the improvements in public
finances.

Expansion of the banking sector has been spurred by foreign investment, consolidation, and
regional integration while the ongoing global financial turbulence does not appear to have
impacted the sector or the rest of the economy. Increased scrutiny by the Superintendency of


                                               44

Banks has not uncovered bad assets. Banks' deposit base has continued to increase, and
capital adequacy and financial ratios remain satisfactory. Although there has been a
significant easing o f monetary conditions as a result o f the depreciation o f the U.S.dollar and
lower interest rates, liquidity has been building up moderately and growth o f credit to the
domestic private sector continues to expand in line with nominal GDP.

                                 Executive Board Assessment

Executive Directors commended Panama's remarkable growth performance and improved
public finances. Despite a deteriorating external environment, economic prospects are
favorable, thanks to the Canal expansion project and associated investment, as well as
improvements in competitiveness reflected in expanding export services such as tourism,
communications, and transportation. While the current account deficit i s expected to widen
over the medium term, this should not undermine Panama's external stability, given the
temporary nature o f some o f the factors.

Directors commended the authorities for the strengthening o f the public finances, noting the
remarkable turnaround in the nonfinancial public sector balance excluding the Panama Canal
Authority, notwithstanding a significant increase in capital expenditures. The strong fiscal
performance and rapid economic growth has led to a falling public debt ratio and an
improvement inPanama's credit ratings.

At the same time, Directors pointed out that managing the sharp rise ininflation, which is due
mainly to the higher global food and fuel prices, and the apparent overheating o f the economy
will be particularly challenging and will put a greater burden on fiscal policy to pursue a
countercyclical stance. They encouraged the authorities to pursue such a stance, pointing to
the continued positive output gap, inflationary pressures, and an additional expansionary
stimulus from the weak dollar and low interest rates. This could be done by targeting a larger
surplus, and a few Directors suggested achieving this through a moderation of capital
spending. It would also be important to provide some additional room to expand programs to
support the poor.

Directors welcomed the recent measures to ease the impact o f inflation on less advantaged
income groups, and called for additional measures targeted to help the most vulnerable
members o f society. Directors noted that the extension o f the mortgage subsidy could further
stimulate the already booming construction sector.

Directors welcomed the enactment o f a new Fiscal Responsibility Law (FRL) and the
preparation o f a strengthened legal framework for public private partnerships (PPPs). They
noted that the new FRL should help safeguard the improvements in public finances and
maintain the debt-to-GDP ratio on its downward trajectory. They noted in this regard the
staffs recommendation to set clear rules to govern transfers from the PCA to reduce the risks
o f circumventing the new FRL deficit limits.

Directors observed that Panama's financial market has not been adversely affected by the
global financial turmoil, and commended the authorities for stepping up the monitoring o f
banks' asset quality, liquidity, and risk management. They noted that capital adequacy and
financial ratios remain strong and that the dynamic financial sector is expanding rapidly,
reflecting foreign investment, consolidation, and regional integration. Directors welcomed the


                                              45

enactment o f the new Bank Law, which will strengthen the national supervisory framework
and should help enforce regional supervisory provisions. Nevertheless, Directors stressed the
need for vigilance, in light o f the easing monetary conditions against the background o f a
rapidly growing economy, a booming housing market, and volatile global financial markets.

Directors commended the authorities' effort to reduce trade protection and increase incentives
in the agricultural sector. They noted that although imports and distribution by the
government o f staple food items may have reduced price pressures, removing distortions and
strengthening legal means to address unfair competition would provide a better and more
lasting remedy. Reducing tariffs and increasing tariff rate quotas for selected food items i s a
welcome step to enhance competitiveness and moderate inflation. Directors also observed that
steps to enhance productivity in the agricultural sector, including improved access to
financing, insurance, and technical assistance, will help increase agricultural production over
the mediumterm and will strengthenfood security.




                                             46

      ANNEX 4. THE PUBLIC POLICY REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                             PROJECT
                                      (financedby World Bank)


        This project was approved by the World Bank Board of Executive Directors in FY02. The
objective of the project is to consolidate and deepen the reforms needed to accelerate growth and
reduce poverty, by strengthening the government's economic monitoring and planning, policy
formulation and execution capacity in four areas: (i) promoting trade reform and liberalization; (ii)
contributing to fiscal sustainability and public sector efficiency by strengthening the overall capacity
of the government to monitor economic data and improve macroeconomic policy formulation and
implementation;(iii) improvingthe quality of poverty data and information on social expenditures so
as to increase the relevance, efficiency and targeting of social programs; and (iv) improving the
efficiencyandtransparency in public procurement.

        The public procurement component is supporting three areas of reform: (1) Improving the
public procurement legal framework. Under the TA operation, the World Bank supported GOP's
actions aimed at implementingthe new legal framework, such as the regulations of the Law 22. (2)
Building institutional capacity for handling procurement; and (3) Developinga public procurement
system. This sub-component supports the establishment of a Public Procurement Information System
and setting the basis for Electronic Government Procurement (EGP). The project has financed
technicalassistance, trainingand equipment for the development ifthis system.

        The GoP has recently negotiated an additional financing for the TA (AF-TA) increasing the
original financing and extending the operation for 3 more years. Under the AF-TA, the Bank and the
GoP planto continue working together on supportingthe ongoingprocurementreform, in particularin
key areas such as: (i)develop and implement standard procurement documents; (ii) design and
implement relevant strategies: cost-reduction strategy with price benchmarking and e-procurement;
(iii)developandimplementM&E systemswithperformanceindicators;(iv)achieveaninteroperable
procurement system with other government systems, including contract management modules by
CGR. The AF-TA also contemplates assistance to modernize fiscal oversight in the CGR and
strengthen fiscal transparency.




                                                  47

L c e m m - C I b w w
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
C I N N N N N N ( U N

x
d o 0 0 0




0 0 0 0 0




0 0 0 0 0




o o o m m
       2;
       d



~ 0 0 0 0
+ v l
m




v l o o o o
2

0 0 0 0 0




0 0 0 0 0




0 0 0 m m
       2 %
       d



-01000
-vlcld
m

                                   ANNEX 7. PANAMA AT A GLANCE                                                                                       9/24/08


                                                                                    Latin        Upper
Key Development Indicators                                                       America         middle
                                                                   Panama        8 Carib.       income           Age distribution, 2007

(2007)                                                                                                                        Male                Female

Population.mid-year(millions)                                           3 3           563          823           75.79
Surfacearea (thousandsq. km)                                             76        20,421       41,497
Populationgrowth (Oh)                                                   1 6            1.2          0 6          60 64

Urban population (% of total population)                                 72            78           75           4549

GNI (Alias method, US$ billions)                                       184          3,118        5,750           30-34
GNI per capita (Atlas method,US$)                                     5,510         5,540        6,987           15 19
GNI per capita (PPP. international$)                                  8,340         9,320        11,868
                                                                                                                   0 4
GDP growth (%)                                                         11 2            5.7          5 8                15    10    5     0      5      10     I 5
GDP per capita growth(Oh)                                               9 4            4.5          5 1                               Dercant

(mostrecent estlrnate, 200CL2007)

                                                                                                                                                                 I
Povertyheadcountratioat $1 25 a day (PPP, %)                                             8
Povertyheadcountratioat $2.00 a day (PPP, %)                                           18                        Under4 mortality rate (per 1,000)
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                          75            73           70
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                                  18            22           22
Child mainutntion(% of childrenunder 5)                                                  5

Adult literacy,male (% of ages 15 and older)                             93            91           94
Adult literacy.female (% of ages 15 and older)                           91            89           92
Gross pnmaryenrollment,male (% of age group)                            113           120           112
Gross primaryenrollment,female (Oh of age group)                        110           116           109

Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                      92            91           95
Access to improvedsanitationfacilities (% of population)                 74            78           83

                                                                                                                    OPanama     Latin America 8 the Canbbean


Net Aid Flows                                             1980        1990          2000          2007 '

                                                                                                                                                                 I
(US$ mibons)
Net ODA and official aid                                     45          99            16           30           Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (Oh)
Top 3 donors (in 2006)
  United States                                              15          97            -9            19
  EuropeanCommission                                           0          0              3           13          '1
  Spain                                                                   6            13             6

Aid (% of GNI)                                               1 3        2.0            0.1          0 2
Aid per capita (US$)                                         23          41              5            9


Long-Term Economic Trends
                                                                                                                      90         95
Consumerprices (annual% change)                            13 8        -5.1            1.5          7 1
GDP impliut deflator (annual% change)                      33 7         0.6           -1.2          3 8              --O-GDP          -GDP          per capita

Exchangerate (annualaverage, local per US$)                  1 0        1.o            1.o          1 0
Terms of trade index (2000      100)                         90          94           100           96
                                                                                                                   1980-90     1990-2000        200047
                                                                                                                          (average annualgrowth %)
Population,mid-year(millions)                                1 9        2 4            2 9          3 3                   2.1          2 0            1 8
GDP (US$ millions)                                       3 810        5313         11 621        19740                    0 5          4 7           6 0
                                                                        (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                  8 9        9 8            7 2          6 9                   2 5          3.1           4 4
industry                                                   19 5        15 1          19 1          15 8                  -1 3          6 0           3 6
  Manufactunng                                             11 0         9 7          10 1           7 2                   0 4          2 7           0 7
Services                                                   71 5        75 1          73 6          77 4                   0 7          4 5           6 6

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                      449         56 9          59 9          71 4                   3 8          6 4           6 9
Generalgok't final MnsumDtionemenditure                    17 6        18 1          13 2           6 6                   1 2          1 7           4 3
Gross capitalformation                                     28 1        16 8          24 1          23 0                  -9 2         104            6 7

Exportsof goods and services                               98 2        86 8          72 6          68 3                   0 4         -0 4           5 3
Importsof goods and services                               88 8        78 6          69 8          69 4                   t o          1 2           5 8
Gross savings                                              27 6        24 2          23 1          16 4


Note: Figuresin italics are for years other thanthose specified. 2007 data are preliminary. .. indicatesdata are not available
a. Aid data are for 2006.

DevelopmentEconomics,DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).




                                                                               50

                                                                                                                                                           Panama

Balance of Paymentsand Trade                                2000      2007
                                                                                           sovernance indicators, 2000 and 2007
(US$ mi//fons)
Total merchandise exports (fob)                             5,838     9,241
Total merchandise imports (uo                               7,655    13,293                Voice and accountability
Net trade in goods and services                             -279      -212
                                                                                                   Politicalstability
Workers' remittances and
   compensation of employees (receipts)                         16      173                      Regulatoryquality


Current account balance                                      -715    -1,079                             Rule of law

   as a % of GDP                                              -6.2     -5.5                    Controlof corruption

Reserves, including gold                                      707     1,628                                          0      25            50          75     too


Central Government Finance                                                                       02007                  CountryIpercentilerank (0-100)
                                                                                                 02000                    hggher valuer imply betlormtmgl

(% of GDP)
Current revenue (including grants)                           18.2      17.5                wrce Kaufmann-Kraav-Masrmul World Bank

   Tax revenue                                                 9.6     10.2
Cumnt expenditure                                            16.9      15.4
                                                                                       Technology and Infrastructure                                  2000    2007
Overall surplus/defidt                                        -1.1      0.5
                                                                                       Paved roads (% of total)                                       34 6
Highest marginal tax rate (Oh)                                                         Fixed line and mobile phone
   Individual                                                   30       27              subscribers (per 1,000people)                                  28       86
   Corporate                                                    30       30            Hightechnology exports
                                                                                         (% of manufactured exports)                                   0 1     0 3
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                       Environment
(US$ miliions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                        7,038    9,989             Agricultural land (Ohof land area)                               29      30
Total debt seMm                                               917    3,459             Forest area (% of land area)                                   57 9    57 7
Debt relief (HIPC, MDRI)                                         -                     Nationally protected areas (% of land area)                            17 6

Total debt (% of GDP)                                        606      584              Freshwaterresources per capita (cu.meters)                           45 613
Total debt seMce (Ohof exports)                                9 7    246              Freshwaterwithdrawal (% of internal resources)                  0 6

Foreign direct investment (net inflows)                       624    2,574             C02 emissions per capita (mt)                                    1 9     1 8
Portfolio equity (net inflows)                                   0        0
                                                                                       GDP per unitof energy use
                                                                                         (2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                         7 3
    Composition of total external debt, 2006                             1                                                                                     9 0

  I                        IBRD 185                                                    Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)                    875     804
                                    \    IDA   IMF 15
                                                      Other mulQ.

                  Shon-trrm 505                       i*ClSI  983                       World Bank Group portfoiio                                    2000    2007
                                                       Bilateral 183
                                                                                        (US$ mlhons)

                                                                                        IBRD
                                                                                         Total debt outstanding and disbursed                          263     216
                                                                                         Disbursements                                                  22       74
                                                                                         Pnncipal repayments                                            24       43
                                                                                         Interest payments                                              21       13
                            Private 8 117                                I
    US$ rnllltonr                                                        I              IDA
                                                                                         Total debt outstanding and disbursed                            0        0
                                                                                         Disbursements                                                   0        0
Private Sector Development                                  2000      2008               Total debt service                                              0        0

Time required to start a business (days)                                 13             IFC (fiscalyear)
Cost to start a business (% of GNI per capita)                         196               Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio                     226     175
Time required to register property (days)                        ---     44                of which IFC own account                                    117     157
                                                                                         Disbursementsfor IFC own account                               84        0
Ranked as a major constraint to business                    2000      2007               Portfolio sales, prepayments and
   (56 of managers surveyedwho agreed)                                                     repaymentsfor IFC own account                                 2       54
     Electncity                                                       30 6
     Tax rates                                                        14 6              MlGA
                                                                                         Gross exposure                                                  0       0
Stock market capitalization (% of GDP)                       240       31 5              New guarantees                                                  0        0
Bank capital to asset ratio (Oh)                              9 6     113


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2007 data are preliminaly.                                                               9/24/08
.. indicates  data are not available. -indicates observation is not applicable.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).
                                                                                                                                                              b




                                                                               5 1




