Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15599-YEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
July 19, 1996
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1996)
Currency Unit=Yemeni Rial (YR)
US$1 =YR 100.0 (Official Rate)
US$1 =YR 130.0 (Market Rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I cubic meter          =       264 US gallons
I cubic meter per hour  =      4.40 U.S. gallon per minute (gpm)
1 kilometer (km)       =       0.621 mile (mi)
1 liter per second (Ips)   =   15.84 U.S. gallons per minute (gpm)
1 meter (m)            =       3.281 feet (ft)
I metric ton (ton)     =       2204 pounds (lbs)
1 hectare(ha)          =       2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
GOY             Government of Yemen
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDA             International Development Association
IFAD            International Fund for Agricultural Development
iS             International Shopping
LIB             Limited International Bidding
LPS             Liter Per Second
MENA            Middle East and North Africa
MOAWR           Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
MOEW            Ministry of Electricity and Water
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NS              National Shopping
NWRA            National Water Resources Authority
NWSA            National Water and Sanitation Authority
O&M             Operations and Maintenance
PMU             Project Management Unit
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
SDR             Special Drawing Rights
SURDU           Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TA              Technical Assistance
UFW             Unaccounted For Water
UNCDF           United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDDSMS         United Nations Department for Development Support and Management
Services
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
WID             Women in Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary .......................................   i-iii
I. BACKGROUND  ..............................................    1
Introduction   ..1...........................................    I
Sectoral Developments ........................................    2
Strategy to Alleviate the Taiz Water Crisis  ...........................    2
Lessons from  Previous IDA  Involvement  ............................    3
Rationale for IDA  Involvement  ..................................    3
Borrower's Commitment  ......................................    4
1I. THE  PROJECT   .............................................    4
Project Objectives   ..........................................    4
Project Description ...........................................   4
Project Cost and Financing  .....................................    6
Procurement . ..................   .. 6
Disbursements ..................  8
Project Implementation ..................   8
Accounting and Auditing ..................  10
Supervision ..................                                                                         10
Private Sector Involvement ..................  10
Environmental Impact ..................  10
Social Impact  ....       .........................................  11
Project  Sustainability    ........................................                                    11
III. IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES AND PROJECT OPERATION
AND MAINTENANCE   .......................................  12
Implementing Agencies  ......................................   12
Operation and Maintenance  .....................................   13
Cost Recovery and Affordability   .................................   13
IV.  PROJECT  BENEFITS, RISKS AND ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS   .............   14
Benefits  .................................................   14
Risks ...................................................  14
Economic  Analysis    ..........................................                                       15
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED   .....................................  16



Table of Contents
Page No.
Text Tables
2.1   Procurement Arrangements.                                                                         7
2.2           Disbursements .........................................  8
4.1           Summary of Economic Rates of Return  ........................   15
Annexes
Annex 1          Detailed Project Description
Annex 2          Cost Estimates of Project Components
Annex 3          Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 4          Project Supervision Forecast
Annex 5          Disbursement Schedule
Annex 6          Project Implementation Action Plan and Monitoring Indicators
Annex 7          Terms of Reference for Studies:
A.      Socio-Economic Studies for Wadi Warazan and Wadi
Al Ja'ashin Dikes
B.      Women's Activities Pilot Program
C.      NWRA - Regional Water Management for Hadramawt Area Scope
Terms of Reference for Regional Water Resources Management
Study in Wadi Masila
D.      NWRA - Water Exploration in Wadi Rasyan
E.      Water Resources Exploration Studies for the City of Taiz by
NWRA
Annex 8          Economic and Sensitivity Analysis
Annex 9          Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map Nos.:    IBRD 27973 and IBRD 28055
This report is based on the fmdings of a combined appraisal and negotiations mission, which visited Yemen from April 22 to May
9, 1996. The mssion comprised Mr. Mario A. Zelaya, Task Manager (MN2PI); Ms. Karen Hudes (LEGMN), Lawyer; Mr. Ghazi
Al Sakkaf, Agro-Economist Consultant; and Ms. Shaheena Khan, Socio-Economist Consultant. The mission was supported at
Headquarters by Mr. Alexander McPhail, Water Resources Economist (EMTAW), who co-task managed the appraisal and
negotiations; Mrs. Marle-Ange Le, Operations Analyst (MN2PI), assisted in the preparation of the SAR; and Mrs. Rebecca Ling,
Senior Staff Assistant, was responsible for coordinating report production. Messrs. Alastair J. McKechnie and Inder K. Sud are
Division Chief (MN2PI) and Director (MN2), respectively, for the operation. The Regional Vice President is Mr. Kemal Dervis
(MNA).



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Republic of Yemen
Implementing        The National Water and Sanitation Authority (NWSA)
Agencies:           The National Water Resources Authority (NWRA)
Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU)
Beneficiaries:      The population of the City of Taiz and surrounding communities
Amount:             SDR 7.1 million (US$10.2 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard with 40-year maturity and 10 years' grace
Commitment
Charge:             Standard (a variable rate between 0 and 0.5 percent of the undisbursed credit
balance set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA).
Project
Objectives:         The Project's main objectives are to mitigate the immediate water shortage in the
city of Taiz (by increasing supply by about 100 percent) and identify new water
sources to avert a sustained water shortage (to meet the needs of at least the year
2000 or about 550 liters per second). The Project also aims at developing and
testing an institutional framework for decentralized water resources management
through participation of local communities (through the establishment of
comnmunity associations), and to promote private sector participation in the
management of water and wastewater utility services (by entering into a
management contract in the second phase of the Taiz Water Supply Project).
Project
Description:        The Project consists of three components: (i) well drilling and conveyance to the
city of Taiz; (ii) a compensation package for people in the Habir area who will
give up water for Taiz, consisting of rural water supply schemes that include a
pilot program of activities targeted at women; two demonstration irrigation
schemes including wells, piping and technical assistance; school rooms; and
studies for an aquifer recharge dike in Habir area; and (iii) studies of surface and
ground water sources for urban and rural development; technical assistance for
the preparation of a second phase project for the city of Taiz and Al Qaidah
town; and preparation of a management contract for Taiz NWSA branch for
implementation in the second phase project.



ii
Benefits and Risks:   Project benefits include: (i) mitigation of water scarcity in the City of Taiz to
reduce a potential health crisis due to unsanitary conditions; (ii) reduction of
stress on existing aquifers; (iii) provision of water to low income families (about
25 percent of Taiz population) that cannot afford the high price set by private
water vendors; (iv) development of a framework for participation of rural
communities in the management of water resources; (v) formulation of a
compensation mechanism to rural communities to enable water transfers to urban
areas under the principles of integrated water management; and (vi) development
of a regional water management plan to prevent uncontrolled development of the
Hadramawt area. There are three main project risks. First, although the rural
communities in Habir area have agreed to the transfer of water to Taiz and to a
compensation package, they may later request to modify the accord in such a way
to make it unworkable. To reduce this risk, the Government and IDA have spent
considerable resources making sure that the agreed arrangement is both
reasonable and sustainable. The second risk is that water extraction will exceed
the agreed sustainable yield of the effected aquifers. To reduce this risk, safe
yields of the aquifers have been established and pumps sized accordingly. Also,
actual abstractions will be monitored with facilities provided by the project, and
monitoring activities will be sanctioned on a regular basis by the stakeholders.
The third risk is that the Government may be unable to put in place the
management contract in Taiz, thus undermining the sustainability of the project.
The pilot nature of the project has been chosen to address this risk by ensuring
that an effective institutional framework is implemented in Phase II of the
strategy.
Estimated
Project Costs:
(US$ 000)
Project Components           Local         Foreign          Total
Well Field Development               686           3,053          3,739
Rural Infrastructure                 542           1,438           1,980
TA & Studies                         635           3,5851/        4,220
Total Base Cost                  1,863          8,076           9,939
Physical Contingencies                93            371             464
Price Contingencies                  542             140            682
Total Contingencies               635             511           1,146
Total Project Cost                 2,498           8,587         11,085
l/     Includes about US$700,000 under the Project Preparation Facility.



i;;
Financing Plan:
Funding Source          Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ million)
1. IDA                        1.60        8.60 "        10.20
2. Government                 0.90         0.00          0.90
Total                       2.50       8.601/        11.10
'/  Includes US$0.7 million under the Project Preparation Facility.
Estimated Disbursements:
____________    (US$  million)
Fiscal Year       1997         1998        1999       2000
Annual            3.50         5.00         1.50      0.20
Cumulative        3.50         8.50        10.00      10.20
Economic Rate of Return:    55 percent
Environmental Rating:       Category B
Poverty Category:           Not applicable
Map Nos.:                   IBRD 27973 and IBRD 28055
Project ID No.:             43367






REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.1        Unification of North and South Yemen in 1990, the Gulf crisis in 1991 and the civil war in
1994 have resulted in massive population dislocations which have primarily affected major urban centers,
such as Sana'a and Taiz. One significant impact has been the increased demand for urban infrastructure,
particularly drinking water supply. The political crisis also resulted in institutional uncertainties,
weakening the National Water and Sanitation Authority (NWSA) and reducing public investments to such
low levels that the quality of public water supply and waste water services fell below minimum acceptable
standards.
1.2        Yemen is quickly heading for a water crisis and is considered the most water-stressed
country in the Middle East. The country is poorly endowed with fresh water resources and its growing
shortage is threatening to undermine the country's economic growth prospects.  The country has no
perennial rivers and, therefore, must rely on periodic rainfall and groundwater for all its potable water
and irrigation needs. National fresh groundwater storage is estimated at about 10,370 billion cubic
meters, with an annual recharge of about 1.5 billion cubic meters. However, annual withdrawals in 1994
were estimated at about 2.1 billion cubic meters, or about 140 percent of the safe yield. In certain parts
of the highlands the situation is much worse; for example, in the Sana'a basin annual mining of the
aquifer is currently about 300 percent of the sustainable yield.
1.3        The City of Taiz, located in the highlands approximately mid-way between Sana'a and Aden,
is Yemen's third largest city with a population of about 400,000. Water shortages in Taiz have increased
to the extent that piped water supply is available only once every 40 days. Private water vendors have
emerged to meet the demand, but only middle and upper income families can afford to pay the high
purchase price (up to YR 700 or about US$5.40 per cubic meter). Taiz's population is expected to reach
about 475,000 by the year 2000 and 670,000 by 2010. Water demand, based on a moderate per capita
daily demand of 100 liters, is estimated to increase from about 460 liters per second (Ips) today to about
550 lps in the year 2000, and then 775 lps in 2010. These numbers show that the present water shortage
crisis would worsen in the near future. In contrast, the main sources of water supply, Al Haima and
Houban/Hougela well fields, are being depleted to the extent of approaching total collapse. Since early
1994, the yield of Al Haima well field has declined by about fifty percent to about 75 lps today; and the
Houban and Hougela well field has apparently stabilized at about 40 lps, a 50 percent drop in the last four
years.  NWSA's performance has also deteriorated as evidenced by the high degree of inefficiency
(unaccounted-for water exceeds 50 percent of water production) and insufficient generation of financial
resources.
1.4        The only proven water source with a potential for transferring water to Taiz is located about
30 kilometers north of the city in the Habir area of the Ibb governorate. Since June 1995, NWSA has
drilled five exploratory wells and two or three more will be drilled which would yield up to 140 lps for
transfer to Taiz. This additional amount of water will reduce the current shortage in the city by about
half, making water available to individual customers once in every 20 days.



2                                                                 Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project
1.5        A water strategy is being developed by the Government of Yemen (GOY) with donor and
International Development Association (IDA) assistance that confronts the serious crisis of water resource
depletion and the problems of water supply management. The strategy calls for decentralization of
decision making, compensation of rural communities for loss of productive water, restructuring NWSA,
and a role for the private sector in urban service delivery.
Sectoral Developments
1.6        The Government has only recently been able to turn its attention to resolving the country's
impending water crisis and is already taking measures to: (i) reform water sector institutions; (ii)
formulate and implement an integrated water sector strategy; and (iii) foster an increased role for the
private sector in water resources management. On the institutional side, in October 1995, GOY created
the National Water Resources Authority (NWRA) to assume full responsibility for water resource
management. NWRA's chairman was appointed in April 1996 and the agency is now in the process of
organizing and staffing. Ultimately, NWRA will be responsible for water resources planning and
monitoring at the national level, the drafting of water-related legislation, the licensing of water uses and
well-drilling equipment, and increasing public awareness on water resource issues. The Government also
recently established a Technical Secretariat to reform NWSA, which is the government agency responsible
for the provision of water and waste water services in urban areas in the country, and to identify methods
for increasing the efficiency of sector utilities.
1.7        On the strategy side, the Government, with assistance from IDA and other donors, is
developing an integrated water resource management strategy to confront the crisis of water resource
depletion. Recognizing the difficulty of effectively implementing commnand-and-control measures in the
countryside, the Government aims to decentralize decision making and secure end-user involvement in
water use decisions. The Government and its donor partners (including IDA) have already spent
considerable time working in Habir area as part of the formulation of the integrated water resources
management strategy. The results in this community will give an indication of the applicability of this
approach to other parts of the country and help to validate the decentralized approach to sustainable water
use.
1.8        Increasing the role of the private sector is a key element of the Government's water strategy.
All indications are that NWSA will not be able to reform itself quickly enough to meet the growing urban
demand for water and avoid the impending crisis that a severe water shortage would bring. Already,
NWSA is unable to supply all customers in several large cities of the country's uplands, and private water
supply systems (including small piped systems) have sprung up in order to meet the demand. There
would, therefore, appear to be an opportunity for private operators to assume management of the existing
infrastructure in selected cities in order to both improve the quality of service and efficiency of operations
to lower the overall cost of water to consumers. The Government is actively pursuing this avenue and
has requested that the design of a management contract be included in the Project for implementation
under a follow-up project.
Strategy to Alleviate the Taiz Water Crisis
1.9        The strategy agreed with the Government to alleviate Taiz's water crisis (paras. 1.3-1.4)
would be a model that, if successful, would be transferred to other parts of the country. The strategy
has four elements: (i) rehabilitating and upgrading the water supply and distribution network to reduce
system losses; (ii) developing new water sources to meet future demand; (iii) involving the private sector



Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project                                                           3
under a management contract to improve management; and (iv) ensuring financial viability of the services
through a combination of adequate tariffs and improved commercial operations. To carry out this
strategy, a two-phase approach is proposed.
1.10       During Phase I, the Pilot Project would be implemented to test a framework for participation
of rural communities in water allocation, explore the Taiz area for new water sources and promote
involvement of the private sector via a management contract for urban water and wastewater service
delivery. If successful, Phase I would be followed by Phase II, during which a proposed Taiz Water
Supply and Sanitation Project would implement major water supply and distribution improvements in Taiz
and develop additional supply sources identified in the first phase. During negotiations, ireement wa,
reached with the Government on the strategy to alleviate the Taiz water crisis as recorded in the Policy
Sector Letter of the Government.
Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement
1.11       IDA has extensive experience in urban water sector projects in Yemen; eight projects are
completed and another two projects are under implementation. They both h.ave satisfactory ratings for
development objectives and implementation progress. This experience has been primarily in the provision
of water supply and waste water collection systems and institutional strengthening of NWSA. The
experience indicates that the impediments to sectoral development continue to be the lack of Government
commitment to provide autonomy to water institutions, inability of the Government to secure consent of
local communities to develop and allocate water resources, and the absence of a water resources strategy.
In brief, this experience shows that the future success of water utilities depends on the Government's
willingness to develop a comprehensive, up-to-date and appropriate policy for the sector, and on its ability
to provide incentives for the participation of local communities and for the improvement of urban
services. Particularly important in this regard is the establishment of an institutional framework that can
further the sustainability of both individual projects and overall water resources management. This
Project directly addresses these issues through the preparation of an urban water sector policy statement,
the provision of a framework for private sector management of urban service delivery and the
implementation of institutional reforms.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.12        The Project's objectives are fully consistent with the country assistance strategy for Yemen
(as discussed by the Executive Directors on February 20, 1996) that recognizes the key role that sound
management of the country's scarce natural resources, especially water, has in establishing a foundation
for sustainable economic growth. The Government has requested IDA and other donors to assist in
formulating a long-term and sustainable water management strategy. The long involvement of IDA in
the sector gives a comparative advantage to introduce major reforms in the water sector. Under this
Project, IDA is taking a lead role to test sector reforms to complement the ongoing works of other
donors. In this context, IDA participation in the proposed pilot project is an important step in the
formulation of a water strategy for Taiz area, and it is expected that some of the approaches developed
under this Project (especially concerning community participation and stakeholder management) can be
replicated in other parts of the country with IDA and donors' assistance and then later by the Government
on its own. Also, the Government has no experience with private sector management of utility operations
and, therefore, has requested IDA's assistance in designing and preparing a management contract for Taiz
as part of the pilot project. Moreover, IDA is able to provide the lessons of best practice in water sector
management and private management of water utilities. Finally, after the unification, civil war and
subsequent economic instability, the investment needs of the sector are significant and beyond the means
of the Government to finance alone. Given the country's recent agreements with the international



4                                                                  Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project
financial community on a macroeconomic framework, there is also little likelihood of the country being
able to access private capital markets for this sector in the foreseeable future. Thus, it must depend on
IDA and the rest of the donor community to meet the majority of its water infrastructure financing
requirements. In order to help ensure an efficient allocation of resources, IDA has also assumed a lead
role with the Government in coordinating donors' activities in the sector.
Borrower's Commitment
1.13       The Government has demonstrated considerable commitment to the Project, has requested
IDA assistance for both phases of the strategy to reduce the Taiz water crisis, and has taken measures
to involve affected rural communities in the process. It has already completed, using its own resources,
the exploration of the project-area aquifer and the drilling of five deep wells. The Government has also
issued a Presidential decree establishing NWRA and a Ministerial decree establishing the Technical
Secretariat to reform the country's water sector institutions.  Finally, the Government has recognized
that its water resources problems will only be solved over the longer term and, therefore, it has entered
into a sustained dialogue with its assistance partners and is taking measures to address water issues in a
constructive and incremental manner using a variety of forums and approaches.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
2.1        The overall project objective is to help the Government start implementation of its water
strategy for Taiz. Specific objectives are to: (i) mitigate the immediate water shortage in Taiz (by
increasing the supply by about 100 percent); (ii) identifv new water sources to avert a sustained water
shortage crisis (to meet the needs of at least the year 2000 or about 550 lps); (iii) develop and test a
process and institutional framework for decentralized water resources management (through the
establishment of local community associations); and (iv) promote private-sector participation in the
management of water and wastewater utility services (by entering into a management contract in the
second phase of the Taiz Water Supply Project). To monitor the extent to which project objectives are
being realized, a set of monitorable indicators has been prepared (Annex 6).
Project Description
2.2        The Project will consist of three components: (i) well drilling and conveyance; (ii) a
compensation package for people in the Habir area in Ibb governorate who will be giving up water for
Taiz; and (iii) technical assistance and studies, including preparation of a management contract for the
NWSA Taiz Branch.
2.3        The first component will complete the development of the Habir well field, connect these
wells to an existing conveyance scheme (in the Al Haima area) for delivery to Taiz, provide electric
power distribution and upgrade NWSA power plant, and provide for aquifer performance monitoring
stations. The compensation component includes rural water supply schemes in Habir and Al Haima areas
and a well for Al Qhaida town, a feasibility study for one small dike for groundwater recharge and
irrigation in West Habir area, a three-classroom addition to the Hajr Bin school, and two irrigation
schemes each consisting of a well with pumping equipment and irrigation piping.



Taiz Water Supply PUot Project                                                          5
2.4        The technical assistance and studies component will explore and test four to six potential
groundwater sources in the Taiz region (including Wadi Rasyan), study the feasibility of developing Wadi
Warazan as a potential water resource for urban and rural development, develop a regional water
management plan for the Hadramawt area, prepare a water and sewerage utility management contract for
Taiz, and provide for designs and studies that will be needed to rehabilitate and upgrade the Taiz's and
Al Qaidah's water and wastewater systems under Phase II.
2.5        Details of components to be carried out by each implementing agency are provided below.
Further details are provided in Annex. 1.
(a) Habir Well Field Development by NWSA:
(i)      Construction of eight deep wells for Taiz (and one well for Al Qaidah town) and
provision of pumping equipment, water meter, piping and accessories, well head
and accessories, standby power generation, electricity transformers and switch
gear, and well structure and housing;
(ii)     Provision of three aquifer monitoring wells, and installations for measuring
ground water levels;
(iii)    Provision of about 17.5 km of transmission piping ranging in size from 150 mm
to 300 mm diameter steel pipe;
(iv)     Replacement of three electric generators at NWSA power generation station and
construction of about 10 km of electric power distribution overhead line;
(v)      Provision of potable water supply schemes to service about ten villages in East
Habir and West Habir (including technical assistance to local cooperatives on
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) and management); and
(vi)     Preparation of tender documents for a private management contract for NWSA
Taiz branch, and of design and tender documents for the rehabilitation and
upgrading of Taiz and Al Qaidah water and wastewater systems, for possible
IDA financing under a second phase project.
(b) Rural Infrastructure by the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU):
(i)      Provision of rural water supply schemes for about twenty villages in the Al
Haima area, including technical assistance to local cooperatives or village
committees on O&M and management of such systems;
(ii)     Provision of two demonstration irrigation schemes, technical assistance and
extension services, one for East Habir Cooperative and the other for West Habir
Cooperative, consisting each of a well, pumping equipment and a diesel power
engine, well monitoring equipment, and about 5.0 km irrigation piping per
scheme;
(iii)    Development of a pilot program of women activities, to be implemented in two
poor villages in Lower Al Haima area (para. 2.21);



6                                                             Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project
(iv)     Undertaking feasibility studies for a possible recharge dike in Wadi Al Jaashin
in Habir area and for a dam in Wadi Warazan as a potential water source for
urban and rural development; and
(v)      Construction of three school rooms in Hajr Bin school.
(c) Water Sources Studies by NWRA:
(i)      Undertaking ground water exploration studies in the Taiz region for the water
supply of the city of Taiz;
(ii)     Undertaking ground water exploration in Wadi Rasyan to complement water
management plans for the Taiz region and the city of Taiz; and
(iii)    Undertaking a study in Wadi Masila in Hadramawt area to complement water
management plans for the rational development of Hadramawt area.
Project Cost and Financing
2.6        The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$11.1 million, including physical and price
contingencies and about US$0.7 million spent under the existing Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
Project financing will consist of a Government contribution of about US$0.9 million and an IDA credit
of SDR 7.1 million (about US$10.2 million equivalent). Foreign and local costs are estimated at US$8.6
(including the PPF) and US$2.5 million, respectively. IDA would finance 100 percent of foreign costs
and 64 percent of local costs (US$1.6 million).
Procurement
2.7        Over 50 percent of procurement of Goods will be carried out under contracts awarded in
accordance with LIB due to the urgent nature of the project, the requirement that suppliers have
established maintenance services and spare parts stocking facilities in Yemen, and the small size of
contracts.  Accordingly, Goods (electrical and mechanical equipment) estimated to cost less than
US$500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$3,200,000 equivalent,
and Goods, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers,
regardless of the cost thereof, will be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with LIB.
Contracts for Goods costing more than US$500,000 (piping and accessories) will be procured in
accordance with International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Works estimated to cost less than US$750,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$2,000,000 equivalent, will be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with National Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB). IDA has
reviewed the applicable national competitive bidding procurement procedures in Yemen, and found them
acceptable, with certain exceptions, such as the fact that the Government does not require parastatals to
provide bid and performance securities and that price negotiations are permitted with the lowest evaluated
bidders. The Government has agreed that these exceptions will not apply to procurement financed under
the Credit. Goods estimated to cost less than US$60,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$150,000 equivalent, will be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
International Shopping (IS) procedures. Goods estimated to cost less than US$40,000 equivalent per



Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project                                                                             7
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$100,000 equivalent, will be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Shopping (NS) procedures. There will be prior review for
contracts for goods and works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of US$75,000. It is expected
that this will result in prior review for approximately 80 percent of procurement.
Table 2.1: Procurement Arrangements
Procuremnent Methods
(US $ 000)
Project Components            ICB al            NCB           Other b/       TOTAL
Civil Works                                           1,892                        1,892
(1,703)                     (1,703)
Goods and Equipment                 3,368                             263          3,631
(3,200)                          (250)        (3,450)
Technical Assistance and Studies                                     4,908         4,908
(4,431)      (4,431)
Repayment of PPF                                                      654          654
(654)       (654)
Total                            3,368            1,892           5,825        11,085
(3,200)          (1,703)        (5,335)       (10,238)
Notes: Figures within parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.
a/ Includes about US$1.5 million of LIB.
bl Goods and Equipment: US$0.15 million of Intemational Shopping and US$0.1 million of Local Shopping; Studies
include: about US$1.0 million for exploratory drilling which will be procured as civil works, and about US$0.808
million to be carried out by local experts.
2.8     Historically, there has been a wide disparity between the official rate of exchange of the Yemeni
rial and the rate of exchange in the parallel market. Although this difference has narrowed recently, the
Government has agreed that contracts financed under the Credit will be expressed in currencies widely
used in international trade. There will be retroactive financing for payments made after April 1, 1996
for: (i) goods costing in the aggregate up to US$150,000 equivalent; (ii) works costing in the aggregate
up to US$150,000 equivalent, for the procurement of urgently needed electrical and mechanical
equipment, piping and accessories; and (iii) consultancy services costing in the aggregate up to
US$50,000 equivalent, to expedite studies for ground water exploration. The ground water exploration
component will be carried out by the staff of the Geology and Hydrology Department of NWRA, who
will be assisted by expatriate experts on hydrology and geology currently working for NWRA.
Consultants and any technical assistance (TA) will be hired in accordance with the Guidelines "Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency (August 1981)."
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the above-mentioned procurement arrangements.



8                                                                                Taiz Water Supply Plot Project
Disbursements
2.9     Table 2.2 shows how the IDA Credit proceeds would be disbursed against the various project
components.
Table 2.2: Disbursements
Category                        Amount Allocated               % of Expenditure
SDR Million                  to be Flnanced
(1)  (a) Civil Works, Well Field                           0.70          90%
(I)  (b) Civil Works, Exploratory Drilling                 0.50          90%
(1)  (c) Civil Works, Rural Infrastucture                  0.30          90%
(2)  (a) Goods and Equipment, Well Field                   1.00          100% of foreign, 100% of local ex-factory
cost, and 95% of local items procured
locally
(2)  (b) Goods and Equipment for Rural Infrastructure      0.70          Same as (2)(a)
(3)  (a) Consultants, Training, Workshops and Seminars     1.30          100% of foreign, 95% of local expenditures
for Taiz Water Supply
(3)  (b) Consultants and Training, Water Exploration and   1.00          Same as (3)(a)
Water Resources Studies
(3)  (c) Consultants for Rural Infrastructure              0.30          Same as (3)(a)
(4)  (a) Compensation for NWSA PMU                         0.05          95% of local expenditures
(4)  (b) Compensation for NWRA PMU                         0.05          Same as (4)(a) above
(4)  (c) Compensation for SURDU PMU                        0.05          Same as (4)(a) above
(5)  Refunding PPF                                         0.50          100%
Unallocated                                          0.65
TOTAL                                                 7.10
2.10         Due to the relative small project size and its urgent nature, the project will be implemented
over a three-and- a-half-year period, with a completion target date of December 31, 1999. The Closing
Date is June 30, 2000. The disbursement period of 14 quarters is deemed achievable as most investments
(about 82 percent) will take place in the first 8 quarters. The estimated schedule of disbursements from
IDA proceeds by quarters is given in Annex 5. There will be three special accounts established: (i) a
special account of US$400,000 for the components of the Project to be carried out by NWSA; (ii) a
special account of US$300,000 for the components of the Project to be carried out by NWRA and (iii)
a special account of US$300,000 for the components of the Project to be carried out by SURDU (para.
2.16).
Project Implementation
2.11         Project preparation is well advanced. Drilling and testing of five deep wells in the Habir well
field have been successfully completed, as is the design of new pipe connections from Habir well field
to the existing transmission pipeline from Al Haima well field to Taiz. Two wells are currently being
connected to Taiz on an emergency basis to compensate for the continued decline of Al Haima well field.
SURDU has also prepared prefeasibility studies for the two small dikes in west Habir and for the rural



Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project                                                       9
water supply schemes in Al Haima area. However, regarding the proposed dikes, further studies will
be needed for one of them (one dike proved to be infeasible on socio-economic and environmental
grounds) before determining its feasibility. It is expected that all four of the major mechanical and
electrical contracts (totaling about US$1.2 million) and the pipe contract (about US$1.3 million) will be
tendered and evaluated by the end of September 1996 and only awaiting Credit effectiveness before being
awarded. Similarly, civil works contracts for equipment and pipe installation can be awarded soon
thereafter; and construction of the rural water supply and irrigation schemes should be underway in early
1997.
2.12      The following three agencies will be responsible for implementing the Project: NWSA,
SURDU and NWRA. NWSA will provide overall Project coordination, including ensuring the proper
sequencing of the Project's components. NWSA will establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) in
Taiz to take full responsibility for project implementation. NWSA will be responsible for the Habir well
field development, conveyance infrastructure from Habir well field to the existing transmission pipeline
from Al Haima well field to Taiz, and the rural water supply schemes in Habir area. NWSA will also
be charged with preparing and procuring the private sector management contract and preparing the second
phase project for Taiz and Al-Qaidah town. SURDU is already located in Taiz and will appoint a project
manager and full time staff to the project. SURDU will be responsible for implementing the rural water
supply schemes in Al Haima area (including a pilot program for WID activities), and two demonstration
irrigation schemes in Habir area (two wells and corresponding irrigation piping), carrying out the study
for Wadi Warazan as a potential water resource for urban and rural development, and a feasibility study
for a recharge dike in Habir area. SURDU will also be responsible for providing administrative and
technical support to rural community associations and cooperatives, particularly on aspects of their
participation on water resources management. NWSA and SURDU both have many years of experience
with IDA-funded projects, and both also have competent project implementation units that have been
established under previous IDA projects.
2.13      NWRA will establish a PMU to coordinate and manage project implementation. NWRA will
be responsible for undertaking the ground water exploration studies in the Taiz region and for developing
the regional water management plan for Hadramawt area. This is a new entity, but it will integrate into
its organization experienced technical staff from other Government agencies and ministries. NWRA is
also the beneficiary of substantial and ongoing donor support that should help to ensure timely execution
of its project responsibilities.
2.14      NWSA, NWRA and SURDU will each be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications
and having the required audits performed in accordance with IDA guidelines.
2.15      A project Steering Committee will be established by the Government (by the Governor of
Ibb) consisting of representatives of concerned rural communities in Habir area (up to six elected
members), NWSA, SURDU, NWRA, and of the Ibb and Taiz governors. The Steering Committee will
coordinate with and ensure participation of local communities, follow-up on project implementation, and
serve as a forum to build consensus among all key players. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that the Project will be implemented by NWSA, SURDU and NWRA in accordance with the above
described implementation arrangements (paras. 2.11 through 2.15) and the Project Implementation Action
Plan and Monitoring Indicators (Annex 6).



10                                                               Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project
Accounting and Auditing
2.16      NWSA, SURDU and NWRA will each keep separate accounts for project expenditures in
accordance with internationally acceptable accounting principles and practices. These accounts and the
Special Accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, and
copies of the audited statements will be forwarded to IDA within four months of the end of the Yemeni
fiscal year. During negotiations, agreement was reached that each implementing agency will: (i) open
a Special Account (para. 2.10); (ii) maintain separate Project Accounts; and (iii) carry out annual
independent audits in accordance with IDA Guidelines.
Supervision
2.17      The Association will supervise the project three times in the first fiscal year, and, on average,
twice yearly thereafter, combined with other missions to the country. The supervision team will consist
of a sanitary engineer and a financial analyst or private-sector specialist. At least once a year, a
hydrogeologist and a sociologist or socio economist will join supervision missions to review progress on
the ground water exploration studies and the local participation initiative, respectively. At least once a
year, IDA staff with experience in rural development (irrigation, agronomy and agro-economy) and water
resources management will also join missions to supervise the demonstration irrigation schemes and the
Hadramawt study, and to review the lessons learned from local participation in decentralized water
resources management for use in the formulation of the water strategy. Supervision missions will use
the agreed monitoring indicators as the basis to review progress. There will be a mid-term review of the
Project by April 30, 1997, during the peak construction period, to review project objectives and
implementation. Annex 4 gives details on project supervision by IDA.
Private Sector Involvement
2.18      The proposed project will promote for the first time in Yemen the involvement of the private
sector in the management of public water and wastewater utilities. The project includes preparation of
the bidding documents for a private management contract and request for tenders on a competitive basis.
Financing for the private sector management contract will be provided under the second phase project,
Taiz Water and Sanitation Project. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that NWSA will:  (a) prepare the management contract documents for its Taiz Branch, which will be
completed by January 31, 1997; and (b) issue the ICB announcement for the management contract by
March 31, 1997.
Enviromnental Impact
2.19      The project is expected to have the following environmental benefits. In the area of the
existing Al Haima well field, it would: (i) help organize concerned rural communities to take an active
role in water resources management, giving emphasis to water conservation and protection of aquifer
hydrological integrity; and (ii) relieve the stress on Al Haima aquifer by reducing extraction. In the Taiz
region, the exploration of new ground water sources and studies of potential surface water sources would
enable the Government to formulate integrated water resources management plans to safeguard the
resources, as well as the socio-economic interests of affected rural communities. The Project will include
aquifer monitoring stations to measure aquifer performance over time and make operational adjustments
to protect aquifers from over-exploitation. The Project will provide substantial support to NWRA to
strengthen its role in water resources management, particularly in protecting the aquifers. The two
demonstration irrigation schemes will introduce irrigation water efficiency measures and low-water high-



Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project                                                          11
yield crops in order to conserve a scarce resource. Local communities, with vested interests in protecting
aquifers, will play a key role in the participatory approach to water resources management.
2.20      Because of the small size of the proposed works and the mitigative measures included in the
project to try to correct depletion of aquifers, and because the existing Taiz's sewage treatment plant is
currently operating below design capacity and its performance will not be affected by the additional water
supply, the project has been classified under environmental category B, with limited environmental
review.
Social Impact
2.21      The project will have a positive impact on the poor both in the city of Taiz and in rural
communities in Habir and Al Haima areas. First, water shortages have affected primarily the poor as
only middle and higher income families can afford to purchase water from private vendors. Rationing
of piped water supply affects poor families disproportionately, who now receive piped water one day
every forty days.  Second, the project will improve the living conditions of rural poor through the
provision of potable water, school rooms, demonstration irrigation schemes to improve irrigation
efficiency and high-yield cropping patterns, and organized cooperatives at the community level to help
address other socio-economic needs.
2.22      Moreover, provision of clean, reliable water will improve the welfare of women and
children. In the absence of piped water supplies, the responsibility of providing water for use at home
rests on women and children (mostly girls). In rural areas, women often walk long distances to fetch
water in plastic containers. The project will reduce time spent by women and children in carrying water.
The distribution networks and location of stand posts and washing stations of rural water supplies will
be designed taking into account local conditions and cultural traditions. The project includes a pilot
program of WID activities in two very poor villages to obtain experience in such types of initiatives for
use in future water development projects. WID activities will initially include: literacy, mother and child
health care, hygiene and first aid, water conservation and waste management (night soil, sullage and
domestic refuse management) programs. In the second year, the program will include income generation
activities for women and men in the same villages to improve the economic conditions of poor families.
The WID component will provide implementation experience for use in replicating similar initiatives
elsewhere in the country.
Project Sustainability
2.23      The Project is consistent with the evolving national water resources management strategy that
emphasizes attaining sustainable use of this scarce resource. To this end, the Project requires that water
taken from Habir area will be limited to the amount of safe yield (para 4.3). Well pumps have been sized
based on this criterion and equipment for aquifer monitoring is included in the Project to verify well field
performance. Participation of local communities and other stakeholders (NWRA) in overseeing the
management and operation of the Habir wells is an important part of the project design and will also help
to ensure sustainable water use over time. Studies to examine other potential sources of water are also
included in the Project, but again with the provision that only sustainable yields will be exploited from
any sources identified.



12                                                              Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project
2.24.     The long-term financial viability of the rural and Taiz water supply schemes will be addressed
through studies and TA to determine appropriate tariffs to achieve this goal. In January 1996, NWSA
raised water and wastewater tariffs by about 50 percent, and preliminary indications are that future
revenues will allow NWSA to become overall self-financing (to cover O&M, debt-service and a
contribution to financing new investments). In Taiz, the financial situation is complicated by the
persistent lack of water with which to generate sales, but the Project (including the studies to identify
additional water sources for the city) will significantly increase bulk water availability over the next five
years and should, therefore, provide the basis for establishing a sustainable revenue stream for the
eventual private sector operator. The Taiz NWSA Branch's long-term financial issues will be addressed
in detail as part of the management contract preparation under the Project.
III. IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES AND PROJECT OPERATION
AND MAINTENANCE
Implementing Agencies
3.1        NWSA is responsible for the provision of water and wastewater services in urban areas in
the country. NWSA was established in 1973 by Law No. 13.
3.2        NWSA's functions range from establishing policies and plans to operation and maintenance
of water and sanitation services. The headquarters, located in Sana'a, designs and supervises construction
of systems from rehabilitation to new works, which are turned over to the branch offices for operation
and maintenance. NWSA headquarters reports directly to the Ministry of Electricity and Water (MOEW)
and its 22 regional branches report to the director general at headquarters. The branch offices enjoy some
degree of autonomy in the day-to-day business, however, major decisions are taken at headquarters.
3.3        For several years, NWSA has incurred financial losses, largely as a result of tariff
adjustments not having kept pace with inflation, operational inefficiencies, and the persistent lack of
water. The last audit report prepared by a private audit firm was in 1993, which shows losses of about
YRs 352 million, equivalent to about US$ 29 million at the 1993 official exchange rate (US$1 =YR 12),
or about 50 percent of the total expenditures (including debt service). The financial performance
estimates for the succeeding years also show that NWSA's financial condition is continuously
deteriorating. In line with the recent IMF's stabilization program and the Economic Recovery Credit
(IDA 2840-YEM), the Government adjusted the water tariff by about 50 percent, effective January 1996,
which is expected to help NWSA meet its 1996 operating costs. The issues of financial viability will be
addressed under the proposed Phase II project (para. 3.8).
3.4        NWSA's performance is poor due to economic and political factors (para. 1.1). Although
legally it is a semi-autonomous authority, it has lost autonomy and it now functions as a department of
the Ministry. However, a Steering Committee and a Technical Secretariat have been established (para.
1.6) to review and recommend major policy changes to reform the National Water and Sanitation
Authority.  Currently, a study to reform NWSA, coordinated by the Technical Secretariat, is ongoing
with IDA's and other donors' support. The alternative of establishing regional autonomous authorities
is being considered under which NWSA would become a policy and planning agency under MOEW. The
Regional Water and Sewerage Authorities would be established under the auspices of governors.
Presently, the Local Government Law is under review to enable local Governments to introduce such
water sector reforms.



Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project                                                      13
3.5        SURDU is one of several regional rural development organizations under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Resources (MOAWR). SURDU was established in the late 1970's to be
responsible for agricultural and rural development in the southern region of Yemen. Development
programs include agriculture extension services, rural water supply schemes, literacy and family health
programs, women in development programs, and, recently, rural roads programs. SURDU is structured
in the following operational sections: administration; engineering; operation and maintenance; water
supply; irrigation; training; and women in development. SURDU program is being funded by IDA, the
Swiss Government and IFAD. And most recently, UNCDF/UNDP has funded a roads component under
the rural Feeder Roads and Agricultural Support Services Project (YEM-91-C06) to link rural roads in
the former North and South Yemen to integrate rural communities in those areas. SURDU is also
responsible for implementing in the southern region some components of the Land and Water
Conservation Project.
3.6        NWRA, established in October 1995 by Presidential Decree No. 154, is a semi-autonomous
agency charged with water resources management. It reports directly to the Prime Minister and works
closely with sectoral ministries. A chairman was appointed in April 1996 and since then several
departments from sectoral ministries and the former High Water Council have been integrated into it.
The UNDP- and Dutch-funded technical assistance programs on water resources management are now
under the direct supervision of NWRA. Although NWRA is a new institution, it has brought under its
management structure experienced staff from sectoral ministries. For example, the Hydrogeology
Department (staff and resources) under the Geologic Survey Authority of the Ministry of Oil and Mineral
Resources is now under NWRA. This staff will assume full responsibility for the ground water
exploration program included in the project. NWRA will play an important role in developing water
resources policy and in coordinating the participation of local communities in water allocation,
conservation and monitoring.
Operation and Maintenance
3.7       In the short term, NWSA will be responsible for O&M of the Taiz water supply facilities.
However, in the proposed second phase project such activities will be included under the proposed private
sector management contract. SURDU will organize and provide support to rural community cooperatives
to assume full responsibility in the O&M of rural water supply schemes and irrigation schemes. It will
also provide technical assistance in estimating minimum charges for O&M and on the administration of
such funds by the community cooperatives. During negotiations, agreement was reached that SURDU will
provide technical support and training to rural cooperatives for the proper operation and maintenance of
the new infrastructure provided under the project.
Cost Recovery and Affordability
3.8       The proposed first phase project, Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project, will provide only urgently
needed water supply for Taiz. Therefore, cost recovery issues (correcting management and physical
inefficiencies, providing additional water supply, improving billing and collection, and adjusting water
and sewerage tariffs) will be addressed under the proposed second phase operation, Taiz Water and
Sanitation Project, now under preparation.
3.9        Regarding cost recovery of rural infrastructure, SURDU will develop estimates of water
charges by local cooperatives responsible for the maintenance of such facilities. During the experimental
period of the irrigation demonstration project, SURDU will develop both investment and O&M costs for
future use in the design of such schemes and for use by agriculture cooperatives. SURDU will also
develop O&M manuals and provide technical assistance to the agriculture cooperatives. However,



14                                                              Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project
investments in irrigation schemes will be measured in terms of productivity gains to recover at least O&M
costs. Socio-economic studies will be carried out to recommend a framework for consideration in future
projects. During negotiations, agreement was reached that SURDU will provide technical assistance to
rural cooperatives to develop cost-recovery measures to cover at least O&M of rural infrastructure
provided under the project; and by December 31, 1997, the proposed program for O&M of rural
infrastructure by local cooperatives will be furnished to IDA for review, and thereafter the program will
be carried out, taking IDA's comments thereon into account.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Benerits
4.1    Project benefits include: (i) mitigation of water scarcity in Taiz which will help reduce potential
health crises due to unsanitary conditions resulting from water shortages; (ii) reduction of stress on the
area's aquifers (by reducing over extraction by about 10 percent); (iii) provision of water to low- income
families (about 25 percent of Taiz population) who cannot afford the high price set by private water
vendors; (iv) development of a framework for participation of rural communities to improve the
management of water resources (by establishing local community associations to participate in
management of water resources; (v) formulation of a mechanism of incentives to rural communities
(representing about 3000 families) to enable water transfers to urban areas under the principles of
integrated water management; and (vi) development of a regional water management plan to prevent
uncontrolled development in the Hadramawt area.
Risks
4.2    There are three main project risks. First, although the rural communities have already agreed
to the transfer of water to Taiz and to the compensation package for the transfer, they may later request
to modify the accord in such a way as to make it unworkable. To reduce this risk, the Government and
IDA have spent considerable resources making sure that the agreed arrangement is both reasonable and
sustainable. Further, it is likely that modifications of the agreement will later be necessary to account
for changing circumstances and, therefore, constructing an open channel for ongoing negotiations was
an objective in the design of this component. In this regard, the Steering Committee already discussed
(para. 2.14) will oversee the implementation of the agreement and serve as an ongoing forum for
discussion and problem resolution.
4.3    The second risk is that water extraction will exceed the agreed sustainable yield of the effected
aquifers. Mining of the groundwater would not only reduce the amount of water available to both Taiz
and rural communities, it would also have an adverse impact on performance of the private sector
management contract. To reduce this risk, safe yields of the aquifers have been established for the Habir
well field and agreed with NWSA and NWRA. Actual abstractions will be monitored with equipment
provided by the Project, and monitoring activities will be sanctioned on a regular basis by stakeholders
(NWRA, NWSA and representatives of the local communities). A study of one small dike for ground
water recharge is also part of the Project. If the study proves that construction of a recharge dike is
feasible, consideration would be given to fund such a project under the second phase project for Taiz.



Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project                                                          15
Finally, the Project contains resources to study and identify alternative sources of water for Taiz to be
developed under Phase II. This additional water will also help to insure that there is less exploitation of
the wells developed under Phase I.
4.4    The third risk is that the Government may be unable to put in place the management contract for
Taiz, thus undermining the sustainability of the Project. The pilot nature of the project has been chosen
to address this risk by ensuring that an effective institutional framework is implemented in Phase II of
the strategy.
Economic Analysis
4.5    The Project's economic rate of return (ERR) is about 55 percent under Base Case assumptions.
As described fully in Annex 8 and the Project File, the economic analysis models a series of cost and
benefit streams under the Project to provide urban and rural potable water and rural irrigation water.
Technical Assistance and Studies, as well as components targeted to addressing women's poverty issues,
are also included as part of the overall analysis. The analysis makes modest assumptions for unaccounted
for water percentages (decreasing from the current rate at 50 percent to 25 percent in year seven), and
attempts to realistically portray O&M and energy costs, equipment replacement, benefits from the rural
potable water and irrigation components and implementation speed. For the urban potable water portion
of the analysis, the city's demand curve for water was estimated using actual vendor and NWSA prices,
thereby allowing total benefits and the per cubic meter value for water delivered under the Project to be
calculated. This methodology results in a relatively high value for water delivered to Taiz compared to
existing tariffs and is, therefore, an important contribution to the Project's ERR. However, this value
is well below observed vendor prices in Taiz and is, therefore, considered a reasonable calculation for
use in the Base Case model.
4.6    The sensitivity of the Project's ERR was tested under three scenarios. Scenario A tests the
Project using the risks outlined in paras. 4.2 to 4.4. In this context, the amount of water allowed to go
to Taiz is reduced, the value of compensation requested by the rural population increased, and the
quantity of water flowing from the wells is reduced to simulate over-exploitation. Under the second
scenario (Scenario B), costs are increased by 15 percent and benefits delayed by three years in order to
model both construction cost and implementation uncertainty. Finally, Scenario C takes into account that
the value of water (as described in the previous paragraph) going to Taiz from Habir could be over
estimated. In this analysis, the value of water is set at NWSA's current marginal tariff for domestic
customers and then adjusted upwards gradually throughout the first seven years of Project life to reflect
modest rate increases.
4.7    Table 4.1 shows the ERR under the Base Case and the three sensitivity scenarios.
Table 4.1: Summary of Economic Rates of Return
Scenario              ERR (%)
Base Case                 55
A                     27
B                     23
C                      5



16                                                           Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.1   The following agreements were reached during negotiations and recorded in the Credit
documents:
(a)   the Government will implement the strategy to alleviate the Taiz water crisis as recorded
in the Policy Letter (para. 1.10);
(b)   the Government will implement the Project (paras. 2.1-2.5), in accordance with the
agreed financing (para. 2.6) and procurement arrangements (para. 2.7);
(c)   the Project will be implemented by NWSA, SURDU and NWRA in accordance with
agreed implementation arrangements. The Governor of Ibb will establish and thereafter
maintain a Steering Committee within one month after effectiveness of the Credit
Agreement. NWSA and NWRA will maintain Project Management Units to oversee
implementation of their respective components of the Project. SURDU will appoint a
project manager with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to IDA within one
month after effectiveness of the Credit Agreement (paras. 2.12, 2.13 and 2.15);
(d)   that each implementing agency will open a Special Account, maintain separate Project
Accounts, and carry out annual independent audits (para. 2.16).
(e)   there will be a mid-term review of the Project by April 30, 1997 (para. 2.17).
(f)    NWSA will prepare the management contract documents for its Taiz Branch by January
31, 1997 and will issue the ICB announcement by March 31, 1997 (para. 2.18);
(g)    SURDU will provide technical support and training to rural cooperatives for the proper
operation and maintenance of new infrastructure provided under the project (para. 3.7);
and
(h)    SURDU will provide technical assistance to rural cooperatives to develop cost recovery
measures (para. 3.9) and will furnish a proposed program for O&M of rural
infrastructure for IDA review by December 31, 1997; thereafter, the program will be
carried out, taking IDA comments thereon into account.
5.2   The understandings reached under para. 5.1 above, will make the project suitable for an IDA
Credit in the amount of SDR 7.1 million to the Government of the Republic of Yemen on IDA terms,
with a 40-year maturity, including 10 years grace.



Annex I
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A detailed project description by implementing agency is given below:
A. Habir Well Field Development (by NWSA)
(i)    Construction of eight (8) 300 meter-deep wells for Taiz (and one well for Al Qaidah
town), provision of submersible pumping equipment, water meter, piping and
accessories,  well head and accessories, standby power generation, electricity
transformers and switch gear, and well structure and housing;
(ii)   Provision of three aquifer monitoring wells, each about 250 meters deep, 150 mm
Diameter (I.D.), to be located within 100 meters from the Habir well field, and water
level measuring equipment;
(iii)   Provision of about 2.5 km of 150 mm diameter; about 8.0 km of 200 mm diameter; and
about 7.0 Ian of 300 mm diameter steel pipe to connect the new Habir field with the
existing transmission pipeline from Al Haima well field to Taiz;
(iv)   Replacement of three electric generators at NWSA power generation station and
construction of about 10 km of power transmission overhead line from the existing power
line in Al Haima well field to the Habir well field;
(v)    Provision of potable water and technical assistance to local cooperatives (on O&M and
management), to service about ten villages in East Habir and West Habir (amount based
on a daily per capita demand of 50 liters), to be serviced from the Habir transmission
pipeline, and consisting of service pumping stations, storage tanks and distribution piping
with public taps strategically located in the villages; and
(vi)   Preparation of tender documents for a private management contract for NWSA Taiz
Branch, drafted by IDA and NWSA, implemented by NWSA with the assistance of
consultants, and preparation of design and tender documents for the rehabilitation and
upgrading of Taiz and Al Qaidah water supply and wastewater systems.
B. Rural Infrastructure (by SURDU)
(i)    Provision of rural water supply schemes and technical assistance to local cooperatives on
O&M and management, to service about twenty villages in Al Haima area (sized based
on daily per capita demand of 50 liters), to be serviced from NWSA water transmission
pipeline from Al Haima area to Taiz, and consisting of service pumping stations, water
storage tanks and distribution piping with public taps at strategic places in villages;



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
(ii)    Provision of two demonstration irrigation schemes and technical assistance and extension
services, one for East Habir Agriculture Cooperative and the other for West Habir
Agriculture Cooperative, consisting each of a well (250 mm I.D. and about 200 meters
deep), pumping equipment (maximum capacity of 30 cubic meters per hour) and diesel
power engine, water meter, well head and accessories, well water level monitoring
installations, and about 5.0 km of steel pipes ranging in size from 100 mm. to 200 mm.
for irrigation water distribution per scheme;
(iii)   Development of a pilot program for women activities, to be implemented in two poor
villages in Lower Al Haima area, consisting initially of: a literacy program, education
in mother and child health care, hygiene and first aid, water conservation and sanitation
(safe disposal of sullage, night soil and domestic refuse); and in the second year,
consisting of income generation activities for women and men working closely with other
donor-sponsored activities for micro lending;
(iv)   Undertaking feasibility studies for a possible recharge dike in Habir area and for a dam
in Wadi Warazan as a potential water source for urban and rural development; studies
will be carried out in three stages: socio-economic (including 3-km upstream and about
50-km downstrean riparians); hydrologic studies (three years duration of stream flow and
rainfall records in the catchment area); and geologic, environmental, engineering,
financial and economic studies for a proposed dam and regional water supply scheme.
Each stage will be carried out only if the previous stage study proves to be feasible; and
(v)    Construction of a three-classroom addition to Hajr Bin School in Habir area.
C. Water Sources Studies (by NWRA)
(i)    Undertaking ground water exploration studies in the Taiz region for the water supply of
the city of Taiz to be carried out in three stages: reconnaissance study; geophysical
survey; and exploratory drilling and testing;
(ii)    Undertaking ground water exploration in Wadi Rasyan to complement water management
plans for the Taiz region and the city of Taiz; and
(iii)   Undertaking a study in Wadi Masila in Hadramawt area to complement water
management plans for the rational development of Hadramawt area funded by other
donors.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
%      % Total
(Rial '000)                         (USS 000)               Foreign    Base
Local       Foreign       Total       Local    Foreign       Total    Exchange   Costs
1. Well Field Development   89,134.5    396,935.5    486,070.0       685.7    3,053.4     3,739.0       82       38
2. Rural Infrastructure     70,460.0    186,940.0    257,400.0       542.0    1,438.0     1,980.0       73       20
3. TA & Studies             82,602.0    465,998.0    548,600.0       635.4    3,584.6     4,220.0       85       42
Total BASELINE COSTS         242,196.':  1,049,873.5  1,292,070.0    1,863.1    8,076.0     9,939.0       81      100
Physical Contingencies       12,109.8     48,242.7     60,352.5       93.2      371.1      464.3        80        5
Price Contingencies         70,420.1      18,259.2     88,679.3      541.7     140.5       682.1        21        7
Total PROJECT COSTS          324,726.5  1,116,375.4  1,441,101.8    2,497.9    8,587.5    11,085.4        77      112



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Table 1. Well Field Development
Parameters (in %)
Totals Including Contingencies  Totals Including Contingencies    Phy.
(Rial 000)                      (US$000)            Cont.  For.  Gross
1997     1998    1999    Total    1997   1998  1999   Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Well Drilling            25,429.7  13,294.5     -  38.724.3   195.6  102.3       -   297.9   5.0  89.0    5.0
Well Housing             22,619.0  9,184.5      -  31,803.6   174.0  70.7        -   244.6   5.0  22.0    5.0
Pipe Installation        60,817.2        -      -  60,817.2   467.8       -      -   467.8   5.0   5.0    5.0
Power Line Installation   8,362.4        -      -   8,362.4    64.3       -      -    64.3   5.0  10.0    5.0
Subtotal Civil Works      117,228.4  22,479.0     - 139,707.4   901.8  172.9      -  1,074.7
B. Equipment
Pumps and Motors         49,877.1        -      -  49,877.1   383.7       -      -   383.7   5.0  95.0    5.0
Standby Power Generators   33,332.4      -      -  33,332.4   256.4       -      -   256.4   5.0  94.0    5.0
NWSA Rplcmnt. Generators  41,766.8       -      -  41,766.8   321.3       -      -   321.3   5.0  93.0    5.0
Power Transmission Line   13,854.8       -      -  13,854.8   106.6       -      -   106.6   5.0  95.0    5.0
Piping, Fitting & Valves    153,095.0    -      - 153,095.0  1,177.7      -      -  1,177.7   5.0  95.0    5.0
Well Heads & Accessories  9,745.6        -      -   9,745.6    75.0       -      -    75.0   5.0  93.0    5.0
Subtotal Equipment        301,671.7        -      - 301,671.7  2,320.6     -      - 2,320.6
C. Well Field Identification  85,020.0     -      -  85,020.0   654.0      -      -   654.0    0 0  100.0    0.0
D. Project Management       7,105.6        -      -   7,105.6    54.7      -      -    54.7   5.0  80.0   10.0
Total                       511,025.7  22,479.0    - 533,504.7  3,931.0  172.9      - 4,103.9



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Table 2. Rural Infrastructure
Parameters (in %)
Totals Including Contingencies     Totals Including Contingencies    Phy.
(Rial 000)                         (US$000)             Cont.  For.   Gross
1997     1998      1999      Total    1997   1998  1999   Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
School Rooms                3,412.5        -        -   3,412.5    26.3       -      -    26.3    5.0    0.0    5.0
Potable Water System Install.  23,893.1  50,717.6   -  74,610.7   183.8  390.1       -   573.9    5.0    7.0    5.0
Irrigation Wells            8,556.0  9,342.8        -  17,898.8    65.8  71.9        -   137.7   5.0   83.0    5.0
Irrigation Piping           4,265.6  6,142.5        -  10,408.1    32.8  47.3        -    80.1    5.0    0.0    10.0
Subtotal Civil Works        40,127.2  66,202.9        - 106,330.1   308.7  509.3       -   817.9
B. Equipment
Booster Pumps              16,747.3        -        -   16,747.3   128.8      -      -   128.8    5.0   92.0    5.0
Power Supply               16,747.3        -        -  16,747.3   128.8       -      -   128.8   5.0   92.0    5.0
Well Pumps & Drives        22,572.8        -        -  22,572.8   173.6       -      -   173.6    5.0   87.5    5.0
Piping, Fitting & Valves  104,603.4        -        - 104,603.4   804.6       -      -   804.6    5.0   95.0    5.0
Surveying & Office Equip.   2,771.0        -        -   2,771.0    21.3       -      -    21.3    5.0  95.0    5.0
Vehicles                    6.927.4        -        -   6,927.4    53.3       -      -    53.3    5.0   95.0    5.0
Subtotal Equipment         170,369.0        -         - 170,369.0  1,310.5      -      -  1,310.5
C. Women In Development      4,850.6   5,603.7  6,593.4  17,047.7    37.3  43.1  50.7   131.1    5.0   70.0    5.0
D. Project Management        4,876.9  6,435.9   4.365.5  15,678.3    37.5  49.5  33.6   120.6   5.0   90.0    10.0
Total                        220,223.7  78,242.6  10,958.8  309,425.1  1,694.0  601.9  84.3  2,380.2



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Table 3. Studies and Technical Assistance
Totals Including Contingencies    Totals Including Contingencies    Phy.
(Rial 000)                        (US$000)              Cont.  For.  Gross
1997      1998    1999    Total      1997    1998   1999   Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate
L. Investment Costs
A. Studies
Taiz Water Sources Exploration   217,980.4  51,389.1   - 269,369.6  1,676.8  395.3        -  2,072.1    5.0   82.0   10.0
Wadi Warazon Study              14,211.2  23,122.2     -  37,333.4    109.3  177.9        -   287.2    5.0   80.0   10.0
Hadrarnawt Study               41,564.3         -      -  41.564.3    319.7       -       -   319.7    5.0   90.0   10.0
Subtotal Studies                273,755.9  74,511.3      - 348,267.2  2,105.8  573.2       -  2,679.0
B. Technical AssistanCe
Phase 11 Designs & Preparation   223,101.7      -      - 223,101.7  1,716.2       -       -  1,716.2    5.0   87.5   10.0
Management Contract Prep.       19,396.7        -      -  19,396.7    149.2       -       -    149.2    5.0   95.0    5.0
Training                        3,552.8   3,853.7      -   7,406.5      27.3   29.6       -    57.0    5.0   80.0   10.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance   246.051.1   3,853.7      - 249,904.8  1,892.7   29.6       -  1,922.3
Total                             519,807.0  78,365.0      - 598,172.0  3,998.5  602.8       -  4,601.3



Annex 3
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
FY 1997   _FY1998_          FY1999_
Activities                                                       1  2    2        3    4  12341   2  3  4
1.  Habir Well Field
- Drilling                                                                                            _
- Well Equipment
- Supply                                                 . - -------
- Installation
-Piping
- SUpply                                           -       ._______
- Installation
2.  Habir Rural Water Supply Schemes                           -------------                         =  =
3.  Al Haima Water Supply Schemes                                      _ -                _-_-_--- -
4.  Habir Irrigation Schemes _Z_ 
- Well Drilling                                       ---------
- Wel Eq_=pment
- supply                                                     -    ----
- Installation
- Irrigation Piping
-Supply                                                -  -------
- Installation                                                 -- --------. =
- Technical Assistance                                             I-----------    ----------------
5.  WID Program                                             - _ _ _ __
6.  Studies
- Wadi Warazan                                           ---------------
- Habir Area Dike                                        -11 1||11
- Hadramawt Area                                         ------------ -I---
- Ground Water for Taiz                                      I   I   I
- Phase I                                              -----
- Phase 11                                                             |       |                     _
-   Phase  III                                               -- - --------
- Wadi Rasyan Regional                                     -----------                       
7.  Technical Assistance for Preparation of:                                    -      -      - r        -  ___rr
- Management Contract                                         ------------
- Taiz Second Phase                                         -------------



Annex 4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION FORECAST
(Staffweeks)
Specialist         j   FY97          FY98        FY99
Sr. Sanitary Engineer               6            4           2
Private Sector/Financial            6            4           2
Hydrogeologist                      6            4           2
Socio-Economist                     2            2           2
Irrigation Engineer                 2            2           2
Agronomist                          2            2           2
Water Resources                     2            2           2
TOTAL                       26           20           14



Annex S
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ mniflion)
IDA Fiscal Year          Quarterly            Cumulative            Disbursement
Quarter Ending        Disbursements          Disbursements           % of Total
FY97
September 30, 1996            0.00                  0.00                   0.0
December 31, 1996             1.00 "                1.00                   9.8
March 31, 1997                1.30                  2.30                  22.5
June 30, 1997                 1.20                  3.50                  34.3
FY98
September 30, 1997            1.00                  4.50                  44.1
Dececember 31, 1997           1.50                  6.00                  58.8
March 31, 1998                1.20                  7.20                  70.6
June 30, 1998                 1.30                  8.50                  83.3
FY99
September 30, 1998            0.50                   9.00                 88.2
December 31, 1998             0.40                   9.40                 92.2
March 31, 1999                0.30                   9.70                 95.1
June 30, 1999                 0.30                  10.00                 98.0
FY2000
September 30, 1999            0.10                  10.10                  99.0
December 31, 1999             0.10                  10.20                 100.0
March 31, 2000                0.00                  10.20                 100.0
June 30, 2000                 0.00                  10.20                 100.0
I/    Includes US$0.7 million under the Project Preparation Facility.






Annex 6
Page I of 6
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ACTION PLAN AND MONITORING INDICATORS
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (BY NWSA)
1.    NWSA will establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) in Taiz, headed by a full-time project
manager who will assume full responsibility for all aspects of the project, and staffed with two engineers,
an accountant, two drivers, a technician, and a secretary. Two 4-WD vehicles will be assigned to the
project as well as office equipment (telephone, fax, computer, photocopier), and office facilities. The
project manager will coordinate with NWRA and SURDU and will provide all necessary support and
information as required for an expeditious project execution. NWSA will work closely with SURDU and
NWRA in locating the proposed irrigation wells. In this regard, hydrogeologists of both agencies will
exchange information and discuss in a collegial manner the best alternative options and specifications for
wells. Also, based on information provided by SURDU for the location of water tap connections in the
Al Haima transmission pipe, NWSA will install the connections with valves, which will be extended to
about ten meters from the transmission pipe to enable SURDU to extend the service to the villages.
NWSA will also provide power service from its transmission line for the service pumping stations where
required. SURDU will provide the required transformers and electric switch gear at each service
pumping station. NWSA will work closely with NWRA on those aspects of well design, monitoring and
reporting. NWSA will be responsible for operating and maintaining the production and monitoring wells
and report to NWRA on a monthly basis. NWSA project manager will be responsible for coordinating
with the Project Steering Committee established by the Governor of Ibb to keep local communities in
Habir well informed before any major work is executed. This aspect of the project is of utmost
importance to avoid any misunderstandings of local farmers who could delay project execution. In this
regard, implementation of the rural water supply schemes in Habir will be done in parallel with the Taiz
water supply. NWSA will implement the project components under its responsibility in accordance with
the following implementation schedule:
B. NWSA's ACTION PLAN
Procurement Stage  Well Equipment      Pipes & Access.     Civil Works   Power Supply
Draft Bid Doc.      06/30/96            06/30/96             08/15/96     09/23/96
IDA Review          07/07/96            07/07/96             08/23/96     09/30/96
Announce Bids       07/15/96            07/15/96             08/30/96      10/06/96
Open Bids           08/21/96            08/21/96             09/30/96      11/10/96
Evaluate Bids       08/31/96            08/31/96             10/10/96      11/24/96
IDA Review          09/12/96            09/12/96             10il7/96      12/05/96
Award Contract      09/15/96            09/15/96             10/20/96      12/08/96
Sign Contract       10/22/96             10/22/96            10/24/96      12/12/96
Mobilization           -                   -                 11/24/96
Completion          12/22/96             12/22/96            04/24/97     02/12/97



Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
C. NWSA's PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
2.    The following performance indicators will be used to monitor NWSA's execution of the project:
(i)  Input Indicators:
(a) Funds allocated                       US$5.32 (includes YR equivalent)
(b) Length of pipes supplied              20 km
(c) Number of wells                       8
(ii) Output Indicators:
(a) Water production, Cubic Meters/day     12,000
(b) Number of villages served              10
(c) Taiz population served                 120,000
(d) Rural population served               4,700
(e) Complete bidding documents for        satisfactory
a management contract
(iii) Outcome Indicators:
(a) Reduction of Taiz water rationing      50% (1 day in 15 to 20 days)
(b) Satisfaction of Habir rural population  100%
(c) Implementation of management contract    yes
(iv) Impact Indicators:
(a) Participation of rural communities
in water resources allocation           successful
(b) Relieve stress on Al Haima aquifer    satisfactory (by reducing over-extraction
by 10 percent)
(c) Successful management contract        yes
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (BY SURDU)
3.    SURDU will appoint a project manager, technical and administrative staff to work full-time on
the project. An allowance in local currency has been included in the cost of the project for incentives
and costs incurred by SURDU staff. A budget for running cost and purchase of surveying and office
equipment has also been provided. SURDU will hire consultants as needed to complement its staff.
SURDU will hire local experts on social and economic sciences, in accordance with the terms of
reference approved by IDA, to provide technical support to rural community associations or cooperatives
to strengthen their organization and management capabilities, particularly on their role in water resources
management. The technical assistance will be extended to agricultural and irrigation practices to promote
water conservation. SURDU staff will design, prepare tender documents, procure, award contracts and
supervise construction. SURDU already have sufficient number of vehicles, however, a provision has
been made in the running cost for fleet maintenance. Also, a provision of about US$50,000 has been
included in the cost of the irrigation schemes to purchase spare parts for the equipment to be used in the
project. The project will be implemented over a period of three years, however, SURDU will make all
efforts to complete it earlier. The project will be implemented according to the following schedule.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
E. SURDU's ACTION PLAN
Sub-Project                                Start         Complete       Remarks
1. Water Supply:
Prepare Design                       05/11/96       06/30/96
Prepare ICB Documents                06/16/96       07/11/96
IDA Approval                         07/16/96       07/19/96
Announce/Receive Tenders             07/22/96       08/29J96
Evaluate Tenders                     08/31/96       09/26/96
IDA Approval                         09/30/96       10/06/96
Award/Sign Contract                   10/09/96      10/13/96
Mobilization                          10/14/96      11/10/96
Construction                          11/10/96      11/09/97
2. Irrigation Wells
and Irrigation Equipment:
Prepare Design                       05/18/96       06/30/96
Prepare NIB Documents                06/16/96       07/11/96
IDA Approval                         07/16/96       07/19/96
Invite/Receive Tenders               07/22/96       08/29/96
Evaluate Tenders                     08/31/96       09/26/96
IDA Approval                         09/30/96       10/06/96
Award/Sign Contract                  10/09/96       10/13/96
Mobilization                          10/14/96      11/10/96
Construction                          11/10/96      01/16/97
3. Irrigation Schemes:
Prepare Design                       05/18/96       06/30/96
Prepare NCB Documents                06/16/96       07/14/96
IDA Review                           07/18/96       07/22/96
Announce/Receive Tenders             07/23/96       08/31/96
Evaluate Tenders                     09/01/96       09/29/96
IDA Approval                          10/07/96      10/14/96
Award/Sign Contract                   10/31/96      11/17/96
Mobilization                          11/18/96      12/15/96
Construction                          12/15/96      03/16/97
4. Women Activities:
Prepare 1st phase Work Program       06/01/96       07/25/96
IDA Review                           07/29/96       08/02/96
Implement 1st Phase Program          08/11/96       07/31/97
Prepare 2nd Phase Work Program       01/05/97       02/27/97
IDA Review                           03/10/97       03/31/97
Implement 2nd Phase Program          04/06/97       05/31/99
Review Workshop                      06/15/99       09/15/99



Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
F. SURDU's PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
4.    The following performance indicators will be used to monitor SURDU's execution of the project:
(i)  Input Indicators:
(a) Funds allocated                        US$2.67 million (includes YR part)
(b) Length of pipes supplied               65,000 meters
(c) Number of service pumping stations     15
(d) Number of water tanks                  20
(e) Socio-economic studies                 2
(f) WID programs (1 per village)           2
(g) Number of irrigation wells             4
(ii)  Output Indicators:
(a) Number of village water schemes        20
(b) Number of people serviced              14,940
(c) Number of women beneficiaries          140
(iii) Outcome Indicators:
(a) Number of households satisfied         2450
(b) Number of women literate               100
(c) Number of beneficiaries trained        140
(d) Number of cooperatives trained         20
(iv) Impact Indicators:
(a) Number of man-month locally employed    3200
during construction
(b) Number of men temporarily employed     1100
in construction
(c) Number of women hours saved per year    876,000
by provision of water supply
(d) Equivalent YR input to local economy   YR19.2 million
during implementation of the project
(2 years)
G. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (BY NWRA)
5.    NWRA will establish a PMU and appoint a project manager supported by technical and
administrative staff to work on the project. An allowance in local currency has been included in the cost
of the project for incentives and costs incurred by NWRA staff. A budget for running cost and purchase
of up two 4-WD vehicles and office equipment has also been provided. NWRA will hire consultants to
carry out studies. NWRA staff will prepare tender documents, procure, award contracts and supervise
drilling contractors. The project will be implemented over a period of three years, however, NWRA will
make all efforts to complete it earlier. The project will be implemented according to the following
schedule.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
I. NWRA's ACTION PLAN
Sub-Project                     Start        Complete         Remarks
1. Ground Water Exploration for Taiz:
Phases I & ll exploration          07/01/96      10/10/96
Phase III Drilling & Testing
(a) Procurement:
Prepare NCB Documents           06/23/96     07/23/96
IDA Review                      07/29/96     08/02/96
Announce/Receive Tenders        09/01/96     10/06/96     May  issue  addenda
during tendering based
on results of study.
Evaluate Tenders                10/07/96     10/16/96
IDA Review                      10/21/96     10125/96
Award/Sign Contract             10/28/96     11/07/96
(b) Drilling & Testing:             11/24/96     05/24/97
2. Exploration in Wadi Rasyan:
(a) Procurement of Drilling & Testing
IDA Review of Bid Documents     05/06/96     05/17/96
Announce/Receive Tenders        07/14/96     08/15/96
Evaluate Tenders                08/18/96     09/04/96
IDA Review                      09/09/96     09/13/96
Award/Sign Contract             09/15/96     09/19/96
(b) Drilling & Testing              10/13/96     03/13/97
3. Shopping of Vehicles/Office Equipment:
Prepare specifications          06/01/96     06/16/96
Invite/Receive Tenders          07/14/96     07/28/96
Evaluate Tenders                07/29/96     08/08/96
Award/Sign Contract             08/11/96     08/18/96
4. Hadramawt Study:
Prepare Tender Documents        06/01/96     06/13/96
IDA Review                      06/18/96     06/24/96
Invite/Receive Proposals        07/11/96     08/11/96
Evaluate Proposals              08/12/96     09/08/96
IDA Review                      09/13/96     09/20/96
Award/Sign Contract             09/22/96     10/06/96
Conduct Study                   10/06/96     01/06/97



Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
J. NWRA's PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
6.    The following indicators will be used to monitor NWRA's execution of the project:
(i)  Input Indicators:
(a) Funds allocated                        US$2.45 million (includes YR part)
(b) Drilling depth budgeted                4500 meters
(ii) Output Indicators:
(a) Number of areas investigated           7
(b) Number of wells tested                 14
(c) Number of water management studies     I
(iii) Outcome Indicators:
(a) Number of successful wells             To be determined
(b) Number of studies completed            1
(iv) Impact Indicators:
(a) Quantity of water developed (liters/sec)  A minimum of 250 lps (additional)
(b) Water management plans implemented     Yes



Annex 7
Page I of 8
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR STUDIES
A.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC STUDIES FOR WADI WARAZAN AND WADI Al JA'ASHIN DIKES
1.    Objective. The objective of the study is to determine the impact the proposed dikes in Wadi
Ja'ashin and Wadi Warazan would have on the social and economic structure of inhabitants living
downstream and upstream of the dikes.
2.    Scope.  The study will include an evaluation of the present social structure of the area and the
economic activities. It will assess the importance of agriculture to local economies and to what extent
it depends on wadi flows. The study area downstream would extend as far downstream as possible to
determine the use of flood flows by riparian. In the case of Wadi Ja'ashin dike, the area of study will
be limited to Wadi Al Haima. In the case of Wadi Warazan, the study will extend to at least 50 km
downstream and about 5 km upstream. The study will obtain data, such as population and composition
by sex and age, general economic setting and trends, sources of income, income distribution, employment
opportunities outside agriculture, social infrastructure (schools, health centers, water supply and
sanitation), and economic infrastructure (access roads, agriculture extension services, banking services).
The study will determine production costs of water, land ownership and tenure, break-down of production
cost for main crops, crop prices, conflicts on water and conflict resolution, attitude towards change, and
perceived problems regarding water. The study will explain local leadership and organization, outline
of public administration, and institutions related to water working in the area.
3.    Approach. Consultants will be hired in accordance with IDA guidelines. The study is estimated
to cost about US$80,000. The study will consist of data research and field surveys. The latter will cover
representative areas and families to enable extrapolating the analysis and assessment of perceived impacts
of the proposed dikes. Field interviews will be documented for future reference.
4.    Reports. The consultant will submit ten copies of a draft report for review by SURDU and IDA
within four months of signing the contract, and fifteen copies of the final report within six weeks from
the date official written comments are received by the consultant.
B.    WOMEN's ACTIVITIES PILOT PROGRAM
5.    Objectives. The objectives of this program are two-fold: (i) to learn from experience about social
and economic activities which should be integrated in water development schemes to mitigate and
compensate for loss of water resources transferred from rural to urban areas; and (ii) to improve the
conditions of rural women, particularly when provision of rural water supply would free them from a
tedious and time-consuming chore enabling them to occupy their time in productive activities. The study
would also develop approaches and methodologies, evaluate acceptability of program by beneficiaries,
determine costs and requirements for sustainability and replicability in other areas facing similar situations
and with similar socio-economic characteristics.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 8
6.    Scope. The program would be implemented gradually in stages. In the design of the program,
SURDU will benefit from its experience in similar cases. In the first stage, which would extend for about
one year, the program would focus on literacy classes and training activities such as: hygiene, nutrition,
mother and child care, primary health and first aid, water conservation and awareness, and sanitation
(safe garbage, sullage and night soil disposal). In the second stage, which would extend for about two
years, the program would introduce income generating activities for both women and men in the villages.
Income generating activities include: animal husbandry, handcrafts, and micro-enterprises. Income
generation activities would be designed to provide technical assistance and training, basic management
skills, marketing support, and micro credit support. Regarding the latter, the WID extension workers
would seek the support of already established programs providing such credit facilities and would inform
and guide the beneficiaries in how to benefit from such facilities. The program would start modestly,
with a few families in one village to better assess the feasibility of such an approach.
7.    Pilot Area. The area selected to test the WID program would include two villages in lower Al
Haima, an area which suffered the most as a result of the collapse of Al Haima aquifer due to over
exploitation for the Taiz water supply and local irrigation. The following villages have been identified:
Shahrah (1017 inhabitants) and Rahbah (101 inhabitants).
8.    Study Duration.  The study would extend over a period of three years at the end of which a
workshop would be held to discuss the findings, conclusions and recommendations.
9.    Linkage to Other Activities. The program would attempt to coordinate and benefit from IDA
initiatives, such as the Social Fund and Public Works Program, which could provide financial support
to some of these activities. For instance, the Public Works Program could provide grant financing for
improving the access road to the two villages included in the WID program. Also, coordination with
activities sponsored by donors and NGOs would be considered.
C.  NWRA-REGIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT FOR HADRAMAWT AREA SCOPE
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR REGIONAL WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
STUDY IN WADI MASILA
Context NWRA Activities in Regional Water Resources Planning
10.   The actual NWRA activities in the development of regional water resources management systems
are carried out with technical and financial support of the UNDP/Dutch funded UNDDSMS executed
project YEM/93/010. The objective of the project related to these activities is:
Objective 3 Project YEM/93/010: To develop institutional capabilities for water resources planning at
regional and/or local levels.
11.   General framework of necessary activities:
Collect all available information and data existing about the area;
Satellite imagery and field surveys to fill information gaps (inventory of water points,
piezometric and water quality monitoring campaigns, socio-economic surveys, hydro-
geological surveys, land-use surveys);



Annex 7
Page 3 of 8
Preparation of relevant synthetic information;
Identification and analysis of possible strategies consisting of various demand and supply
management measures for an optimal development of available water resources;
Preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment of the proposed measures, evaluating
the economic, social and environmnental consequences;
Proposition of an efficient water resources management system to the relevant authorities
and water users to secure their participation in the decision-making and implementation
processes; and
*     Follow-up on the implementation of the devised water resources management system.
The water resources management study will be partly funded via the UNDP/Dutch Project YEM/93/010.
World Bank funding will be necessary for part of the studies, in particular the following three
components:
*     Socio-economic survey;
Satellite image study for land-use, agriculture/irrigation, environmental impact and
pollution control; and
*     Installation and operation of monitoring network.
Total cost of these three components is estimated at US$500,000. The detailed terms of reference and
budget will be worked out by NWRA for incorporation in the project and be available before the end of
July 1996.
D.    NWRA-WATER EXPLORATION  IN WADI RASYAN
UNDP/NETHERLANDS/UNDDSMS PROJECT YEM/93/010
Terms of Reference
12.   Under the supervision of the Chief Technical Advisor and the National Project Director, and in
cooperation with the project team, the contractor(s) is (are) required to perform the following task(s):
Component A: Hydrogeological Study
13.   On the basis of: (a) analysis of aerialand/or satellite photographs; (b) a geological field survey
paying special attention to the structural geology; (c) shallow geophysical survey; (d) analysis of
permanent springs and existing boreholes (well logs, additional aquifer testing of at least 10 but not to
exceed 25 boreholes) and hydrochemical analysis of 50 samples (boreholes and springs confounded); (e)
the preliminary results of a well inventory actually undertaken by the project; and (f) analysis of all
existing studies, the contractor should prepare a hydrogeological map on a 1:50,000 scale accompanied
by a detailed description of the hydrogeology and exploration potentials of the area. The maps should
include the information listed below for all phreatic and shallow captif aquifers. The contractor should
also produce an explanatory document in support of the maps with necessary definitions and explanations.



Annex 7
Page 4 of 8
Outcropping geological formation;
Fracturation network with not only the slope and dip, but also, if possible, the presumed
hydraulic characteristics of the fractures (water bearing fracture or hydraulic limit);
Geometrics of the quaternary aquifers;
Type (fractured or porous), depth and thickness of aquifers and aquifer systems;
Hydraulic heads in meters below ground level of all aquifers and aquifer systems;
Estimations of exploitable resources (renewable and reserves) as well as annual recharge
of all alluvial and fractured aquifers;
Hydraulic characteristics (transmissivity, storage coefficient) and boundary conditions for
all aquifers and aquifer systems;
Specific yield of existing boreholes;
Water chemistry; and
e      Permanent springs with exact location, water quality and estimated yield.
Component B: Deep Reconnaissance Study
14.    On the basis of analysis of existing borehole information, supplementary testing of existing
boreholes tapping the Tawilah sandstones and the Tertiary Volcanics and deep geophysical surveys of at
least the uppermost 500 meters duty supported by reconnaissance drilling to confirm the results of this
study, the contractor should produce a hydrogeological map at the scale of 1:100,000 showing all captive
aquifers in the study area. Special requirement is the identification of the probable extensions of the
Tawilah sandstones. The contractor should also produce an explanatory document in support of the maps
with necessary definitions and explanations. The maps should contain the following characteristics:
Depth to aquifer;
Estimate of aquifer thickness;
Hydraulic boundaries;
Hydraulic head in meters below ground level;
Estimations of total and extractable storage;
Estimations of hydraulic characteristics;
Estimations of specific yield; and
Water quality.



Annex 7
Page 5 of 8
Special Requirements
15.    The reconnaissance drilling should consist of, in principle, open boreholes with a diameter of 8"
and 6" casing and wellscreens where necessary, to be equipped in such a manner that they can be tested
with a 4-inch submersible pump and afterwards could be used as monitoring boreholes for a period of
at least ten years. The total length of drilling should not exceed 1500 meters for a maximum of 4
boreholes. For all boreholes, the following information will be required: (a) description of the drilling
process, including speed of drilling for each rock layer; (b) description of the lithology; (c) pumping test
of 72 hours; and (d) basic geophysical log (caliper, SP, resistivity (both short and long normal), natural
gamma ray) and a complete chemical analysis of the water quality. The contractor should provide in his
technical proposal a detailed description of drilling method and materials used. For the geophysical
survey, a description of the used method(s) is required as well as the estimated length of the soundings
and the number of point sites. The financial proposal should reflect the detailed costs of all components
of the study as well as the possible extra costs which can be encountered during the study (example:
partial casing of the boreholes for non-consolidated zones, isolation of different aquifer zones for testing
purposes, etc.).
Component C: Satellite Image Study
16.    Based on the analysis of recent and sub-recent satellite, the contractor is required to prepare a
set of maps showing the characteristics mentioned below in the fields of land use, soil associations,
natural vegetation, hydrology and physiography. The analysis and conclusions should be verified through
extensive field controls of specified locations. For the dynamic elements, required information should
not only consist of a detailed picture of the current situation, but should also integrate the seasonal
variation as well as the trend in the changes that have taken place during the past ten years. The base-
maps on which different characteristics are to be projected are the topographic maps on the 1:50, 000
scale available for the area. Joint to the maps, the contractor should also produce a detailed explanatory
document to support of the maps with necessary definitions and explanations.
Dynamic elements:
Urban, agricultural and natural areas;
Spatial distribution of cropping patterns; and
Irrigated zones and types of irrigation (rain-fed, spate-irrigated, base flow/spring
irrigated, lake irrigated, groundwater irrigated).
Static elements:
Type of land (mountain slope, terraces, innondatable wadi bottom, highland plain, etc.);
Types of soil;
Suitability of soils for irrigation and crop productivity;
Natural vegetation;



Annex 7
Page 6 of 8
Hydrological network with characteristics of wadi segments (perennial, seasonal,
ephermal) and estimations of flow volumes;
Zones prone to inundation; and
*     Altitude.
Current status of human interference on the hydrological system:
Current and potential polluters of surface water; and
*     Existing and planned dams and flood controlling systems.
Timetable
17.   The total duration of the study is 4 months starting from May 1, 1996. The first draft of the
required outputs should be ready and discussed with the project management by end August 1996. In
view of the urgency of the study, these deadlines will be strictly adhered to, and there will be no
extension in the duration of the contract.
Payment Conditions
18.   The contractor will be paid in three installments as per the following schedule:
First installment:   30% of the total fees at the end of the first month when the resources
have been mobilized and field work has been started.
Second installment:   30% of the total fees at the time when field work needed to produce the
required outputs has been completed.
Third installment:    40% of the total fees at the end of the contract period based on the
acceptance of draft reports/outputs, and that all outputs have been handed
over to the project management, including transfer of raw/processed data
collected during the course of the study.
All payments will be made upon the certification of the project CTA and subsequent approval of the
UN/UNDDSMS that work has been satisfactorily performed in accordance with the terms of reference
of the contract.
Special Requirements
19.   One of the main objectives of the Project YEM/93/010 is to strengthen the technical and
institutional capacities of NWRA in performing its functions and mandates. Therefore, it is important
that the selected contractor should include those national professionals/institutions in the study team who
are expected to be part of the future NWRA staff. The contractors should specifically explain in their
proposals that how the technical capabilities of these institutions/professionals will be strengthened. For
each component of the study, the contractor should review all the relevant work that has been carried out
in the past, and make best use of the previous work.



Annex 7
Page 7 of 8
20.   The financial proposal should reflect separate cost estimates for each component of the study, if
contractors are submitting proposals for more than one component.
21.   All raw/processed data collected/compiled during the course of the study will be the property of
NWRA. The contractor should provide this data to the project together with the final report since it will
have to be utilized for groundwater modelling exercise at a later stage.
22.   The project management reserves the right to reject any or all proposals without assigning any
reason.
23.   Other special requirements in terms of fulfilling contract obligations will be reflected in the
contract agreement between UNDDSMS/UNDP and the contractor.
E.   WATER RESOURCES EXPLORATION STUDIES FOR THE CITY OF TAIZ BY NWRA
Objectives
24.   The objectives of these studies are to identify, explore and test new groundwater sources to supply
the city of Taiz with potable water to meet at least projected water demands through the year 2000.
Approach
25.   The study will be carried out by the staff of NWRA with technical assistance provided by
expatriate experts on hydrogeology. The study will be done in the following three phases:
(i)    Phase 1, identification of prospective areas with potential for groundwater development
within the Taiz region;
(ii)   Phase 2, geophysical exploration of areas with optimistic potential for development, in
order to identify areas suitable for exploratory drilling and pump testing of aquifers; and
(iii)   Phase 3, exploratory drilling and pump testing of aquifers to determine water sources
yields and well field development parameters.
Phase 1
26.   Phase 1 will include a detailed study of existing geological maps and hydrological data for the
study area. NWRA's experts will study and analyze geology, structures, relief, wadi catchments, and
other natural physical characteristics, in order to identify prospective areas. The following seven areas
have been identified in earlier preliminary studies: (i) Wadi Al Asabah-Wadi Al Haima; (ii) Wadi As
Sawami; (iii) Wadi Bahsus-Wadi Rahabar (Hadjah westward); (iv) Wadi Bani Khawlan; (v) At Turbah;
(vi) Wadi Warazan (Ar Rahidah); and (vii) Wadi Sawdan. Phase 1 will be carried out over a period of
about one to two months.
27.   The study will comprise the following activities: (i) collection, analysis and generalization of all
geological, hydrological and geophysical data available for about 1,600 square km, that is, areas located
within a radius of about 40 km from the city of Taiz; (ii) analysis of surface water, rainfall and climatic
data; and (iii) interpretation of remote sensing data.



Annex 7
Page 8 of 8
Phase 2
28.    Phase 2 will consist of geophysical studies of selected areas of about 300 sq. km.  The main
activities are: (i) geophysical logging, electric profiling, vertical and circular sounding and nuclear
magnetic resonance; (ii) geological and groundwater field observations; (iii) reconnaissance routes; and
(iv) inventory of selective existing wells in the area. This phase will be carried out over a period of
about two to three months.   The output of this phase will be: (i) maps (1:100,000 scale) of
geomorphology, geology and hydrogeology; (ii) explanatory notes to maps; and (iii) identification of sites
for exploratory drilling and testing including preparation of relevant specifications and tender documents.
Phase 3
29.    Phase 3 will consist of exploratory drilling and pump testing.  Based on tender documents
prepared in phase 2, NWRA will tender the exploratory drilling studies in accordance with National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. NWRA will supervise the exploratory drilling and based on the
findings of the study, it will give specific recommendations for well field development. It is estimated
that Phase 3 will extend over a period of about nine to ten months, including the period of time for
tendering (about three months).



Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
ECONOMIC AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Introduction
1.    The economic analysis models a series of cost and benefit streams under the Project to provide
urban and rural potable water and rural irrigation water. Technical Assistance and Studies, as well as
the Women in Development components, are also included as part of the overall analysis. The Project's
Base Case economic rate of return is approximately 55 percent (see Table 1).
2.    The economic and sensitivity analysis adopts a conservative view, with risks estimated at a level
considered only remotely possible and benefits modestly stated. For example, in the unlikely event that
the amount of water from the well field was reduced by 30 percent, plus farmers wanted to increase the
amount of water retained in the rural areas for irrigation by 15 percent (thereby reducing water available
to Taiz), and the investment for irrigation infrastructure was doubled, the Project's ERR would still be
over 26 percent (see sensitivity analysis Scenario A). In all the analyses, unaccounted for water (UFW)
percentages in Taiz are realistically portrayed (currently at about 50 percent and are only reduced to 25
percent over the coming seven years-even after completion of the proposed Phase II project that will
specifically address this problem). Additional water provided to Taiz under the Project is valued in the
Base Case at its economic value determined from the city's estimated demand curve based on the
observed cost of vendor water and current NWSA tariffs. This estimate is, however, considered well
below its true economic value if the additional externalities of a reliable and potable water supply could
be determined. Similarly, modest benefit assumptions are made for the rural potable water supply and
irrigated agriculture components. A full description of the model, assumptions and scenarios follows and
detailed tables are available in the Project File.
Economic Analysis
3.    Costs. Cost streams are divided into rural and conveyance (Taiz potable water supply) portions
to represent the Project's investment, operation and maintenance costs over a 20-year period. Major
investment items are for civil works, pumping equipment, generators, piping and related equipment, well
housing structures, vehicles and a small amount of office and surveying equipment. Using manufacturers'
specifications, the conveyance portion of the Project is estimated to use 5,700 kWh/day, while the rural
part of the Project is estimated to consume 600 kWh/day. Energy costs are estimated at world prices for
electricity supplied by diesel units at the well field, or YR 13.5/kWh (US$0. 10/kWh). The analysis also
includes a major rehabilitation of the Project's pumping and drive equipment at year 10; assumed to be
50 percent of the original cost.
4.    Operations and maintenance costs (O&M) are estimated at a percentage of initial investment
(including the pro rata share of civil works for installation and project management), except for vehicles



Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
that are assumed to have operating costs of $4,000 per year for the first five years, and then retired at
a salvage cost of zero. The percentages used for O&M are as follows:
Item                                    O&M Percentage
Equipment                                                        2.00%
Major Structures                                                 2.00%
Piping, Fittings, Valves, Well Head                              1.00%
5.     Benefits. By the time of full development, water from eight of the nine proposed wells are
expected to yield about 173 liters per second (Ips) or 5,456 million cubic meters (MCM) per year under
the Base Case. Well No. 2 is yet to be completed and, therefore, it is not included in the analysis.
Projected annual distribution of the water is: Taiz 140 lps (4,415 MCM); potable water for rural areas
at just over 10 lps (394 MCM); and about 21 lps (647 MCM) for irrigation uses. As some wells are
more developed than others, water availability is assumed to be 40 percent in year zero of the analysis,
80 percent in year one and 100 percent by year two.
6.    Irrigation benefits are based on a Farm model constructed for the economic analysis (included
in the Project File). Input costs include seeds, livestock use, tractor hire, labor, fertilizers, pesticides and
irrigation water. Imported inputs are valued at international import parity prices. Yields are based on
observed farm gate prices in the project area. Current summer crops in the project area consist of qat
(30 percent), sorghum (20 percent), maize (45 percent), tomatoes (5 percent). In winter, sorghum and
maize decrease while potatoes are added. In addition, approximately 25 percent of the land lies fallow
during the winter months. With and without Project scenarios were analyzed in the Farm model, based
on the amount of water available from the Project and extensive interviews with farmers in the Habir
area. After taking into account the amount of water conveyed to Taiz and the potable water needs of the
rural population, the project is expected to yield about 647,00 m3 per year for irrigation purposes. Based
on farmer responses and a review of several IDA's Project Completion Reports (Yemen: Southern
Regional Agricultural Development Project Implementation Completion Report No. 15561 and Fifth
Tihama Regional Agricultural Development Project Implementation Completion Report No. 15620), about
13,000 m3 is required per hectare for a typical cropping mix in the area. For this analysis, and based
on farmer interviews, growers are expected to increase their yield of all existing crops (except qat) as a
result of the increased availability of irrigation water, with the largest incremental benefits coming from
winter tomatoes, potatoes and straw. In addition, the Project will permit all land to be cultivated year
round. If a typical winter and summer cropping mix is assumed for the additional area to be provided
with irrigation, about 50 additional hectares could be irrigated as a result of the Project. With these
assumptions, the Project is expected to yield about $53,000 in annual incremental benefits by the year
2000.
7.     The Project will also produce potable water in the rural areas. The amount available per annum
is determined by estimating the population to be served (3000 families, with 6 people per family, equals
a total population served of about 18,000), and the liters per capita per day of consumption (60). This
means that about 394,000 m3 per year will be used for rural potable water supply. The benefits from
potable water supply modeled in the analysis are based on the time saved by women and girls performing
water-related chores and an estimated shadow wage rate for their time. Local interviews found that the
family wage rate for farm work was about YR 150 (US$1.11) per day and, in the economic analysis, a
wage rate of YR 5.00 (US$0.04) per hour was assumed for those family members spent in water-related



Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
activities. This estimated wage takes into account the wide age dispersion of the female population
occupied with fetching potable water, washing clothes and watering animals. Field observations show
that women and girls spend up to eight hours per day in providing water for the household and livestock,
mostly as a result of the long distances to water sources and the modest amounts available from depleted
wells and seasonably variable springs. The Project will provide reliable and plentiful water at points
close to existing settlements, therefore the economic analysis assumes that about 2 hours per day per
person will be saved by its rural potable water component. Under these assumptions and by the third
year of the Project when water from all wells will be available, annual benefits are estimated at about
US$49,000. There will also be substantial externalities for the provision of potable water to the rural
population (e.g., improved health or as an input to employment generating activities) but, because of the
difficulty in quantifying them, these have not been included in the analysis.
8.     Urban potable water benefits are quantified for the expected 140 liters per second flow (4,415
MCM) that will be annually available in Taiz as a result of the Project. The economic value of this water
was estimated by calculating consumer and NWSA benefits under the Project (using vendor prices and
NWSA's marginal tariff). Based on current studies in Taiz, vendor prices for potable water average
about YR 550 (US$4.07) per m3, but are seasonally higher in some summer months (see C. Handley,
"Taiz Household Water Study", January 1996, in the Project File). For purposes of the economic
analysis, a demand curve for the city is estimated using the observed vendor price of YR 550 with a
quantity supplied of 120,000 m3 per month, and the existing marginal block NWSA of YR 40 with a total
demand of 1,200 million m' per month. If the demand function is assumed to be linear, then a price for
water supplied with the Project can be estimated (see Figure 1). The resulting estimated price (YR
375/m3) is then used to calculate NWSA and consumer benefits as a result of the Project. (Given the
analysis' long time horizon, water sold by vendors is assumed to be priced at their long-run marginal
cost, so there is no economic benefit from their supply.) The total benefit to both consumers and NWSA
is then divided by the amount of water provided to Taiz after the Project is implemented (482 million
m3/month), yielding an economic price of YR 339/in3, which is the Base Case amount.
9.     The economic model assumes that UFW is 50 percent in Taiz for years zero through two of the
Project, reduces to 30 percent for the next five years, and then to 25 percent for the remainder of the
analysis.
10.    Depletion costs (from well exploitation) and recharge benefits (from irrigation) are not included
in the analysis because it is envisaged that the Project will not result in mining of the aquifer. The
Project seeks to ensure sustainable water extraction through: (i) the importance it places on educating the
population about the dangers of water mining; (ii) relating the already well-known experience that
neighboring Al Haima had with wells running dry; and (iii) the provision of monitoring equipment and
procedures to be put in place to prevent over-exploitation. Despite these precautions, sensitivity Scenario
A below includes the effect of a 30 percent decrease in water availability. (Scenario A should also
include a cost for depletion but the size of existing aquifers are not yet known and therefore, no "mining
costs" are included.)
11.    Economic Return. The Base Case analysis, using the assumptions described above, shows an
economic rate of return for the Project of about 55 percent. At 10 percent discount rate, the net present
value equals just over US$37.3 million (see Table 1).



Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
Sensitivity Analysis
12.   Three sensitivity scenarios are modeled to test possible outcomes in project risk. In Scenario A,
the three risks outlined in the SAR are analyzed. In this context; (i) the rural population may change its
agreement with NWSA by reducing the amount of water allowed to go to Taiz; (ii) it could demand more
compensation for the transfer of the water; and (iii) the wells could be exploited beyond their sustainable
yield leading to a decrease in the overall water available. Thus, for Scenario A the amount of water
extracted is reduced by 30 percent from the Base Case assumption, and the water allowed to flow to Taiz
is also decreased by 15 percent. The latter adjustment would increase the amount of water available for
irrigation, increasing the potential irrigated area by about 140 hectares. This, in turn, would prompt an
increase in irrigation investment, thus Scenario A increases the capital cost for this item by $375,000,
or about 50 percent over the Base Case. For the reasons outlined in para. II above, depletion costs are
not included.
13.    Under Scenario B, Base Case project costs (including technical assistance, studies and energy)
are increased by 15 percent and project benefits are delayed by 3 years.
14.   Scenario C takes into account that the economic value of water from Habir could be over
estimated. Therefore, the vendor price used in Base Case is decreased so that it equals the highest
current NWSA residential block tariff for water (YR 40/m3) in years zero and two, and then only
increases by 15 percent over the remainder of the analysis (to reflect the potential problem NWSA, or
a private management contractor, could have in raising tariffs). With this assumption, the highest water
block tariff would reach only YR 80/m3 (US$0.59) by year six and remain at this level for the rest of the
Project.
15.    Economic rates of return for the Base Case and three scenarios are sunmmarized in the following
table:
Scenario                           ERR (%)
Base                                55
A                                 27
B                                 23
C                                  5
16.   The Project is most sensitive to the assumed price level of water sold to Taiz. For example,
lowering the Base Case price by 50 percent to YR 170/rn3, then the Project's ERR falls to about 23
percent. To lower the Base Case ERR to zero, then a starting price of YR 64/m3 would be necessary--or
about 19 percent of the Base Case price. Similarly, the analysis is sensitive to the amount of water
available to Taiz. For example, if the amount of water was decreased by 30 percent to 98 Ips, then the
ERR reduces to about 36 percent.
17.    In contrast, an increase in costs by 15 percent only reduces the ERR by about 5 percent,
demonstrating that the Project should be less sensitive to cost overruns or modest construction delays.



Republic of Yemen
Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project
Table 1. Economic Analysis Summary
-Base Case-
_____________    ______________           ~~~~   ~~~CosT     ($000)                                                          BENEFITS  ($000)
-~Rural Water Suppt~y   Rural Irrigation  Other   -       Tota     ____ Conveyance____    Ttl Dstrib.   TA &               Total   lirriatio~n  Rrl     Urban j Total       Ne
YEAR  Capital   O&M   Capital  O&M         Capital  Energy    Rufal     Capital   O&M    Energy  Convey.  costs   Studies   Costs    ___   Pot.Water  Water  Benefits-  Benefits
0    858.      12.6    771 0     1 1.8    85.0      3.8  1,722      3,931 0     42.5     30 4085          120      ,9.    ,812.0                 19.5  2,217.3  2.238.8    -,4.
1    425 1     16      1 29.8 -   130-   4i7.0 _ 22.0    653 8        172.9     44.3   2-080   4_2_5.2    304.0    602.8 -1-985.8   -   28.1     38.9  4,C4347  4  -501.7  -2,515 9
2 -    3 4     1-i6.9    3.4  -  13.1    T776 -  2206  -1-363                   44.3    208.0 _ M2523   3-80.0              768.6      3i7.8     48.7 _5,543.3  5.629.8    48a61.
3~~~~~~~~~~~-                -              _2O-       - _____ 19___i 3  2  2044.3  2-08.0    252.3  _380.          -6843        47.      48.7  5433 5_63_95    4,955.2
4      16.9 ______       131 ______~TI   --22.0     -52.   -443    20ZO8_.0 _252.                 380.0  _           8.         528      48-7  5,.543.3  -5,644.8    4,960.5
5 ______  14.9  ____    ~~~~11.1 ___       22.0    48.01                44.3    208.0    252.3    380-0 ____    680.3           52.8    48.7  5,543.3  5,644.8    4,964.5
6 _____   ~~14 9             I1.11             22.0     48.0  ____          44.3    208 0    252.3    380.0 ____        680.3       52.8    48.7  5,543.3  5,644.8    4,964 5
7         ~~~~~14.9 __       1.1       __      22.0     4044.3    200                        223      300680.3                      52.8    48.7  5,543.3  56,644 8  -4,964.5
__  8      14.9  ____        ~~~~      ~      ~~11.1  22.0  48.0  __ _      44 3    208.0   252.3    380.0              680.3       52 8     48.7  7,760.7  7,862.1    7,181.8
9              14_9_____   111                 __22_0  _480                    -44.3    2080 _252.3      380.0              680.3       52-.8 __48.7  7,760.7  7,6.1    7,181.8
10  75.6  149          11.1 ___ ~~~~    ~~~756  22.0 _1 992  199      4.       00      441      300___ 1,023 4                52.8    48.7  7,760.7  7,862.1    6,838 8
11    __        14.9 '___         11.1 _____. -___ 2.0_    8  -                  44.3    280 __252.3       38.               680.3       52.      48.7  -7,760.7  7,86-2.1   -7,181.8
12  -      ~~~~14.9 ____       11                20      4.   _               43     20-8.0  _ 252.3  _38_0.0 _ ____   680._3        52.8    48.7  7,760.   7,862.1    7,181.8
1  ___     4.9              111___            20       48.0   ___         44.       0.       5.       8.   _   _       603         52.8    48.7  7,760.7  7,862.       7,181.8
13                                                                                               __19L__ 11  2  8  43_   0.  52.3    380.0  680.3  52.8 48. 8,15.    8,416   732
_16 ___           191.                                 2.0  -480   _          ___44._3   208_0   252.3    3800-             _680.3        -528  _48.7  8,315.0  8.416.5   7,736.2
17 -  14.9           11.1              22.0~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ 48.   ____ _    4.  0.       5.       8. _ _           603         5.        87 8,31.   8.4165        7,736.2
18 ____           14.9 ____         1.  _ _           22.0     48.0  ____         44.3   208.0 _ 252.3   _3_80.0             6-80.3    -52.8        487 8315.0  -8,416.5    7,3. 2
19  14.9              11.1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  22.0   48.0  __            44.3    208.0  _252.3   3-80.0 _____        603         52.8    48.7  8350 8465             776
20____          1.                11.1 ____         22.0    48.0         _       44.3   208.0 _252.3   360.0 ___             680.3       52.8    48.7  8,315.0  8,416.5    7,736.2
Variables  I. Economic Return____              ___   _________                                                                                        ____
___Exch. Rate (YR/$)      135          Energy Cost Increase    -___                     ___      ___      ___      ___                 ___      ___      ___                 ___
_____                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~(5   year  increm ents)  0.00 -%   _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _    _   _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _   _ _ _
- ~Value of Water to TaizL___-__                                           ...____
____   Yeaq~ F   Y m3   m3Economic  Return                __  ___                 __              _  _   _  _ __               __      _  __               _ __                _  _
__ __ _  339     2.51           Net Present Value __ _ _     __ _ ___ _ ___ _ _                                    __  _ __   _ _ _ _     _ ___ _                   _ _ _ _
_____    ________   ~~~~Discount Rate  10.00%     _        __
______ -                  NPIS~~~~~~~~~~~$ 0)- 37.302    __
___                        ERR                54.64%   __~~



Republic of Yemen
Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project
Figure 1. Derivation of Economic Value of Habir Water Supply
===.__ __                                    IZ  I _I_L1. ~LL  =_ =_ ==                                   ===
YRFm3         Estimated Current Vendor Supply at YR500/m3Vo 
=    = = ___     600  =-_ (120,000 m3/month: 46 ps)    =               =    =    =    =      =    =_=              =
____ ____ ___ 550  _         _ _
Estimated Economic    500
Price for Habir  4____   50
Water      _      _ 4-0-0            A              -
YR 375/m3     -       350  _        _ _   .  _     -                                    pi
300                                       Vendor Supply + Habir Supply
=____250  __   _  _             .           '       .  -<(482,000 m3/month: 186 Ips)
200      -    B    .  _                                                   Estimated Total Taiz Demand  =
150                       ____            __atYR 40/m3    J__L___
100 ___ _ =__              _(1,200000 m3/month: 460 1ps)
__    _             t      - =-C             <                   l    l    |    1-0          m3/month (000)
___  ___ ___   =   __   100  200  300  400  500  600  700  800  900 1000 1100 1200 1300 
Consumer
__|__ |_ __ CoSurplus    ___=    = A + B   =    = -_          |-|
----_-----r---    --r= (125x362)/2 +(335 x362)  _     _             __                        __
___= _ _     _= -143,895 (YR 000/ month) | 
___  =__          =___ NWSA Surplus    - C                 1            _    _           _                    _    ____
____  ___            __ ~~~~~~=40 x482          __
|    |       X   0 1         -~~~~~~ 19,280 (YR 000/ rnonth)                L_             l _IL
Total Benefit    = 143,395 + 19,280   |     _       - _           _              |
= 163,175 (YR 000/month)
Per cubic meter   = YR 163,175,000/482,000 M3    _          _    _          _I_               _
= =   benefit          = YR 339/m3   |    j                                                   ____________t 



Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.     Notes on Project Appraisal and Negotiations by Mario A. Zelaya, Mission Leader, April/May 1996.
2.     Summary of Socio Economic Analysis by Shahena Khan, Consultant, April/May 1996.
3.     Economic Analysis and Supporting Data by Alexander McPhail, Senior Water Resources Economist,
April/May 1996.
4.     Taiz Water Supply, Assessment of the Present Situation Achieved in New Source Development, by Dr.
Ladislao Dubay, Hydrogeologist Consultant, May 1996.
5.     Republic of Yemen, Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources, Southern Region Agricultural
Development Project, Feasibility Report: Wadi Warazan, by Water and Power Consultancy Services (India)
Limited (WAPCOS), 1995
6.     Scope of Works for Feasibility Study of One Recharge Dyke and One Recharge Cum Irrigation Dyke
across Wadi Al Minqa'ah by WAPCOS for SURDU, March 1996.
7.     Scope of Works and Terms of Reference for Phase 11 Warazan Dam by WAPCOS for SURDU, March
1996.
8.     Southern Region Agricultural Development Project, Taiz, Republic of Yemen, Feasibility Study, Designs
and Tender Documents for Two Dykes across Wadi Al Minqa'ah, Technical and Financial Proposal, by
WAPCOS, March 1996.
9.     Proposal for the Emergency Hydrogeological Activity to Provide Potable Water Supply in Taiz, GEOCON,
Sana'a, August 1995.
10.    Republic of Yemen, Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project, Summary of Technical Discussions, Sana'a, May
6-8, 1996. by Mario A. Zelaya, Mission Leader.
11.    Yemen Water Strategy: Decentralized Management Study, Preparation Mission-Dhi Soufal Component,
BTOR, by Marcus Moench, Team Leader, Mission March 20-April 7, 1996.
12.    Taiz Water Supply Project, Taiz Decentralized Management Pilot Project, Draft Preparation Mission
Report, April 1996, prepared by Marcus Moench.






IBRD 27973
--41                4?                 43                44                 45                 46                 47'?49 48                            19                  5                 51                 57 .1              53-                 54                 55
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                                                           -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                          s~~~~~~~~~~~~ A U D I  A R A B I A                   _- 
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT    SAUDI  iABI
_ ACN EDADS                        DISTRICT CENTERS                                                  _                                / S                                                                       18ol
SECO'DAPF ROADS                   PROVINCE CENTERS                                                                                      /                                             M    A    N
4. INTlNPITIONAL AIRPORTS                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                *./
+    SEA PO;'S                  -   -  GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                            /                                             j     ,,,'
.WADC                             INTERNATIONAI BOUNDARIES                       /
ALl Shoq                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17,
Un,noI.1                  t.                                                                                   lr/0         \                                                   AL MANAA
Umm~~~~~~~~~ ol Kho  !                                                                                  ' .eS    RO   huu -_-                                                                                         A\~          -
SAADAH                     -,                                          / M               )                                    ( N          A
*Hjiooh  |          Soadoh         .-'rf i m              o p hyn ,/                                  78                                             'lh                                             \I Doqot1
4 ~~ ~    ~ ~~~ ~~~~~ *,                                                                       f                           C, -__ |_   A|A                                            JGB ,   ?AlGhyoc Hhoro
Al M-dIdo.     H-d   -        -.   A H.       _                            I              /           I          \
EJ'                     Moyd Z.               Hod,I JA     Nc   <@(    AL-BEiDA             !N     AsSo'd,   f/A A L-JA W F                                                                                 U  Lon  F     O    F nD           E
H      sA     A'   rT...                                                                                 HI G_l O      O8
/~ ~ ~~~d  AU                    ,_4o  s AlMS&O N                      Moo* i b   .'Lrbwd*                          (     I A  Hw
HQDEIDAH                      '      Nor,b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 'b
Al Hodeid, -4~        '        " -       1   Adl G5Ai C N * .,                                         h
, ~   ~~~~~               ~      ~     ~    ~~~~~~~                                 ALoq _'                 ', A K h o d o
-7                    HAJJA AH,.opd                                                                                                   jo.~A    "forh * k  ooo   
E T~                                                               A IBOEP I A   -.   -  DL 4Hlkl- A 'd.  MW.25
4l'   42   /  DJIBOUTI   44   5                       A0.       m.      A5052k
AI  I k " , k   . -               I                   I \  . -                                 I A                                      I                   I A                                                                                  J7U N  13
TA ~    ~    J-
HO EIA                                               H.db- DEN                   SHABWA-                                                                                                                     amh-           Dr,'
Al          42   /~~~~l  dJIBOUT                 m 4                                         46                    7                   8'4'5*515'                                                                                                                4
JUEIAT






IBRD 28055
The boundaries, colors,
denominotions and any
other information shown
on this map do not
imply, on the part of
The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legal                                                                                              8
status of any territory,                                               '                                             A         A
or any endorsement                                                     .
or acceptance of such
boundaries.                                                                                                                6 6
0.~~~~~~~~~
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                      3  -Z
TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
PROJECT SITE MAP                                                              \
A     New Habir Wells
A      Proposed Habir Wells                                                             /
Proposed Rural Water Supply Pipelines
Proposed Water Transmission Pipelines
Villages Served by Proposed Water Supply
Project Boundary
*     Existing Wells
O      Water Hydraulics Control Tower
-Existing Water Transmission Pipelines a
Governerate Boundaries
AL.
S A U D I ARAB A                          O M A N
.;   o'-,              1/            
; ~. ..             VR E P U B L I C
O F
Y E M E N                 GULF OF A DEN             o                      I     2      3
KILOMETERS
E I OP IA>                                            K  "V -z F
JUNE 1996









IMAGING
Report No:       15599 YEM
Type: SAR



