Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24441
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29 130)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF
SDR 7.1 MILLION
(US$ 10.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
RY-TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT
06/28/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 26, 2002)
Currency Unit =  Yemeni Rial (YR)
1000 YR =   US$ 5.74
US$ 1 =   YR 174
Official Rate        Market Rate
May 1992      US$ 1 =YR    12       US$ 1= YR   29
October 1994  US$ 1 =YR    50      US$ 1 = YR 103
October 1995  US$ 1 = YR   90      US$ 1 =YR 112
December 1996 US$ 1 = YR 100       US$ 1 = YR 126
December 1997 US$ I = YR 131        US$ 1 = YR 131
June 1998   . US$ 1 =YR 135         US$ 1 =YR 135
December 1999 US$1 = YR 155         US$ 1 = YR 155
December 2000 US$ 1 = YR 160        US$ 1 = YR 160
April 2002     US$ 1 = YR 174       US$ 1 = YR 174
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOY           -      Government of Yemen
MAI           -      Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MEW           -      Ministiy of Electricity and Water
NWRA          -      National Water Resources Authority
NWSA          -      National Water Supply and Sanitation Authority
PMU           -      Project Management Unit
PPF           -      Project Preparation Facility
RWS           -      Rural Water Supply
SAR           -      Staff Appraisal Report
SURDU         -      Southern Uplands Regional Development Unit
TWSLC         -      Taiz Water Supply and Sanitation Local Corporation
WID           -      Women in Development
YR            -      Yemeni Rial
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:   Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager:    Francoise Clottes
Task Team Leader:    Somin Mukherji (Supervision)
Manuel Schiffler. (ICR)



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
RY-TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                7
6. Sustainability                                                                    8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  13
9. Partner Comments                                                                 14
10. Additional Infornation                                                          18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               29
Annex 8. Detailed Assessment of Outputs by Components and Sub-Components            30
Annex 9. Assessment of the Rural Water Supply Schemes                               35
Map: IBRD 31917



Project ID: P043367                                      Project Name: RY-TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT
Team Leader: Somin Mukherji                              TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: RY-TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT                    LIC/TFNumber: IDA-29130
Country/Departnent: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                   Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation; WU - Urban
Water Supply
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/04/1996                             Effective:                   02/24/1997
Appraisal:  04/12/1996                               MTR:                      07/10/1998
Approval:  09/03/1996                             Closing: 06/30/2000          12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/NWSA/TWSLC/NWRA/SURDU
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                        Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:     Mahmood Ayub                              Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:      Emmanuel Forestier
Team Leader at ICR:  Manuel Schiffler                         Mario Zelaya
ICR Primary Author:  Manuel Schiffler
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Project's main objectives were to mitigate the immediate water shortage in the city of Taiz (by
increasing supply by about 100%) and to identify new water sources to avert a sustained water shortage (to
meet the needs of at least the year 2000 or about 550 liters per second). The project also aims at
developing and testing an institutional framework for decentralized water resources management through
participation of local communities (through establishment of community associations), and to promote
private sector participation in the management of water and wastewater utility services (by entering into a
management contract in the second phase of the Taiz Water Supply Project).
The project was in line with the Country Assistance Strategy and with the client needs. Indeed the project
was specifically requested on an urgent basis by the Government of Yemen to deal with an emergency
water shortage in Taiz. The project development objective is clear, except for the definition of the quantity
of water to be supplied through the project to Taiz, which was not entirely clear (the base line for the 100%
increase was not mentioned in the SAR). The objective was not realistic because: (i) water availability in
the project area was much lower than anticipated; (ii) no component or sub-component to test an
institutional framework for decentralized water resources management was included in the project; and (iii)
the conditions for entering into a managing contract in Taiz (water availability, insufficient size of the city)
were not fulfilled. In more general terms, the project underesimated the incredible difficulty of
implementing complex projects in an extremely difficult environment in Yemen characterized by weak
institutional capacity in the public sector as well as social tensions in the project area.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not formally revised, although numerous pragmatic changes were introduced in
sub-components by supervision missions and the mid-term review, in response to changing circumstances.
As a result, the project ceased to pursue several of its original objectives, but rather worked to achieve
other sensible objectives that were achieved in a cost-effective manner.
3.3 Original Components:
1.   Habir Well Field Development by NWSA (US$ 6.Om incl. contingencies and repayment of $
0.65m from the project preparation fund)
1.1 Construction of eight deep wells for Taiz (and one well for Al Qaidah town) and provision of
pumping equipment, water meter, piping and accessories, well head and accessories, standby power
generation, electricity transformers and switch gear, and well structure and housing (US$ 1.15m,
incl. project management);
1.2  Provision of three aquifer monitoring wells, and installations for measuring groundwater levels (cost
included in 1.1);
1.3  Provision of about 17.5 km of transmission piping ranging in size from 150mm to 300mm diameter
steel pipe (US$ 1.6m);
1.4 Replacement of three electric generators at NWSA power generation station and construction of
about 10 kmn of electric power distribution overhead (US$ 0.7m);
1.5  Provision of potable water supply schemes to service about ten villages in East Habir and West
Habir, including technical assistance to local cooperatives on O&M and management (cost included
in 2.1 below);
1.6  Preparation of tender documents for a private management contract for NWSA Taiz branch, and of
design and tender documents for the rehabilitation and upgrading of Taiz and Al Qaidah water and
wastewater systems, for possible IDA financing under a second phase project (US$ 1.9m).
2.   Rural Infrastructure by SURDU (US$ 2.7 m incl. contingencies)
- 2 -



2.1  Provision of rural water supply schemes for about twenty villages in the Al Haima area, including
technical assistance to local cooperatives on O&M and management (US$ 1.9m, incl. project
management and 1.5 above)
2.2  Provision of two demonstration irrigation schemes, technical assistance and extension services, one
for East Habir cooperative and the other for West Habir cooperative, consisting each of a well,
pumping equipment and a diesel power engine, well monitoring equipment, and about 5 km irrigation
piping per scheme (US$ 0.4m)
2.3  Development of a pilot program of women activities, to be implemented in two poor villages in
Lower Al Haima area (US$ 0. Im)
2.4  Undertaking feasibility studies for a possible recharge dike in Wadi Al Jaashin in Habir area and for
a dam in Wadi Warazan as a potential water source for urban and rural development (US$ 0.3m)
2.5  Construction of three school rooms in Hajr Bin school(US$ 0.03m)
3.   Water Source Studies by NWRA (2.4m incl. contingencies)
3.1  Undertaking groundwater exploration studies in the Taiz region for the water supply of the city of
Taiz (US$ 2. 1m, including 3.2)
3.2  Undertaking groundwater exploration in Wadi Rasyan to complement water management plans for
the Taiz region and the city of Taiz; and
3.3  Undertaking a study in Wadi Masila in Hadramaut area to complement water management plans for
the rational development of Hadramaut area (US$ 0.3m).
Note: Costs for the various sub-components were not included in the SAR and had to be compiled from
data in the SAR Annex 2 based on certain assumptions for the purpose of this ICR.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components of the project were not changed. However, there were substantial changes at the level of
the sub-components and activities (for details see Annex 8). The credit agreement was amended in early
2001 to formalize these changes long after they had been agreed and implemented. The project development
objectives, although long overtaken by the events, were left unchanged.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was unsatisfactory. The combination of a pilot approach with an emergency approach
proved to be unfortunate. In a pilot project, new approaches are tested, the risk of failure is deliberately
taken, and time is allowed for careful monitoring and evaluation in view of drawing lessons for the future.
In an emergency project, time is scarce. Established, low-risk approaches should be used to deliver results
quickly and in a reliable manner. The Taiz Pilot Project attempted both approaches simultaneously.
At the time of appraisal in 1996, the project was perceived by the government and the Bank as an
emergency project in response to the difficult water supply situation in Taiz. Piped water was available
only once every 40 days and there were rumors of a cholera outbreak. This created pressure from the
government and from Bank management to complete project preparation rapidly, affecting quality at entry.
For example, the SAR used substantial groundwater resources in the Habir area (140 Vs) as a basis for
planning. The hydro-geological study from which the figure was taken noted that its results were based on
assumptions that remained to be verified and that the complex geology of the area made it difficult to assess
resources in a reliable manner. The resource assumptions drawn from the study proved to be faulty even
before the project became effective. Actual availability in Habir (West and East) was only in the range of
40 Vs. Furthermore, important lessons from earlier stages of project preparation were not taken into
account during appraisal. For example, no participatory water resources management component was
included in the project, although studies undertaken during project preparation showed that the
implementation of the 'compensation' package in exchange for transferring water to Taiz would be
controversial, making a participatory water resources management component desirable.
.3.-



The project did not succeed to bring additional water to Taiz for the next five years. Ironically, while the
project did not make much progress, the govermment quietly and rapidly implemented its own "emergency
project" drilling 6 wells in east and west Habir (supplying about 20 I/s) with production beginning in May
1996 and 12 wells in Taiz city supplying about 40 I/s in summer 1997. While these wells exacerbated the
over-pumping of local aquifers and partly drew on low-quality water with an elevated nitrate content, thus
posing a potential health risk to the population, they succeeded in alleviating the acute water shortage
before the Bank project that tried to achieve the same objective even became effective.
The appraisal report does not discuss compensation for land used to build infrastructure. One of the
reasons for the delay in completing the East Habir pipeline and in making water flow in the pipeline once it
was completed were claims by local landowners for compensation for land used to drill two wells in East
Habir. Although the amount of land involved was very limited, it seems that several families claimed
ownership to the land and compensation. The government has made a financial allocation for
compensation, but since the ownership claims of the families are competing with each other and are
difficult to verify in the absence of registered land titles, the compensation was apparently not paid for
several years after the works took place.
The project attempted at testing - for the first time in Yemen - an institutional framework for decentralized
water resource management through participation of local communities. The Al Haima and Habir areas
were ill-suited for this purpose. Trust between the communities and the government was low due to earlier
broken promises, and there was a need to transfer water from one govemorate to another, a politically risky
undertaking. The principle of "picking the lowest hanging fruit first" was clearly not applied. In a different
area of Yemen chances of success would probably have been higher.
Even if the choice of the project area is taken as a given, the project should have been prepared differently.
The appraisal report continues to say that this risk is mitigated by the establishment of a steering committee
that would include "representatives of concemed rural conmnunities in Habir area (up to six elected
members), NWSA, SURDU, NWRA, and the Ibb and Taiz govemors." The committee of eleven (later
increased to 16, including two representative from Al Haima, two representatives from Taiz and an
additional representative from NWSA) was designed in such a way that representatives of local
communities would have a majority. The implicit assumption that governors and agency heads would bow
to a majority of user representatives in a committee that they did not contribute to create was apparently
never questioned. The steering committee met only twice during the duration of the whole project. In one
instance it proved very useful, when it mediated between local communities and NWSA Taiz branch to
reach an agreement about the reduction of pumping from the West Habir wells which had affected pumping
from a nearby community well. Nevertheless, community representatives complained that it was ineffective.
The steering committee could have been smaller and more active, and it should have been supported by
qualified local social consultants working in close coordination with local communities and the
implementing agencies.
The project should have been based on realistic assumptions about water resource availability and timing.
It should also have included a requirement to reduce urban leakage losses in a comprehensive manmer
before agreeing. to support a water transfer to Taiz. Unaccounted-for water was more than 50% and the
rural population was well aware of inefficient water use in the city, making them even more reluctant to
agree to water transfers than they already were. A KfW-funded loss reduction project was undertaken in
the old city of Taiz city in parallel to the project, but the area covered was only a limited portion of the
total network.
-4 -



The economic analysis - which calculated the economic rate of return at 55 percent ! - was based on
overoptimnistic assumptions, in particular concerning the shadow price of water, the achievable reduction of
unaccounted-for water and project timing. Finally, implementation agencies reported that they were not
sufficiently consulted during project preparation.
Finally, the choice of performance indicators was sub-optimal. Indicators consisted mainly of physical
inputs and outputs, many of which were not very meaningful by themselves. Unfortunately the few outcome
and impact indicators were not very meaningful, since some of these indicators were difficult to monitor
under the circumstances (such as overabstraction of the Al Haima aquifer) and others were actually rather
input indicators (such as employment).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project, measured against the project development objective, was
unsatisfactory. The project's first objective was to mitigate the immediate water shortage in Taiz "by
increasing supply by about 100 percent" without giving a figure for the base year. Elsewhere, the SAR
states that "water from eight of the nine proposed wells are expected to yield 173 Us". Even if the operation
of the wells in East Habir - which started only in April 2002 - will not be interrupted by local communities
and if the water quality problem at well No. 6 is resolved, the project would increase the supply to Taiz by
only 60 Ils (25 Ils from East Habir and 35 I/s from Hogalla-Hoban based on a new well supplying 10 I/s
and a high assumption about leakage from the existing pipeline in the order of 25 I/s). But it could be as
little as 40 Us if the water quality problem at wekk No. 6 is not resolved. Water from Hogalla-Hoban is of
low quality and can only be made available if sufficient additional good-quality water from East Habir
becomes available for blending. During a test pumping of well No. 6 in East Habir in March 2002 water
with a temperature of 43 degree celsius was produced. The problem remained unresolved at the time of
writing, making the water unfit for consumption for the time being. The above estimates do not include
another 20 IUs that were made available in 1996 from the West Habir wells and trunkline that were funded
by GOY from its own resources.
The second objective, the development and testing of an institutional framework for decentralized water
resources management through participation of local communities, has clearly not been achieved. The
Habir and Al Haima areas - with a history of social conflict, a complex and ill-understood aquifer system,
and involving the transfer of water both from one govemorate to another (from Ibb to Taiz) as well as from
a rural area to an urban area - was one of the more difficult areas in Yemen to test such a framework. It
should, however, be noted that the project was relatively successful in introducing participatory
arrangements for the operation of rural water supply and small irrigation infrastructure, as opposed to
participation in the management of water resources. Unlike the latter, the forrne was not among the
project's objectives. It also improved agricultural production through water harvesting and protection of
fields against flood flows. This was not among the project's stated objectives either.
Finally, the third objective of promoting private sector participation in the management of water and
wastewater utility services by entering into a management contract in the 'second phase' of the Taiz Water
Supply Project has not been achieved. The Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Project ID 57602), which
can be considered a replacement for the 'second phase' of the project, aims at introducing private sector
participation in selected cities in Yemen, beginning with Sana'a. Taiz is included in the project, but the
timing and the form of private sector participation have not yet been decided. A study under the Taiz pilot
project that was supposed to assess PSP options did not address the issue adequately. At the request of
IDA it was thus decided to drop this component. Meanwhile another donor (GTZ) funded an on-going
- 5-



study to assess PSP options in water resources management in the Taiz area.
It should, however, be noted that the project did bring substantial benefits to both the rural population of
Al Haima and Habir and the urban population of Taiz at a reasonable cost, as evidenced by the high rate
of return achieved. In fact, it seems that the implementing agencies, with the support of the Bank,
constantly modified their approach in a pragmatic manner in response to changing circumstances. A
pragmatic revised objective could be phrased as follows: "The project aims at (i) providing as much
drinking water from Habir and any other available source to Taiz as politically, environmentally and
technically feasible; (ii) implementing development measures in the Habir and Al Haima as agreed with
local communities, including in particular the satisfaction of drinking water needs; and (iii) assessing the
technical and social feasibility of the development of new water resources for Taiz." Defined in such a way,
the project did achieve its objectives. However, since the project development objective at appraisal was
never revised, the achievements under the project must be measured against the original benchmark and
have to be rated unsatisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The following table shows the sub-components at appraisal, their implementation status at completion.
Original Sub-Component   Implementation Status    Original Cost      Actual Costs
Estimate (US$m)    (US$ m)
1.1 Wells and associated  Implemented without IDA  1.15              n.a.
equipment                funding (by GOY)
1.2 Aquifer Monitoring  Implemented without IDA   Included in 1.1   n.a.
Wells                    funding (by UNDP)
1.3 Transmission Piping  Implemented after changes  1.6              3.65
and delays
1.4 Generators          Implemented with delays    0.7               Included in 1.3
1.5 Habir Water Supply  Implemented with delays   Included in 2.1   Included in 2.1
1.6.1 Technical Studies  Implemented with delays   1.75              1.05
1.6.2 Management Contract Not implemented          0.15              n.a.
Preparation
2.1 Al Haima Water Supply Implemented with delays,  1.9               1.2
but below cost estimate
2.2. Demonstration       Implemented after changes  0.4              0.75
Irrigation Schemes       and delays
2.3 Women Activities     Implemented               0.1               0.1
2.4 Feasibility Studies for  Dropped and balance used  0.3
Dams                     for 2.2.
2.5 School Rooms         Implemented               0.03              0.03
3.1 Groundwater          Implemented with delays,  2.1               1.33
Exploration Taiz         but below cost estimate
3.2 Groundwater          Implemented with delays   Included in 3.1   Included in 3.1
Exploration Wadi Rasyan
3.3 Hadramaut Study      Implemented without IDA   0.3               n.a.
Funding (UNDP/NL)
Project Preparaton Facility  Implemented with      0.65              0.65
substantial delays
Total                                              11.1              8.75
-6 -



A detailed assessment of the outputs of each component is included in the project files. Annex 1 shows
output performance indicators.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 20%. This analysis includes all components that
are amenable to an economic analysis and whose costs is about 70% of total project costs. The rates of
return of the main components / sub-components is as follows:
*   TWSLC component         (US$ 4.6m):   20% (based on an estimated incremental flow of 42 I/s -
for details see above)
*   RWS component           (US$ 1.2m):   23%
*   Agricultural component  (US$ 0.75m):  26%.
A detailed description of assumptions and methodology is included in Annex 3. An Excel file with the
spreadsheet used for the calculation is part of the project file.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rates of return were calculated for the water supply components. The financial rate of return
of the agricultural component is estimated to be very high, since the farmers did not have to pay for any
investment costs and the economic rate of return (including the investment costs) is already satisfactory.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact has been minimal. Concerning TWSLC, the major reform step envisaged
at appraisal was the introduction of a management contract, which never materialized. Concerning
SURDU, substantial training and capacity building was undertaken on the rural water supply side through
the services of the social team. However, SURDU was dismantled at project closure. The decision to
dismantle SURDU was not related to the project. SURDU was active in a broad variety of rural
development activities all over the governorates of Taiz and Ibb. NWRA was not institutionally
strengthened and continues to experience a variety of institutional weaknesses and a strong centralization in
decision-making, while capacity by its local staff in the Taiz branch is high.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The lack of acceptance of the East Habir pipeline by the local communities was a factor largely outside the
control of government. Indeed the central government became involved in reconfirning the implementation
of the compensation package in October 2001, including adding the drilling of five new wells so substitute
for four wells drilled earlier but that were dry. The government thus made it possible that the construction
of the pipeline was completed, although overabstraction would be exacerbated by these new wells. The
government also made compensation available for land that was confiscated to drill wells, but in at least
one case disputes about land ownership made it impossible to disburse that money. It could thus be argued
that the lack of acceptance of the pipeline despite the government's best efforts can be considered as being
outside the control of the government.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government contribution to the project was not made fully available. Total government contribution
should have been US$ 0.9 million according to the SAR, but only US$ 0.5 (check latest figure) were made
available. However, the SAR does not provide details on how the local contribution was calculated, and a
re-assessment based on the cost breakdown and funding shares given in the SAR indicates that the estimate
-7-



may have been too high. In some cases, the government did not pay its contribution for some contracts
because they were procured in accordance with IDA guidelines, but not in accordance with government
guidelines. This was the case of some small works contracts under the SURDU component that were not
subject to competitive bidding under IDA guidelines, but should have been advertised under government
guidelines. In most other cases the government apparently paid its contribution.
The government did assign the NWSA Taiz Branch a coordinating role for the three PMUs. However, this
proved to be largely ineffective, partially because of the structure of the agencies and their supervising
Ministries: TWSLC (earlier on: NWSA Taiz Branch) is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Electricity
and Water; SURDU was under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation; and NWRA is
an independent agency whose head has the rank of a Minister and reports to the Cabinet. Maling the lead
role of the TWSLC effective would have required a substantial political commitment at the highest level,
which was simply not available at most times for a relatively small project such as the Taiz project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Coordination between the three implementing agencies was minimal, although NWSArTWSLC had
theoretically been assigned a lead role. However, for the reasons outlined above it was unable to fulfill that
role, and the lack of coordination can thus be considered to have been only to a very limited extent subject
.to implementing agencies control.
Concerning many contracts, procurement was very slow, which was to some extent under the control of the
implementing agencies, although for larger contracts the central government, the Tender Board and the
Bank also played an important role. The lack of pre-qualification of contractor for two major works
contracts by NWSAJTWSLC has been a mistake. The initial unwillingness of all three implementing
agencies to engage the services of social consultants to complement in-house capacity, despite the
admittance of the importance of social issues, was another mistake that made it more difficult to adequately
address important social issues in a timely manner.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs were estimated at US$ 11.1 million at appraisal, out of which US$ 10.2 million were to
be financed by IDA and US$ 0.9 million by GOY. The actual costs are estimated at US$ 9.0 million, out of
which US$ 8.5 million are financed by IDA and US$ 0.5 million by GOY. The main reason for the
inability to disburse the full loan amount was the inability of NWRA to fully recommit amounts that had
been made available through restructuring to new activities within the scope of the project and - where new
activities were identified - to procure them in a timely manner (for details on costs and financing see Annex
2).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
TWSLC: The Taiz Local Water and Sanitation Corporation was created in February 2001, in line with a
policy to create local water and sanitation corporations in major Yemeni cities where they took over
responsibility from the national utility NWSA. This decentralized structure is expected to encourage
autonomous decision-making, increase flexibility and to improve accountability. In January 2000 water
tariffs were raised, resulting in an increase in water revenues from YR 190m in 1999 to YR 292m in 2000
(+54%) according to the audited income statement. In January 2001 the local council of Taiz approved
another tariff increase of about 50 %. A successful loss reduction program was recently completed in two
central neighborhoods of Taiz under KfW funding. Further loss reduction programs are expected under the
upcoming Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project, which also aims at introducing private sector
participation (under a management contract or a lease) in a number of Yemeni cities, including possibly
-8 -



Taiz. Under the private sector contract, the private operator will have incentives to improve and to maintain
performance, thus increasing the likelihood of sustainable operation.
SURDU: A decision to dismantle SURDU, a regional rural development agency covering the governorates
of Taiz and Ibb, has been taken recently, effective by December 2001. The staff of SURDU will be
attached to the local branches of the respective local Ministries, including the Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation and the Ministry of Public Works. It is not clear to which agency the SURDU staff involved in
supporting rural water supply schemes will be attached. It has been suggested that NWSA should be in
charge of RWS and that the respective SURDU staff would thus be attached to NWSA. A decision in this
matter is still pending. The dismantling of SURDU could have a negative impact on the sustainability of the
various schemes built with the help of SURDU in the Al Haima and Habir area.
RWS: Eight out of twelve RWS schemes that have been handed over to communities. Beneficiaries have
formed water user associations, nominated committees to operate the pumps and to collect fees, as well as
determiined fees and collect them in six communities. However, the level of fees covers only energy costs
and some salaries, while some operators still work for free. Also, no provisions are made for major
maintenance as of yet. There are plans to increase water tariffs, but these remain to be implemented.
Especially after the dismantling of SURDU there is a risk that the water user associations will not be
assisted if they face operational problems. Thus, there is a risk that some schemes may temporarily break
down and will not be repaired. The risk that repair will be neglected is somewhat higher during the wet
season when shallow wells contain water and in those communities where altemative supplies from
agricultural wells are comparatively closer. In the case of the four RWS whose water supply depends on
the East Habir pipeline, their sustainability depends, in addition to the factors named above, on the
completion of that pipeline.
Irrigation: The irrigation schemes are likely to be sustainable. The infrastructure is located close to the
farmers' land, directly benefiting them, built with labor of local communities. Nine irrigation associations
have been created to maintain the infrastructure. It is, however, too early to assess if the structures will
actually be maintained, since they have been completed only very recently.
WID : The WID centers have benefited from close support of SURDU staff. Their sustainability after the
end of the project is uncertain in the absence of external support, although interest by local women in
training activities and the labor contribution during construction indicate a high degree of ownership.
Schools : The school buildings have been handed over to the Ministry of Education and are being used.
This small sub-component is likely to be sustainable.
NWRA: The sustainability rating is not applicable to the NWRA component, which consisted mainly of
exploratory drilling, as well as socio-economic and hydrological studies. The results of these studies are
expected to lay the groundwork for the development of future water supplies to Taiz, based on sound
hydro-geological studies and a good understanding of the local social context. In that sense, they are an
essential prerequisite for the sustainable development of the city and govemorate of Taiz.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
TWSLC: The works and equipment will be operated by an existing utility, which has substantial
experience with the operation and maintenance of such works and equipment. (check for training, esp. for
new types of pumps/vehicles). The recent increase in water tariffs and the planned management contract
(see above under 6.1.) are part of transition arrangements that will facilitate regular operations and
maintenance in the future.
-9-



SURDU: RWS: Training for the members of the committees of water user associations has been
completed. While the transition to regular operations has been completed, tariffs need to be increased and
further occasional technical support from SURDU/NWSA may be needed to ensure regular maintenance
and timely repairs. In the case of the four schemes on the East Habir pipeline, the pipeline has to be
completed and wells have to be put into operation. Irrigation: The equipment and works are being regularly
operated by the beneficiaries.
NWRA: Not applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in lending was unsatisfactory. The reasons are listed in paragraph 3.5
(Quality at Entry).
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was satisfactory. Supervision was carried out from the field - with support from
headquarters - by a multi-disciplinary task team drawn from both the regional infrastructure department
and the regional rural development department, as well as specialist skills from elsewhere in the Bank.
During the early phase of supervision, the Bank team facilitated start up under the difficult conditions
resulting from design, limited capacity of implementing agencies and tensions in the project area. The
project directors for the three PMUs were recruited. A project coordination group of the agencies working
on the project was created under the chairmanship of the PMU director of NWSA Taiz branch and initially
met on a monthly basis. The Bank team worked closely with the Governor of Taiz and initiated meetings
of the steering committee. The Bank team worked hard to mitigate the shortcomings of the hurried project
preparation and to adjust to changing circumstances on the ground by (i) retrofitting a participatory water
resources management approach; (ii) identifying additional works in Hogalla-Hoban to substitute for the
works in East Habir that were financed by GOY before the project became effective; (iii) modifying the
technical assistance sub-component to prepare tender documents to allow works under the first project
component to be procured and to be supervised, (iv) entrusting all rural water supply activities to SURDU
instead of splitting them between SURDU and NWSA; and (v) replacing irrigation wells, demonstration
farms and dams by gabions for flood protection, improvements in irrigation efficiency, and small water
harvesting structures. The retrofitted participatory water resources management approach was pursued
tenaciously despite numerous obstacles. For example, initially none of the three implementing agencies
agreed to support a team of local social scientists to work on this activity, so that the Bank arranged for
Trust Fund financing, and also added some financing from Bank budget The developments and lessons
learned were very well documented, including in a series of notes halfway through the project. This
documentation - maintained in addition to the standard documentation - proved to be very useful. It
obviously allowed the team to focus on substantial issues in a better way than through formalized Bank
processes.
The mid-term review, scheduled early in the project life in June 1998, was carried out by a team
independent of the regular task team. It concluded that the project was well supervised and that there was
substantial progress, leading to satisfactory ratings on all counts. There are, however, a number of caveats.
NWRA PMU had "no real commitment or ownership"; NWSA PMU was unable to fulfill its stated
objective of overall coordination of the project; communities told the Bank that they were not informed
- 10-



about relevant developments in the steering committee, while at the same time expectations by communities
had increased due to the project, so that they now expected the government to be in charge of even
operation and maintenance of rural drinking water supply schemes without any charge. The report by the
social scientist noted that the term 'compensation package' had been poorly chosen, and that it should be
rather called a 'development package' to reduce expectations by local communities. The mid-term review
suggested to formally restructure the project components and to change the credit agreement. The MTR did
not modify the project development objective, although it had already become apparent at that time that the
objective was not any more realistic. After the MTR, the task team proposed the formal restructuring of the
project, but Bank management was uncertain about a proposed micro-credit scheme intended to promote
off-farm employment and to reduce reliance on water-intensive irrigation. A formal restructuring was
postponed and was undertaken only in 2001 when the credit agreement was amended.
In February 2000 a major Bank mission including a senior Bank expert visited Yemen and the project area
as part of the preparation of the new Bank Water Resources Strategy. The mission was critical about the
project, referring to a diffusion of focus ("too many bells and whistles") and alleging an ill-conceived
approach concerning community participation, which was said to neglect the influence of local sheikhs and
their importance as the main water users in the area. At the same time the composition of the task team was
changed. After the mission the earlier emphasis on water resources management was effectively dropped.
Supervision in the last phase of the project, which was originally to be closed in June 2000 and had to be
extended twice, focused on implementing all formal project components in a timely manner. This was done
despite numerous difficulties faced by contractors - pardy due to social tensions - and despite some
persistent conflicts between contractors, supervising consultants and implementing agencies. Due to the
close supervision, all works were completed by March 2002. During that period substantial input continued
to be given from a Bank social scientist on participatory aspects of the rural water supply schemes.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory, despite poor quality at entry.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
It is difficult to assess the borrower's performance during preparation, partly due to the scarcity of relevant
documentation compared to supervision. The central government has been active in arranging the
compensation arrangement for the Habir area prior to the project. This laid the foundation for the
rural-urban water transfer at the heart of the project. But the compensation agreement proved to be a mixed
blessing, because it (i) involved a wide array of diverse activities under the responsibility of various
agencies and (ii) created strong expectations for government support among the local communities and thus
undermined efforts at community participation. Furthermore, the government accepted an implementation
structure including three PMUs under the jurisdiction of two Ministries and NWRA, entailing the risk of
insufficient coordination, which materialized during the project Also, the central government accepted the
creation of a large and unwieldy steering committee that proved to be ineffective during implementation.
Both NWSA and SURDU emphasize that they were not sufficiently consulted during project preparation,
which makes the assessment of their performance during preparation even harder. NWRA was created only
during project preparation. NWSA's performance during preparation is tainted by the neglect to highlight
the need to include consultancy services for design, tender preparation and construction supervision in the
project. These were not included in the original contract for technical assistance which had to be amended
during implementation. Furthermore, NWSA agreed to implement mrual water supply schemes, an activity
in which it had no experience.



7.5 Government implementation performance:
Central government, in particular the Minister of Electricity and Water, and the governors of the two
governorates covered by the project, in particular the governor of Taiz, provided crucial support to move
the project forward at difficult junctures. For example, the Minister of Electricity and Water played an
important role in negotiating with local communities who had blocked construction of the East Habir
pipeline towards the end of the project. This intervention allowed the trunkline to be completed until project
closure. The governor of Taiz played an important role in the steering committee when it achieved a
temporary reduction of pumping in West Habir at the request of local communities, as well as during the
later phase of the project during the construction of the East Habir pipeline.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
NWSA Taiz Branch / TWSLC: Progress on the NWSA component was initially very slow, partly due to
changing PMU directors and due to the initial lack of provision for technical assistance for the preparation
of tender documents. Cooperation with the engineering consultant in charge of preparing tender documents
and of construction supervision was difficult. There was no pre-qualification in the process of procuring the
contractor for the two main contracts under this component. The perfornance of the contractor proved to
be weak. Together with work disruptions due to social tensions in the project area this led to very slow
execution of works. In the initial phase of the project, the Taiz branch had to clear all activities with
NWSA headquarters, thus exacerbating to delays. This improved after TWSLC was created in February
2001. Since then, tariffs were increased twice, strengthening TWSLCs financial position considerably.
Close supervision has been necessary to ensure the execution of works and to prevent delays beyond the
delays experienced by the project A positive feature under this component was the timely identification of
new activities to substitute activities carried out with GOY financing, thus allowing the funds under this
component to be fully used.
SURDU: SURDU has been very effective in adjusting the design of the rural water supply schemes in
consultation with local communities in order to extend the coverage of the schemes substantially, without
incurring additional costs. It has also been effective at procuring goods and works for the schemes in a
timely manner. SURDU was initially somewhat reluctant to include communities rather than contractors in
the laying of pipes, but it adapted its approach later on. The creation of water user associations for the
rural water supply schemes and the associated training faced some difficulties related to differences in
approach between SURDU and consultants hired to help SURDU in this respect ("the social team"). For
details about the rural water supply schemes see Annex 9.
NWRA: Unlike the other implementing agencies, no PMU for NWRA was created in Taiz in the absence of
clearance from NWRA headquarters. There were major delays in the implementation of the exploratory
drilling program. This was partly explained by opposition from some local communities against drilling and
an agreement with IDA that drilling should only be carried out after the social team had ensured community
consent for drilling. A. study for water resources management plans in Wadi Masila was cancelled because
procurement guidelines were not followed. After that it took a long time to identify a substitute study and
prepare terms of reference. The small social team within the Taiz branch of NWRA was apparently not
adequately qualified. NWRA refused to "host" the social team hired by the Bank and at times refused to
cooperate with that team. Reports were inadequate and late. About US$ 0.7m from the allocated funds to
that component were not used at the end of the project In the early phase of the project NWRA made a
considerable effort to gather data on water resources, water uses (including a well inventory) and
stakeholder attitudes in the project area as part of the "Taiz Water Management Plan" covering Upper
Wadi Rasyan. These covered the essential data that had not been collected as part of project preparation.
Finally, the preparation of studies for regional water management plans for Taiz and Sa'adah, following
- 12 -



Tenns of Reference carefully drafted by NWRA, strike a very positive concluding note to the NWRA
component
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Due to strong performance by the Minister of Electricity and Water and the Governor of Taiz, overall
borrower performance is considered satisfactory, despite mixed and sometimes weak performance by
implementing agencies.
8. Lessons Learned
Generic lessons for all types of projects are:
*   Do not combine a pilot approach with an emergency project.
* In an emergency project, time is scarce. Established, low-risk approaches should be used to deliver
results quickly and in a reliable manner.If there is no such tested low-risk approach, resist pressure to
rush a project under emergency circumstances. Rather make sufficient time for careful preparation
available and assess other options to cope with the emergency, including financing from government
sources.
*   In a pilot project, new approaches should be tested, the risk of failure should be deliberately taken, and
time should be allowed for careful monitoring and evaluation in view of drawing lessons for the future.
Pilots are only appropriate where there is uncertainty over the right approach. If this applies only to
parts of a project, only the respective component should be labelled a pilot component and not the
whole project.
* Assess all risks in a comprehensive, frank and realistic manner
* Include staff with all specialities relevant for a particular project in the preparation and supervision
teams
* Revise the project development objective if it does not reflect reality any more, and formalize any
changes of objectives and components in the Credit Agreement once they have been agreed to;
*   Avoid three different implementing agencies and PMUs, even at the cost of being limited to a more
narrowly focused sectoral approach.
Specific lessons for water resources management projects or water resources management components of
water projects are:
*   Up-front and as a priority it is essential to have a good understanding of the water resource, the shape
of the aquifers and the relation between them, and the relationships between surface and groundwater
resources.
*   On the basis of this understanding of the resource, there is a need to spell out the "hydraulic goal " of
the project - what do we mean by sustainability for each aquifer, what is an acceptable rate of resource
depletion, what is the plan for each aquifer taking account of existing rights and public interest.
*   There is a need for up-front stakeholder analysis that: (a) identifies rights holders and the nature of
their rights; (b) identifies other users and their rights and relation to the water rights holders; (c)
analyses the existing organizational and institutional structure, including the rules and sanctions; and
(d) conducts a "sociopolitical" assessment of the dynanic and the scope for change
*   The stakeholder analysis should be used as the basis to select upfront stakeholder institutions that are
as representative as possible and work with them on project design.
*   There is a need to agree up front on an institutional development plan that defines the nature of the
partnership between Government and the local stakeholders, and provides a road map for developing
the capacity of stakeholder institutions. The road map for the development of stakeholder institutions
- 13-



will need an adequate timeframe, as this is a slow process.
*   There has to be a clear water resources management strategy that defines how the hydraulic goal is to
be achieved, what the role of each actor is, and what is the package of rules and incentives which are
expected to bring about changes in water management behavior.
* The state should put in place the enabling framework for decentralized management. Under this, the
state would (a) allow local organizations to handle their own affairs; (b) recognize and respect
traditional rights and the decisions of decentralized institutions; and (c) provide needed tools of useful
rules, education, information, technology, incentives, "court of appeal".
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Since this project had three implementing agencies, three separate comments were received from TWSLC,
SURDU and NWRA Taiz branch. The comments are included as they were received. Specific comments
concerning figures and data were incorporated directly in the ICR and have not all been included below.
1. Comments by TWSLC
1.     Major Factors Affecting the Project:
*      The policy to engage three agencies to implement the project.
Un-clearness of socioeconomic studies during the pre-appraisal of the project in order to have
direct dialogue with the stakeholders at the rural areas.
The non-adequate studies for Habir aquifer which led to inaccurate estimation of the safe yield that
can be extracted from Habir (it was proposed to be 150 lit/sec from 6 wells). While the physical pumping
from 3 wells in west Habir for a period of 6 months, prove that the safe yield from those three wells should
not exceed (20 lit/sec.) this indication lead to a reduction of water extraction from the remaining three
wells in east Habir to (20 lit/sec.) as it was recommended by NWRA. The reduction in production forces
NWSA and IDA to minimize the investment in Habir well field and investigate the best use of the savings
in components that can achieve the objectives of the project (Contract #2, and Contract #3).
Due to the previous experience that lead to mistrust of the people in rural area of transferring water
to urban areas without recompense in return.
Using the post-qualification procedure in selecting the contractor lead to the selection of less
experience contractor.
Delay in payment from the government contribution budget.
2.     Project Sustainabilitv:
The project Succeeded in achieving its objectives especially in increasing water production for Taiz
by saving about 20 lit/sec the losses from Hougalla/Houban transmission line, and by pumping 10 lit/sec
from a new well in Hougalla (contract # 2). Also by pumping 5 lit/sec from well # 5, 15 lit/sec from well #
6 in east Habir. In addition to the 20 lit/sec produced from wells # 1, # 2 and # 3 in west Habir that has
been financed by Yemen Government and put in operation in 1996. This results to a reduction on the time
of rationing the water supply in Taiz from 40 days in 1996, to 10-18 days at most in the year 2002.
The project succeeded in supporting the TWSLC with vehicles, pipes, equipment, and spare parts
have to improve the Operation and Maintenance capabilities of TWSLC.
With the tariff increased in January 2002, the revenue collected allows TWSLC to cover its
- 14 -



expenses (other than Depreciation and dept services).
3.     Bank Performance
The frequency of the Bank's missions was adequate. The mission who visited the site during the
implementation of the project gave their assistance and cooperation to the entire satisfaction of the PIU in
finalizing many issues that required quick decision.
4.     Borrower Performance:
One.   The PrU has successfully fulfilled its obligations with assistance of IDA's supervision missions.
Two.   The project received strong support from the related ministries, (MEW, MOPD, MOF) and from
the Governors of Taiz and Ibb Governorates.
Three. The PIU, NWSA HQ, and TWSLC maintained accurate records of project accounts which were.
audited by independent external Audit finn, audit reports were submitted to IDA in due time.
Four. The PrU has submitted progress reports to IDA regularly.
Five. The certified payments have been applied for payment.
5.     Assessment of Outcomes
The project Succeeded in achieving its objectives especially in increasing water production for Taiz by
saving about 20 lit/sec the losses from Hougalla/Houban transmission line, and by pumping 10 lit/sec
from a new well in Hougalla (contract # 2). Also by punping 5 lit/sec from well # 5, 15 lit/sec from well #
6 in east Habir. In addition to the 20 lit/sec produced from wells # 1, # 2 and # 3 in west Habir that has
been financed by Yemen Government and put in operation in 1996. This results to a reduction on the time
of rationing the water supply in Taiz from 40 days in 1996, to 10-18 days at most in the year 2002.
6.     Key Lessons Learned
The TWSPP has been implemented satisfactorily in general despite the necessity to extend the original
closing date of 30/6/2000, by 18 months, and despite the social problems in rural areas.
The project has achieved its objective to certain extent and thus provided useful lessons during its
implementation period as follows:
One.   To prepare detailed and deep socioeconomic studies during the pre-appraisal of the project in order
to build the trust and avoid the disputes between the project and the rural communities.
Two.   To involve the stakeholders during the negotiation and the preparation of the project.
Three. To award the PMU's more authorities and facilities as an autonomous unit to enable the proper
execution of its tasks.
Four. To facilitate the disbursement of the counterpart budget without delay similar to the IDA
contribution.
Five. One Authority or identity should manage the implementation of all various activities in the project.
Six.   The sizes of the packages should be high to avoid awarding the contracts to non-qualified finms.
Seven. The pre-qualification of contractors and/ or consultants is essential to avoid the awarding the
contracts to non-qualified finns.
2. Comments by SURDU
-15 -



It is mentioned in the SAR that the Policy and Strategy of the World Bank for this project will be the basic
and. implemented in this project to confront the water crisis in Taiz, but in fact the crisis is still faced.
The Project was not able to find new resources to meet the water demands after completion of the Project in
the Year 2000. The results of the exploration are mostly high and faraway from Taiz city.
Our recommendations for the provision of water from the rural areas are to buy the water from these cities
to the Urban areas and transfer it through the Galvanized pipes without any compensation.
NWRA prepared the study for the Water Resources Management for the Upper Wadi of Rasyan and the
output from this study is Water Resources Management Action Plan (WRMAP). NWRA should implement
that plan and the World Bank has to follow this issue with the Agency.
3. Comments by NWRA
Page 2: " The base line for the 100% increase was not mentioned" Because at that time no body
knows the quantity of water pumped to Taiz. There were no flow meters installed on the wells to
measure the quantities. This has been done by NWRA-Taiz since the end of 1998. From 1999 until
know measurements are done in monthly bases. The average abstraction rate in the last three years
was 7.5 Mm3/y.
Water availability is not a constrain to start management contract. Management contract should
come to resolve this issue also.
"The Project under estimate complex of the weak capacity and social tension". You should reflect
that in the learning lessons. At least we know now our weakness. All organization in Taiz should
find solution to resolve such problems.
Page 3: The project development objectives were left unchanged. Who is responsible for that?
Also, the evaluation should be based in the new developed objectives not in the starting ones. This
has not been done in the ICR.
The combination of Pilot with emergency approach proved to be unfortunate. But, What about if
you did not have sufficient, reliable, and clear picture about all the initial inputs to start an
emergency project? This was our situation. What are you going to do then?
The SAR used substantial ground water in the Habir area (140 IUs) as a basis for planning. That
was the available data at that time. Hydrological and hydrogeological data needs long series of data
to give good conclusions especially in areas like Taiz. Aquifers in Taiz have high response to
recharge boundary.
In one instance it proved very useful, when it mediated between local communities and NWSA
Taiz branch to reach an agreement about the reduction..... That was not the committee effort that
was the effort from NWRA Taiz. NWRA-Taiz used the monitoring data to convince NWSA-Taiz
that it is not economical to continue operating the well with high production. Also it was a solution
for the society well, which is near by NWSA wells to avoid high drawdown in that well.
* Based on realistic assumption. Realistic assumption needs good data, good knowledge, and clear
information. Which was not available at that moment
* Implementation agencies reported that they were not sufficiently consulted during project
preparation. Does that mean NWSA was not there. This is an excuse not to work hard for the
success of the project.
* The main objectives were not achieved but we work together to investigate the possibility to
implement water resources management NWSA as a water user started to understand that there is
a new approach for water resources management. According to that they started to arrange their
priorities to take action to improve their operational work especially in resources sector.
- 16 -



* Working together with the people made the people to think in different ways. NWRA-Taiz still
advised all the water users, the different implementation units, as well as the local council in the
area and the decision maker to evaluate: What we did? Was it good enough? Did all parties do
there best to use that chance? What shall we do if we have new fund? How are we going to use it?
We should realize that WRM is a continuous process.
It also improved agriculture production through water harvesting.... This is an output
from the experience and data collection during the project. This was done based on a written advice
given by NWAR-Taiz during the PMU's meetings. Similarly contract number 2 and 3 all of them
had been taken during meetings. NWSA PMU has been highly loaded from the project and that is
why he is saying he has no control in the others PMU's (Please sea all the minutes of the meetings
and the successful decision and advice given during that meetings. Most of the big advice was
given by NWRA-Taiz in written form).
Since the project development objective at appraisal was never revised .... Why has it been
done? Evaluation in the base of the original objective is not fair at all.
Aquifer monitoring implemented by NWRA-Taiz with UNDP fund.
Feasibility studies for dams from the point of few of hydrology, hydrogeology, geology,
and water rights have been done by NWRA-Taiz for Habir and Al Haima areas. A report in Arabic
has been released with conclusions and recommendations. According to that the available budget
has been used for other purposes useful for the people. For Warzan dam a lot of data has been
collected for this purpose.
Hadramout study implemented by NWRA head quarter with fund from UNDP/NL.
Capacity building in NWRA-Taiz through this project:
 Train two graduate engineers and a technician in supervising deep drilling,
pumping test, well logs, lithology logs. etc
 Train the engineers in storing, analyzing and reporting on the collected data.
 Train two engineer and sociologist during the social economic study carried in
Taiz area, and five from Sana'a office.
Making the lead role of the TWSLC effective would have required.... No they need to take and
practice responsibility and decision better than given an excuse for them selves.
For the reasons outlined above it was unable to fulfill that role.... No because they have many
activities, small number of employee, inexperience in group works. People should understand the
meaning of higher salaries.
In Jan 2002 tariff also increased at present the revenue of TWSLC is around 35 MYR per month.
SURDU, all equipments should come back to NWSA and Local Council.
Local Council should be included in supervising and follow-up of those projects.
Irrigation: will be maintained from the users.
WID: should be hand over to the local council to supervise and support.
Schools: Two schools have been constructed in Al Haima by Social fund and Construction project
fund, Electricity project has covered all Al Haima and part of Habir area since this project started.
NWRA: According to its mandate it will assist all water users in the area for the best way to use
the available resources.
Persistent conflict between contractors, supervising..... The contractor thinks it is their rights to get
the many as long as they sign the contract. They think that they should do the work with minimum
cost without thinking about its equality. ICR did not evaluate or mentioned any thing about the
contractors. I think they should be black listed from future projects (NWRA as well as NWSA
contractor).
A positive feature under this component was the timely.... All the saving from the project comes
from NWRA budget or from NWRA advices' for the different implemented agencies such as the
- 17-



size of Habir project, the feasibility study for the dams, using the available capacities and
knowledge instead of consultancy. NWRA-Taiz took the following additional responsibility in this
project:
 Attending all meetings during the project and participated in them.
 Attending most of the meetings between the contractors and the organization.
 Taking full responsibility about the decision taking related to water resources.
  Try to solve the conflicts between the different parties within the project
Lessons learned:
 All aquifers in Taiz are small and highly affected with abstraction and recharge.
 In future Taiz should get its supply from more than one area.
 Unit price of water will increase rapidly.
 Water supply from surface water should be considered (Warzan could be a good
area)
 The project initiate new approach between different water users.
 The project shows that improvement not only needed in water resources but in
different activities of the organization.
  The project started to build the main foundation to improve water supply to Taiz.
 Structure geology has highly affected the aquifers in negative way.
 Volcanic fracture aquifer characterize by low production high drawdown, and low
quality water, and highly heterogeneous.
 Deep wells in volcanic have relatively high production when the strike fault zone
(depths more than 400 m) (Sharab well and Warzan welli.
 Sandstone aquifer is highly recharge able aquifer but has a limited extend.
* Shadow price is the price of one cubic meter sold by tankers, which is equivalent to 300 YRlm3.
*  In page 26: it is stated that " Performance under (c) was weak,..... Why should we continue
depending on consultancy? Can't NWSA do this job or its PMU and his group?
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
See Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
TWSLC:
Target               Actual                    Remarks
Output indicator:                                                                 Excluding   West   Habir  and
a. Water production, Cubic Meters/day           12,000            3,456 - 5,184   depending  on   whether water
(40-60 Uls)    quality problems at well No. 6 can
b. Complete bidding documents for a                                               be mastered.
management contract                        satisfactory            No           Frozen at the request of IDA
Outcome Indicator:
a. Reduction of Taiz water rationing      50% (I day in 15-20   One in 15-20 days
days)
b. Implementation of management contract         yes                  No            Frozen at the request of IDA
Impact Indicator:
a. Participation of rural communities in      successful        Initiated in some   Should be under NWRA
water resources allocation                                     areas; unclear if
b. Relieve stress on Al Haima aquifer        satisfactory          continued
(by reducing over-                       Should be under NWRA
extraction by 10%)       Unknown
c. Successful management contract                Yes                               Frozen at the request of IDA
No
SURDU:
Target               Actual                    Remarks
Output Indicator:
a. Number of village water schemes (RWS)         20                   70           This includes hamlets. Includes Al
b. Number of people serviced (RWS)              14,940               26,401        Haima and Habir.
c. Number of women beneficiaries (WID)           140                  172
Outcome Indicator:
a. Number of households satisfied (RWS)         2450                 4056
b. Number of women literate (WID)                100                   81
c. Number of beneficiaries trained (WID)         140                  172
d.   Number    of    cooperatives  traine        20                    21          12 in RWS and 9 in Agriculture
(Agr.&RWS)
Impact Indicator:
a. Number of man-month locally employed         3200                 3,500
during construction (Agriculture and RWS)
b. Number of men temporarily employed in        1100                 2000
Construction (Agriculture and RWS)
c. Number of women hours saved per year by     876,000             1,678,662
provision of water supply
d. Equivalent YR input to local economy     YR19.2 million       Not monitored
during implementation of the project (2 yrs)
NWRA:
Target               Actual                    Remarks
Output Indicator:
a. Number of areas investigated                   7                    5
b. Number of wells tested                         14                   12
c. Number of water management studies             1                    2
Outcome Indicator:
a. Number of successful wells               Not determined             2
b. Number of studies completed                    I                    I
Impact Indicator:                                                                   From the two successful test wells
a. Quantity of water developed (liters./sec)  Min 250 Ips            36 I/s        (not yet exploited yet). The 36 I/s
b. Water management plans implemented            Yes           Prepared and partly  exclude potential surface water
implemented (Upper   from Wadi Warazan estimated at
_ _ _ _ _ __ _  Wadi Rasyan)  2-3 MCM/year (63-95 Its).



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    ActuaULatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million   US$ million
1. Well Field Development (by NWSA)                   5.44           5.34            0.98
2. Rural Infrastructure (by SURDU)                    2.23            2.58           1.16
3. Water Source Studies (by NWRA)                     2.27            1.38           0.61
Total Baseline Cost                                   9.94            9.30
Physical Contingencies                               0.46
Price Contingencies                                  0.68
Total Project Costs              11.08           9.30
Total Financing Required              11.08            9.30
Notes:
1. The summary cost estimate in Annex 2 of the SAR showed component 3 as "TA & Studies", although
this should rather be an expenditure category to be allocated to various components. Therefore, an amount
of US$ 1.7m - equivalent to the estimated base costs of Phase II design&preparation and management
contract preparation have been reallocated to Component 1. Also, an amount of US$ 0.25m - the estimated
base costs of the Wadi Warazan study - have been reallocated to Component 2. Component 3 is called
Water Source Studies, as in the main text of the SAR.
2. Repayment of the PPF, which was used to identify the well field, is included under Component 1.
3. Costs for each component in the SAR are not comparable to actual costs, since the former are base costs
and the latter include contingencies. Costs by component including contingencies were not shown in the
SAR.
The following table shows actual costs by sub-components (including contingencies):
Component / Sub-Component                       Cost (US$ m, actual)
1. TWSLC Components (US$ 4.69m, excl. PPF)
1.1 Well Field Development                                     3.05
1.2 Studies and Consultancy Services                           1.57
1.3 TWSLC PMU Compensation                                     0.07
2. SURDU Components (US$ 2.58m)
2.1 Rural Water Supply Schemes                                  1.20
2.2 Improvement of spate and groundwater                        0.75
inigation schemes in Habir and Al Haima
2.3 Construction of additional classrooms in                    0.03
selected Habir schools
2.4 Development of the institutional capacity of                0.02
SURDU
2.5 Women in Development Activities                             0.10
2.6. Technical Assistance, Training and SURDU                   0.48
PMU
3. NWRA Components (US$ 1.38m)
3.1 Groundwater Exploration and Testing                         1.00
3.2 Regional Water Management Plans                             0.33
3.3 Project Management                                          0.03
4. Repayment of PPF(US$ 0.65m)                                  0.65
Total                                                           9.30
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB          NCB         Other'       NB.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         1.89        0.00         0.00        1.89
(0.00)      (1.70)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (1.70)
2. Goods                    3.37         0.00        0.26         0.00        3.63
(3.20)      (0.00)       (0.25)       (0.00)      (3.45)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        4.91         0.00        4.91
(0.00)       (0.00)      (4.43)       (0.00)      (4.43)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.65         0.00        0.65
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.65)       (0.00)      (0.65)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    3.37         1.89         5.82        0.00        11.08
_   (3.20)       (1.70)      (5.33)       (0.00)      (10.23)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuaULatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.   .             ~~~~~Procurement - Method
Expenditure Category    ICB          NCB         Other2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00        4.67         0.00        0.00        4.67
(0.00)      (4.28)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (4.28)
2. Goods                    1.12        0.16         0.22        0.00         1.50
(1.08)      (0.15)       (0.20)      (0.00)       (1.43)
3. Services                 0.00        0.00         2.28        0.00        2.28
(0.00)      (0.00)       (2.24)       (0.00)      (2.24)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00         0.20        0.00        0.20
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0. 1 9)     (0.00)      (0. I 9)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00         0.65        0.00        0.65
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.65)       (0.00)      (0.65)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     1.12        4.83         3.35        0.00        9.30
(1.08)      (4.43)       (3.28)       (0.00)      (8.79)
- 21 -



Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 22 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic analysis is undertaken separately for three activities: (i) the TWSLC component (1.1; 1.2;
1.3); (ii) the six functioning rural water supply schemes (2.1); and (iii) the agricultural sub-component
(2.2). The NWRA component, consisting of exploratory drilling and studies, is not amenable to economic
analysis. The very small WID and classroom components are negligible in terms of costs. The cost of the
components that, have been included is almost 70% of total project costs. For all components included in
the economic analysis, costs and benefits have been shadow-priced by excluding taxes on the cost side and
by estimating the shadow price of water for urban water supply and the benefits from time savings for rural
water supply schemes. Costs and benefits were expressed in YR and in constant 2001 prices.
TWSLC component (US$ 4.7m): The investment cost for this component is US$ 3m, half of which is for
the East Habir pipeline and the other half for the rehabilitation of the Hogalla Hoban pumps and pipeline.
In addition, the costs of engineering design and supervision (Dorsch / Gitec) as well as the costs of the
repayment of the project preparation fund used for well field development have been added. It is assumed
that the East Habir pipeline will supply 5 I/s beginning in 2003 (excluding well No. 6 which yields 20 I/s of
very hot water), and the rehabilitation of the Hogalla Hoban pumps and pipeline will yield 35 I/s
immediately. Furthermore it is assumed that without the rehabilitation the amount of water available from
Hogalla Hoban would decline by 4 percent annually, while it can be maintained with the project. The
shadow price of water in Taiz is estimated at US$ I/cum. This value is less than the US$ 2/cum paid to
water vendors, because it can't be assumed that the willingness to pay for the limited quantities of water
supplied by water vendors is the same as the willingness to pay for much higher quantities of water
supplied through the piped distribution network (negative slope of the demand curve).
RWS component (US$ 0.6m): The estimate of the benefits was based on an average time saving of 2.5
hours/household and day, an opportunity cost of the time of YR 25 / hr (US$ 0.15/hr) for adults (almost
exclusively women) and YR 12.5 / hr (US$ 0.08 / hr) for children, and the assumption that 44% of the
hours saved are accounted by adults and 56% by children. The values for adults is derived from the daily
wage rate for unskilled labor in rural areas (YR 400 / day), divided by eight hours and multiplied by a
factor of 0.5 to arrive at the shadow wage rate that takes into consideration underemployment and the low
opportunity cost of labor. The time value of children is estimated to be about one half of the value of an
hour spent by an adult. The O&M costs of the schemes are estimated based on figures provided by
SURDU, including fuel, spare parts and salaries for pump operators and staff involved in billing. Based on
these assumptions, the economic rate of return of the six operating rural water supply schemes is estimated
at 23%. 15,000 people in 48 villages and hamlets benefited from the six schemes, receiving 38 I/c/d. The
willingness to pay per cubic meter of water is estimated at about US$ 0.6, based on the time needed to
provide water from alternative sources.
Agricultural component (US$ 0.75m): 1949 farm holdings owned by small-scale farmers (average farm
size 0.3 ha) benefited from the agricultural component of the project, covering 596 ha. 1420 holdings were
protected by gabions from floods, and 529 holdings benefited from improved piped irrigation. The main
crops grown are maize and sorghum, with tomatoes and potatoes cultivated on a small share of the area as
well (about 10% together). For maize on fields protected by gabions, a yield increase of one third is
assumed, while for most other crops yield increases are limited. The main benefit, however, is the increase
in cropping intensity from 96% to 105% on fields protected by gabions, and from 105% to 137% on fields
benefiting from improved irrigation. (Details on estimate of costs, including shadow pricing of labor).
Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return of the component is estimated at 26%.
- 23 -



Overall Analysis: In the overall analysis, the three above analyses are aggregated, and the costs of project
management (US$ 0.14m) are included. The resulting overall economic rate of return is 20%.
-24-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance, Rating
(e.g. 2 Economiists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/02/1996                  1    Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/22/1996                  1    Engineer
I   Lawyer
I   Agro-Economist
I   Socio-Economist
Supervision
01/15/1997                   2   Economists                         S            S
06/17/1997                   1   Economist                         U             U
I   Socio-Economist
1   Hydrogeologist
10/11/1997                   1   Engineer                          U             U
I   Social Scientist
2   Economist
03/24/1998                       Engineer                           S            S
Pr. Operations Officer
Economist
Participation Spec. consultant
07/10/98 MTR                 I   Sanitary Engineer
Economist / Finanical Analyst
Rural Sociologist
12/03/1998                   1   Pr. Operations Officer            S             S
I   Hydrogeologist
2   Social Scientists
I   Irrigation Specialist
04/30/1999                   1   Pr. Operations Officer             U             S
I   Cons. Wid. Specialist
I   Social' Scientist
09/27/1999                   1   Financial Analyst                  U             S
I   Pr. Operations Officer
1   Social Scientist
03/17/2000                       Financial Analyst                  S             S
Project Officer
Social Scientist
Fin. Manag. Specialist (FMS)
Hydrogeologist
Sector Manager (MNSID)
Sector Manager (MNSRE)
Senior Water Advisor
07/31/2000                   1   Lead Agric. Economist              S             S
12/02/2000                   1   Financial Analyst                  S             S
I   Pr. Operations Officer
- 25 -



I   Lead Agric. Economist
05/17/2001                  1   Financial Analyst                 S            S
ICR
11/13/2001                 1    Sr. Financial Analyst            S             S
I    Implementation Specialist
I    Economist
(b). Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No.-Staffweeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                           130,633
Supervision                                                    565,156
ICR                                                             20,000
Total                                                          715,789
-26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                             O H   OSUOM        O N   * NA
0 Sector Policies                            O H   OSUOM        * N   O NA
 Physical                                   OH OSUOM O N O NA
 Financial                                  OH OSUOM O N O NA
? Institutional Development                  0 H   O SU O M     0 N   0 NA
Fl Environmental                             O H   OSUOM        O N   * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                   O H   OSUOM        O N   O NA
O Gender                              O H OSUOM O N O NA
Li Other (Please specify)             O H   OSUOM        ON    O NA
LI Private sector development                0 H   O SU O M     0 N   0 NA
Fl Public sector management                  0 H   O SU O M     0 N   0 NA
i Other (Please specify)                     O H   OSUOM        O N   * NA
Substantial lessons about the difficulties and pitfalls of rural-urban water transfers and ofparticipatory water
resources management in the Yemeni context have been learned under the project. These lessons will be of great
importance for future projects in Yemen such as the Sana 'a
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
Ol Lending                                         OHS OS *U OHU
D Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU     O HU
El Overall                                         OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
El Preparation                                     OHS OS       * U    O HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS OS      O U    0 HU
El Implementation agencyperformance                OHS OS       * U    O HU
L Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Completion Report by SURDU
2. Completion Report by TWSLC
3. Economic Analysis Spreadsheet (Excel File in Project Files)
4. Aide Memoire of the November 2001 Supervision Mission
-29 -



Additional Annex 8. Detailed Assessment of Outputs by Components and Sub-Components
1.1 Development of the Habir Well Field and Increasing Water Supply to Taiz (US$ 3.05m)
This component included the construction of well platforms, well houses and generator buildings,
rehabilitation of the Al-Haima power station, rehabilitation of a chlorination plant and other
electromechanical works, as well as the construction of a 6km trunkline between Habir well field and
Al-Haima transmission network (Contract 1). Furthermore, it included the rehabilitation works at a 7 km
pipeline and pump station supplying bulk water from the Hogalla Hoban wellfields to Taiz (Contract 2).
The works carried out under the two contracts will allow to increase water supply to Taiz by between 40 Ils
(5 Vls from Habir and 35 Ils from Hogalla Hoban) and 60 I/s (25 Vs from Habir and 35 Ils from Hogalla
Hoban), depending on whether the current water quality problems at well No. 6 in East Habir (high
temperature) can be resolved. Water from the two sources - Habir on the one hand, Hogalla Hoban on the
other - will be blended, because the salinity and nitrate content of water from Hogalla Hoban is high. In
addition polyethylene pipes, submersible pumps, workshop equipment, spare parts, vehicles, water meters
and laboratory equipment were purchased under small contracts (so-called "Contract 3").
The construction of the East Habir pipeline faced substantial delays, initially due to slow procurement,
later on due to opposition by individual families from local communities in East Habir. The reasons for the
opposition have been the subject of much debate. Usually earlier broken promises leading to a lack of trust
between communities and the government are cited. Indeed, when wells for urban water supply were drilled
there in the 1980s in Al Haima local sheikhs apparently received all the compensation, while other
community members were not compensated. In West Habir, the pipeline was built about two to three years
before the compensation package was made available,,thus breaking an earlier promise. However, in East
Habir the construction of the pipeline was delayed for so long that the compensation package had been
made available long before any water was allowed to flow. The army actually had to be called in several
times to allow construction to proceed. Even after construction was completed, some local families
prevented the pumps from being turned on. The reason for this behavior is apparently unrelated to the
already completed compensation package. Rather, several families lay competing claims on the land that
was used to drill a well in East Habir prior to the project in 1996. The government has apparently made
available funds for compensation, but since property rights are not clearly defined and there are many
competing claims for the land it was not clear to whom this compensation should be paid. Furthermore, it
seems that some local communities are more concerned about employment of a significant number of
villagers guards, rather than a one-time cash or in-kind compensation. Given the need to contain recurrent
costs TWSLC can hardly fulfill that expectation.
1.2 Studies and Consultancy Services (US$ 1.57m)
The technical assistance under this component included: (a) design of technical specification leading to
preparation of the tender documents for Contract No I (Works-Habir), Contract No 2 (Works
Hoban/Hogalla) and Contract 3 for procurement of goods to support the TWSLC; (b) construction
supervision for Contracts I & 2; and (c) preparation of Initial Development Plan (IDP), Environment
Impact Assessment (EIA), feasibility studies, detailed design, pre-qualification documents, evaluation
report and short list, final tender documents for the following: (i) rehabilitation of the existing water and
wastewater networks for Taiz; (ii) review of Howard Humphrey's Tender Documents for Habeel Al Dhabi
Sewerage system to cover the eastern part of Taiz; (iii) rehabilitation of the existing water and wastewater
networks for Al Qaidah including any expansion to the existing systems. The works for which studies have
been carried out under (c) are expected to be financed under an upcoming IDA project. Designs under (a)
- 30 -



were completed satisfactorily, but construction supervision under (b) was marred by numerous disputes
with the contractor as well as by substantial delays due to opposition from the local population.
Performance under (c) was weak, resulting in substantial delays and making the hiring of another
consultant necessary to assist in the satisfactory completion of the study.
2.1 Rural Water Supply Schemes (US$ 1.2 m)
Under this component the civil works for twelve rural water schemes to supply water to 26 villages in the
Habir area and 40 villages in the Al Haima area were completed, including the construction of water tanks
and pump houses, laying of main pipe lines, setting up of the distribution network, and provision of pump
and generator sets for each pump house. At the time of the completion mission eight of the twelve schemes
delivered water and four schemes did not receive any water, because they were to be supplied by the East
Habir trunkline.
The total number of beneficiaries in all twelve schemes is estimated at 26,401; this compares very
favorably with 19,640 as estimated during appraisal (= 77%). Because the total quantity of water available
for the twelve schemes has been set at 8.5 V/s in an agreement with TWSLC, the higher number of
beneficiaries meant a reduction in per capita water use to 28 V/c/d compared to 37 VIc/d. TWSLC - the bulk
water supplier for the schemes - has agreed not to charge any tariff for the bulk water delivered within the
quantities agreed upon. For metered consumption, a charge of between YR 37 and 80/cum (US$
0.22-0.47/cum) has been recommended by SURDU and the social team in order to cover the salaries of
four staff in each scheme (a director, an accountant, a meter reader and a mechanic), maintenance costs and
depreciation. However, the communities have for the time being opted for lump-sum fees, partly because
some beneficiaries suggested to postpone volumetric tariffs until they would have had a chance to install
individual house connections from distribution points and meters at their own expense. Currently in the
eight operating schemes, water user associations levy charges varying from YR 150-300/household/month
(US$ 0.84 - 1.67). These are substantially lower than the recommended charges, but the recommended
charges were based on a staffing level that is probably excessive. Revenues currently cover operating costs
(mainly diesel), the cost of a mechanic and routine maintenance. The accountants seem to currently work
without pay, while the directors and meter readers are apparently not needed. If the staff in each scheme
remains limited to two (mechanic and accountant), the current charges would only need to be raised by a
small amount to fully cover operation and routine maintenance costs. The poorest in each village,
estimated at between 10 and 20% of the inhabitants, are exempted from the charge. The other community
members apparently regularly pay their bills. SURDU has completed providing necessary training to 48
members of all twelve Water User Associations (WUAs) in areas of operations and maintenance (O&M),
billing/collection and overall management of the facilities. All those trained are men. No women have been
trained. Before formal hand-over of a scheme, a workshop has been arranged and hand-over contracts
were signed.
A more detailed assessment of the rural water supply schemes is included in the project files.
2.2 Irrigation (US$ 0.75m)
This component covers a wide array of activities, including replacing existing open channels with pipes,
wadi protection and training by gabions, introduction of improved irrigation techniques and water
harvesting in ten villages (three in East Habir, four in West Habir and three in Al Haima). The original
proposition to drill two new wells and to implement demonstration schemes, including extension services as
well as monitoring equipment, was abandoned for tw6 reasons. First, drilling new wells would have
exacerbated the overpumping of the aquifer. Second, the approach of the demonstration schemes was
- 31 -



perceived as too high-tech and costly, while benefits through replication of the water-saving technologies on
other farms without govemment support remained uncertain. Revised activities included in particular the
following:
*      in six communities (two in East Habir [Hogfah/Ribat and Al Fawdaiah], one in West Habir [Al
Faqeeh], and three in Al Haima [Al Sa'adah, Al Tadamoon, Al Taweel]), 1670 holdings covering
540 ha were protected through gabions;
*      conveyance efficiency from two springs in West Habir (Al-Arasha and Hadour) was improved
benefiting 313 holdings with a total command area of 66 ha;
*      conveyance efficiency on 200 holdings covering 65 ha in East Habir (26 September and Madarat)
was improved by laying pipes from wells to the fields;
*      four small rain water tanks were constructed in Al Haima, benefiting 16 holdings covering less
than 5 ha.
Communities actively participated in the selection of the sites and the construction of the schemes.
However, no cost sharing arrangements were implemented concening the improvement of conveyance
efficiency. Under the simultaneously implemented much larger IDA-supported Land and Water
Conservation Project, farmers all over Yemen (including in other parts of the Taiz and Ibb governorates)
paid a cost sharing contribution of 50% for the same type of assistance (provision of pipes to improve
conveyance efficiency from wells). Requiring such a cost sharing contribution was apparently difficult in
the context of promises given and the agreement about the 'compensation package'.
The irrigation sub-component resulted in substantial benefits in terms of increased production (see
economic analysis).
2.3 Schools (US$ 0.03m)
Four classrooms were built in the West Habir area and handed over to the Ministry of Education (Ibb
Office). The school rooms were not immediately used. With 135 students, the school is now fully
operational.
2.4 Development of the Institutional Capacity of SURDU (US$ 0.02m)
Since March 2000, SURDU had used the services of a Social Team under the project. The terms of
reference did include water resource management by local communities, one of the project development
objectives. However, water resources management does not fall within the mandate of SURDU, but it is the
mandate of NWRA. During implementation the responsibilities of the social team were narrowed down to
arranging for an orderly hand over of the completed rural water supply schemes, including finalization of
the hand-over contracts and assisting the communities in the development and implementation of a tariff
system. The social team has provided training to designated SURDU staff in areas of socio-economic
analysis, participatory methods in community work, initiating and strengthening of self-help capacity in
communities. The social team played an important role in helping to create the basis for the sustainability
of the rural water supply schemes.
2.5 Women in Development (US$ 0.1m)
Two Women in Development (WID) centers were built and equipped in Shahrah and Rahbah villages in the
lower Al Haima area under the supervision of SURDU. The buildings were constructed using local
community labor contributions, leading to significant cost savings. The centers have been formally handed
- 32 -



over to the Al-Hayat association. The activities carried out by the association in the two centers include a
literacy program, education in mother and child health care, hygiene and first aid, and water conservation
and sanitation. The centers are fully operational now and no further support is envisaged.
3.1 Exploratory Drilling (US$ 1.Om)
Under this component, twelve exploratory boreholes have been drilled. The cumulative depth of drilling
these twelve boreholes was 5,500m, thus exceeding the 4,500m estimated at appraisal. The boreholes cover
five areas: Wadi Warazan (south-east of Taiz), Wadi Al Ghayl (south of Taiz), Bani Khawlan (south-west
of Taiz), the Hajdah area on the Wadi Rasyan (west of Taiz, also called Makbanah) and upper Wadi
Rasyan (to the north and north-west of Taiz). The exploratory wells in Wadi Al Ghayl have so far yielded
excellent results, while the resources in the Hajdah area seem promising so far pending further testing. Both
areas could potentially be tapped for the future water supply of Taiz, if satisfactory agreements can be
found with the local population. Results in the other three areas show that resources are either marginal or
naturally contaminated. The implementation of the exploratory drilling program was substantially delayed,
partly because of opposition by local communities in some areas against drilling. The execution of the
drilling program took almost four years, compared to an  admittedly overoptimistic - appraisal estimate of
only six months. For the location of the exploratory wells' see the attached Map.
3.2 Regional Water Management Plans (US$ 0.33m)
Under this sub-component, studies to prepare regional management plans in Taiz and Sa'adah (in the very
Northem of Yemen) were carried out on behalf of NWRA. The studies will consist of a socio-economic
survey; an agricultural survey; as well as a hydrochemical and water quality study in both areas. In
addition, in the Sa'adah region it includes a well inventory; a remote sensing study; and groundwater
modeling. The studies will serve as key inputs for regional management plans by NWRA. A regional
management plan for the Upper Wadi Rasyan basin near Taiz - entitled Taiz Management Plan - has
already been completed with UNDP financing. The Al Haima and Habir areas are part of the Upper Wadi
Rasyan basin. The studies in the Taiz area cover most of the areas covered by the exploratory drilling
program, except for Upper Wadi Rasyan.
4.     Project Preparation Facility (US$ 0.65m)
Under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) US$ 0.65m were used for hydro-geological studies to identify
the Habir wellfield. The activity included a drilling program and the services of an international
hydro-geologist. Drilling was carried out between 1989 and 1995 by a local contractor hired and funded by
NWSA, using equipment purchased under the PPF. The drilling of exploratory wells faced strong
opposition by local communities, thus delaying the completion of the drilling program. The study by the
hydro-geological consultant was apparently technically sound, but it was misinterpreted by the preparation
team, which did not adequately consider the various caveats included in the study relating to the lack of
information and the complexity of the aquifer.
Changes in Sub-Components from Appraisal to Closure
The following activities were undertaken outside the project under financing by GOY or by donors
(numbers refer to the original sub-components as shown above):
six deep wells in Habir were drilled with GOY financing (1.1);
the three aquifer monitoring stations were financed by UNDP (1.2);
- 33 -:



*      the construction of a trunikdine from the West Habir wells under GOY financing
(part of 1.3);
*      an analysis of options for a private sector contract was financed by GTZ (part of 1.6); and
*      the regional water management study in Wadi Masila in Hadramout was carried out with
UNDP/Dutch financing (3.3).
The following activities were substantially modified:
*      Sub-components 1.3 and 1.4 were merged into a single component under the title "Development of
the Habir well field and increasing water supply to Taiz".
*      The rehabilitation of pumps and pipelines associated with the Hogalla Hoban well field in the city
of Taiz as well as the procurement of various equipment to strengthen the utility were included in
t&is new sub-component.
*      Rural water supply in Habir (1.5) was included under rural water supply in Al Haima (2.1) under
the responsibility of SURDU.
*      The studies under the NWSA component (1.6) were broadened to include the preparation of tender
documents, bid evaluation, contract negotiation and construction supervision for the works carried
out under the TWSLC component - crucial tasks which had either been overlooked during project
preparation, or it must have been assumed that TWSLC could easily carry them out without
assistance.
The feasibility studies for a possible recharge dike in Wadi Al Jaashin and for the Wadi Warazan
dam (2.4) were completely cancelled. Wadi Warazan is located South-East of Taiz, outside the
project area. Stored water from the reservoir behind the proposed dam could have been used as a
future source of water supply for the city of Taiz. It would have affected water supply further
downstream, possibly up to Aden, since Wadi Warazan is a tributary to Wadi Tuban draining
towards Aden. The two studies were replaced by small works to improve spate and groundwater
irrigation, in particular through the construction of gabions, the development of springs as well as
water harvesting structures.
Under the NWRA component, sub-components 3.1 and 3.2 were merged, and the study in
Hadramout (3.3) was replaced by two regional water management studies in Taiz and in Sa'adah.
The following sub-component was cancelled:
construction of two irrigation wells (2.2) was cancelled (GOY funded the drilling of four
agricultural wells in Habir in 1996, but they were dry).
A small sub-component was added to strengthen SURDU's capacity.
-34-



Additional Annex 9. Assessment of Rural Water Supply Schemes
Introduction
This assessment is based on the completion report provided by the implementing agency SURDU - the
Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit -, extensive discussions with members of the SURDU rural
water supply team in November 2001 in Taiz and in March 2002 in Sana'a, and a brief field visit to two
schemes (Hamair in Al Haima and xxx in Habir) in November 2001. The accuracy and extent of the
information provided below is necessarily limited by the short duration of the field visit and the limited
number of schemes visited. It is recommended that a more detailed assessment should be undertaken at a
later stage, along with some limited assistance to SURDU and water user associations to ensure
sustainability of the schemes. This assistance could be provided as part of the currently launched Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Project.
Objective
The SAR foresaw the "provision of potable water and technical assistance to local cooperatives (on O&M
management), to service 30 villages in Habir and Al Haima (amount based on a daily per capita demand of
50 liters), to be serviced from the Habir transmission pipeline, and consisting of service pumping stations,
storage tanks and distribution piping with public taps strategically located in the villages."
During implementation this objective was slightly adjusted. Actually 66 villages and 35 hamlets instead of
30 villages were connected, covering 26,401 people instead of 14,940 estimated at appraisal (+ 77%). The
beneficiaries were served by twelve schemes, each relying on one small pipeline (3") and pump to transfer
water from wells that would also feed water into a much larger pipeline that serves the city of Taiz. Since
the total amount of water that was agreed to be made available to rural communities remained fixed at 8.5
Ils, the actual amount of water available was reduced to an average of 28 I/c/d as a result of the decision by
some water user association together with SURDU to extend services to a larger group of beneficiaries.
Status
At the time of writing this report in March 2002 eight of the twelve schemes provided water (Groups I and
2). Four schemes (Group 3) did not provide water, because they were located on a pipeline that has been
barely completed and for which test pumping had not been undertaken yet. It was expected that the pipeline
would soon carry water, so that all twelve schemes could provide services.
Group    Habir area      Al-Haima area
I       Al Zaal         Al Khoms
Al Hamair
Wadi Oriq
Shaqqab
Shahara
2        Al Kosserai
Al Markabah
Repat Ramadah    Al Maklad
Al Fodaiah
Hadadah
- 35 -



Institutional Arrangements and User Participation
A social team, consisting of a Yemeni social scientist and his collaborators, was contracted to assist
SURDU in helping communities to set up sustainable institutional arrangements for water supply, including
the design of a tariff system. Following the advice of the social team and SURDU, in each of the six
schemes in Group 1 a three-tiered institutional structure was established in September 1999, consisting of:
an operations and maintenance group; a control committee; and a water user association. The water user
committees have 424 members. They include at least one representative from each of the 101 villages and
hamlets covered by the schemes. Each operations and maintenance group has four members: a director, a
mechanic, an accountant and a meter reader. The same institutional structure was established in the six
schemes in Groups 2 and 3, but only in March 2001. All 48 members of the O&M groups in the twelve
schemes have been appointed by their respective water user associations and have received training by
SURDU in its training center in Taiz. The O&M groups are supervised by control committees with 143
members in total. The control committees are elected by the water user associations (424 members in total),
which in turn have been elected by the members of their respective communities (4229 households).
Furthermore, each water user association has a Board with a total of 60 members. The control committees
also organized and supervised the laying of pipes in cooperation with SURDU. The water user committees
are said to meet about twice a year to discuss current issues. While the responsibilities of the operations
and maintenance group and of the control committee are clearly defined, the responsibilities of the board
and of the water user association are less clear. It seems that the overall institutional setup is unnecessarily
complicated.
In October 2000, a workshop was held in Taiz by SURDU and the social team for all the members of water
user committees in Group 1 (234 people), explaining the responsibilities of the communities during
operation of the schemes in preparation for their handover. One full day was reserved for each water user
committee. The workshop participants made recommendations for the improvement of the schemes, such as
a request for maintenance tools and for fitting the taps with locks. After they had a chance to go back to
their respective communities, representatives of water user associations for the six schemes came back to
Taiz in January 2001 for handover ceremonies, during which they signed handover contracts.
A similar workshop and handover ceremony is envisaged for the two schemes in Group 2 in April 2002,
followed by the two schemes in Group 3, as soon as water will become available.
Design of Works
The schemes provide for water distribution through public distribution points. In each village or hamlet one
or two distribution points were installed (136 distribution points for 101 villages and hamlets). A
distribution point consists of between one and twelve metered taps (600 metered taps in total). Each tap in
turn serves a group of households, usually belonging to the same family (4229 households and 26,401
beneficiaries in total).
Households or household groups can decide to lay pipes to each house or to a location closer to their house.
They can also install meters at their own expense. The distance from the distribution point to a house is
said to be typically less than 100 meters. If a household would like to make a connection, the water user
committee requires that proper sanitation arrangements are made prior to laying the pipe. SURDU
recommended to install soak pits for each group of households. In addition, if connection serve individual
houses, each house must have a meter that has to be purchased and installed by the beneficiaries. These
- 36 -



arrangements were discussed and agreed with the water user association and their representatives. It seems
that so far few households have made individual connections.
Execution of Works
Between May 1998 and February 1999 the pumps and pipes for all twelve schemes were delivered. Most of
the works (construction of pump houses and reservoirs, laying of pipes) were executed during 1999 and
early 2000. The communities participated in laying the pipes and were paid for their contribution. Unpaid
labor contribution was not feasible, because the works were part of a 'compensation package' agreed
between the local communities and the government in 1996 in exchange for the permission to transfer water
from the area to the city of Taiz. In the six schemes in Group 1, the works were organized by the elected
control committees of the local water user associatons (see above). It is not entirely clear how they were
organized in the six remaining schemes, since the water user associations were established only after the
works were completed. The pump houses and reservoirs were built by small local contractors selected
through local shopping and who used local labor.
Water deliveries for four schemes in Al Haima (Al Hamair, Wadi Oriq, Shahra, Al Khoms) began in May
2000, followed by two more schemes (Al Zaal and Shaqab) in September 2000 (Group 1). Water deliveries
for the two schemes in Group 2 (Al Kosseira and Al Markabah) began only in March 2002. The schemes
in Group 3 are expected to receive water as soon as pumping through the East Habir pipeline begins.
Operation
The six operating schemes receive water from individual wells operated by TWSLC. These wells also
supply water to Taiz through the Habir-Taiz pipeline. One scheme (Al Hamair) is supplied directly from a
reservoir on the pipeline. The quantity available for each scheme is capped through an agreement with
TWSLC and is measured by a bulk meter installed under the project. The schemes operate on an
intermittent basis in such a way that the total amount agreed with TWSLC is not exceeded. The schemes
are operated for between one hour and twenty minutes and four hours every day in two shifts, one in the
morning and one in the afternoon.
Households are currently billed a lump sum per month that varies between 150 and 300 YR/month. This
sum is sufficient to pay the diesel for the operation of the pump, the salary of a mechanic, and to
accumulate reserves for maintenance. However, in most schemes the director, the meter reader and the
accountant of the O&M committees are not paid. Their salaries could be covered from the existing
revenues, but in that case no funds would be available for maintenance. Fees are determined by each water
user committee in such a way that the poorest in the community (10-20%) are exempted from paying
without jeopardizing the financial viability of the project.
The social team and SURDU had advised the communities to charge the full costs of the salary for all four
members of the O&M committees, estimated maintenance costs and depreciation. It calculated these costs
for the six schemes in group 1, resulting in recommended volumetric charges of between YR 37 and 80 /
cubic meter (US$ 0.22-0.47/cum). These charges would result in revenues that would be two to three times
higher than current revenues.
The communities do envisage to introduce volumetric charges to improve the equity between households
with varying water use. However, this measure has been postponed until households that wish to install
house connections and individual meters on their own will have had a chance to do so. If the recommended
tariff level will be introduced or not remains to be seen and is up to the water user committees to decide.
- 37 -



Performance Indicators
The following table shows the performance indicators of the schemes as defined in the SAR compared to
actual achievements:
SAR                         Actual
Input Indicators           T_l_I
Length of Pipes             65,000                       110,859
Number of Service Pumping    15                          13
Stations
Number of water tanks       20                           13
Output Indicators           __                 _
Number of village water     30                           66
schemes
Number of people serviced    14,940                      26,401 (17,766)
Outcome Indicator
Number of households satisfied  2,450                    4,056 (2,768)
Impact Indicator
Number of women hours saved  876,000                     1,678,662 (n.a)
per year
Note: Figures in brackets refer to the eight schemes that have water. The other four schemes are completed,
but depend on water supply on the East Habir pipeline, which is completed but does not carry water
because of disputes with individual families about land compensation in the East Habir area.
Economic Analysis
SURDU has undertaken a survey using questionnaires and covering 25 households from the 12 schemes.
Five representative groups were established, each with a different distance from the water source used
before the project to the house. Then, five households from each group were chosen to fill out the
questionnaire. Based on the information in the questionnaire, the exact time spent to collect water was
determined and who in the family collected water. The results showed that 56 % of the water was fetched
by children (mostly girls), 42% by women and 2% by men. It is estimated that through the six operation
schemes about 2,500 women and girls will use an average of 45 minutes a day to fetch water instead of
between 2 and a half and four hours before the project. During the dry season, this time is usually much
higher, and during the rainy season lower. The opportunity cost of labor was estimated at YR 20/hour for
adults and YR 10/hour per child. The opportunity cost of labor per adult was derived from the going daily
wage rate of YR 400, divided by eight hours and multiplied with a shadow wage rate coefficient of 40%.
The opportunity cost of children's time was set at half this level. Given that the time children, and in
particular girls, spend to fetch water may prevent them from attending school, this estimate is very
conservative. The opportunity cost of the time saved through the project was used to assess the project's
benefits. The operation and maintenance costs were calculated based on the estimated appropriate O&M
costs for the scheme (including salaries for all four members of O&M committees). Concerning investment
costs, the cost of labor used during construction will be shadow-priced and taxes will be excluded from the
costs. The results from the economic analysis remain to be finalized. A preliminary calculation shows that
the rate of return for the six schemes-in Group 1 is in the range of 20%.
- 38 -



m  tm;e(raX   P   sr_   sr   1_-/oo5   44!lg0   ~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC  OF YEMEN  REPUBLIC  OF YEMEN,             .
\  *simwsximl ,----  \ o, :Qoo\-j c  looTA'IZ WATER SUPPLY  TA'IZ WATER SUPPLY |V,,<
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I           Explor-1 atory Boreholes  12 R.- WatrSupplySchemes ',- h  2____,_-
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _      -.W iA. Epl.,."  N-i W_t Tr )-135>.4,o5 woeish3el s- P, b  Ad Arashac .
.....  -  d  * -'1 , . \ | ' vr ~~~~~~~~jilah  a.h.          Ei fi.q Wd           '                  uhmnAL arHdruhSC0TcrT1\(  r  eee
'       '      '         -- -- ,- ,,,t,,/-9- -f'
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,                        We,   Tr--i,,- Piph
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mi -'-         -       (Bg 0 . . *- x1 h. 'i . d
< f-~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        ~~~~~~~ $0k;T  R.. W.X Sapl kh.  t .W.bu.$. sp 
MAY 200,






r1MIlQAG1IG
Report No.:        24441
I   Type:     ICR



