Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2913
                        Development Credit Agreement
                      (Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project)
                                    between
                            THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                      and
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated September 6, 1996
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2913
                         DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 6, 1996, between THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS (B) the Association has received a letter, dated June 19,
1996, from the Borrower describing a program (the "Program") of
objectives, policies and actions designed to address the Borrower's
growing water shortage crisis and to increase the role of the private
sector in operation and management of utilities active in the sector;
      WHEREAS (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                        General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Page  2
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
            Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "NWRA" means the National Water Resources Authority, a semi-
autonomous governmental authority established and operating under
Presidential Decree No. 154 of October, 1995;
      (b)   "NWSA" means the National Water and Sanitation Authority, a
semi-autonomous governmental authority established and operating under
the Borrower's Law No. 13 of 1973, as amended, and any successor thereto;
      (c)   "SURDU" means the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit,
established under Ministerial Decree No. 26 of 1975, of the Borrower's
Minister of Agriculture, to assume the responsibility for the imple-
mentation of rural development projects in the Project area;
      (d)   "Project Preparation Facility" means the project preparation
facility granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated June 14, 1988 and May 12, 1989 between the
Borrower and the Association; and
      (e)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven
million and one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in U.S. Dollars special deposit accounts in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the
Association the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Facility withdrawn and outstanding as of such date
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
Page  3
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Facility shall thereupon be
cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing January 1,
2007 and ending July 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on July 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Asso-
ciation may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
Page  4
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                            Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end:
            (i)    shall carry out Part B of the Project through SURDU
                   with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
                   with appropriate engineering, environmental, agri-
                   cultural, and administrative practices, and shall
                   provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                   services and other resources required for such Part
                   of the Project; and
            (ii)   shall cause NWSA to carry out Parts A (1) through A
                   (4) of the Project and shall cause NWRA to carry out
                   Part A (5) of the Project with due diligence and
                   efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
                   engineering, environmental and administrative
                   practices, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
                   including the provision of funds, facilities, services
                   and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
                   enable NWSA and NWRA to carry out the Project, and
                   shall not take or permit to be taken any action
                   which would prevent or interfere with the carrying
                   out of the Project by NWSA and NWRA.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A (1) through A (4)
of the Project shall be carried out by NWSA and in respect of Part A
(5) of the Project shall be carried out by NWRA.
      Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, and
shall cause NWSA and NWRA to:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
Page  5
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including
the respective operations and financial condition of NWSA and NWRA.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                   graph (a) of this Section, and NWSA and NWRA's
                   financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
                   income and expenses and related statements) and the
                   records and accounts pertaining to the Special
                   Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                   with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than four (4) months after the
                   end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                   of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested, and certified copies of the respective
                   financial statements of NWSA and NWRA for such year
                   as so audited; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                   thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                   with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                   which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
                   or payment out of the Special Accounts was made, all
                   records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                   the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                   Section and that the report of such audit contains
                   a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                                Other Covenants
      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause NWSA and NWRA:
      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice;
      (b)   to carry on their respective operations and conduct their
respective affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and environmental practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
Page  6
adequate numbers; and
      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain their plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 6.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                               ARTICLE VII
                               Termination
      Section 7.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VIII
              Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planing and Development
            P.O. Box 175
            Sana'a
            Republic of Yemen
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   CENPLAN                 2266 CENPLAN YE
                   Sana'a
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI) or
                   Washington, D.C.         64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                         By /s/ Mohsin Alaini
                                               Authorized Representative
Page  7
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Inder Sud
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Middle East and North Africa
                               SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                                    Credit                % of
                                   Allocated          Expenditures
                                (Expressed in             to be
      Category                 SDR Equivalent)          Financed
(1)  (a)  Civil Works Under         700,000           90%
          Parts A (1) and A (3)
          of the Project
(1)  (b)  Civil Works Under         500,000           90%
          Part A (5) of the
          Project
(1)  (c)  Civil Works Under         300,000           90%
          Part B of the
          Project
(2)  (a)  Goods and Equipment     1,000,000           100% of foreign
          Under Parts A (1) and                       expenditures,
          A (3) of the Project                        100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost) and 95%
                                                      of local
                                                      expenditures for
                                                      other items
                                                      procured locally
(2)  (b)  Goods and Equipment       700,000           100% of foreign
          Under Part B (2)                            expenditures,
          of the Project                              100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost) and 95%
                                                      of local
                                                      expenditures for
                                                      other items
                                                      procured locally
(3)  (a)  Consultants             1,300,000           100% of foreign
          Services, Training,                         expenditures and
          Workshops and                               95% of local
          Seminars Under                              expenditures
          Parts A (2) and
          A (4) of the Project
(3)  (b)  Consultants             1,000,000           100% of foreign
          Services and Training                       expenditures and
          Under Part A (5)                            95% of local
          of the Project                              expenditures
Page  8
(3)  (c)  Consultants               300,000           100% of foreign
          Services under                              expenditures and
          Part B of the                               95% of local
          Project                                     expenditures
(4)  (a)  Compensation for           50,000           95% of local
          NWSA Project                                expenditures
          Management Unit
(4)  (b)  Compensation for           50,000           95% of local
          NWRA Project                                expenditures
          Management Unit
(4)  (c)  Compensation for           50,000           95% of local
          SURDU Staff  under                          expenditures
          Part B of the Project
(5)   Refunding of                  500,000           Amounts due
      Project                                         pursuant to
      Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
      Facility                                        of this Agreement
      Unallocated                   650,000
                                  _________
      TOTAL                       7,100,000
                                  =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; except that withdrawals, in aggregate amounts:
(i) not exceeding the equivalent of $150,000 for expenditures under each
of Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a); and (ii) not exceeding the equivalent
of $50,000 for expenditures under Category (3) (b), may be made on
account of payments made before that date but after April 1, 1996.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure: (a) for expenditures
for goods and works under contracts costing less than $75,000 equivalent;
(b) for expenditures for services under contracts for the employment of
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) for expen-
ditures for services under contracts for the employment of individuals
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (d) for expenditures for
compensation of NWSA, NWRA and SURDU staff, under such terms and condi-
tions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower: (a) to
mitigate the water shortage crisis in the Taiz region; (b) to explore
new water sources for long term water supply in the Taiz region; (c) to
develop an institutional framework for decentralized water resources
management on a pilot basis; (d) to promote private sector participation
in the management of water and waste water utility services; and (e) to
improve rural infrastructure as compensation for water extraction.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  9
Part A:     Water Supply
1.    Development of the Habir well field, construction of connections
to the Al Haima transmission pipeline supplying Taiz, provision of a
well for Al Qaidah town, and provision of aquifer performance monitoring
stations.
2.    Preparation of a private sector utility management contract for
the NWSA Taiz Branch.
3.    Construction of rural water supply schemes in the Habir area.
4.    Carrying out of studies and preparing engineering designs and
plans for the rehabilitation and upgrading of the water and waste
water system in Taiz and Al Qaidah.
5.    Exploration and testing of ground water sources in the Taiz
region and development of regional water management plans for the
Hadramawt area.
Part B:     Rural Infrastructure
1.    Carrying out of studies to determine the feasibility for small
earth dams to enhance ground water recharge and provide for potable
and irrigation water supply.
2.    Construction of irrigation wells and provision of pumping equip-
ment for irrigation projects sponsored by cooperatives in the project
area.
3.    Construction of classrooms for selected schools in the Habir area.
4.    Carrying out of a feasibility study for development of Wadi
Warazan as a water resource for urban and rural development.
5.    Construction of rural water supply schemes and carrying out women
in development activities in the Al Haima area.
                                   * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Association in January 1995 and revised in
January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 or more each.
Page  10
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
            contractors
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Limited International Bidding
      Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,200,000 equivalent, and goods,
which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number
of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of
the Guidelines.
2.    National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost less than $750,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
4.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
Page  11
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                         Implementation Program
1.    (a)   Within one month after the effectiveness of this Agreement,
for the purpose of ensuring proper coordination in the carrying out of
the Project and sustainability of rural infrastructure investments, the
Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a Steering Committee
consisting of representatives from the Governor of Ibb, the Governor of
Taiz, NWSA, NWRA, SURDU, and up to six (6) elected representatives from
the Habir area.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause NWSA to maintain the Project
Management Unit in Taiz, with staffing, terms of reference and
qualifications satisfactory to the Association.
      (c)   The Borrower shall cause NWRA to maintain the Project
Management Unit, with staffing, terms of reference and qualifications
satisfactory to the Association.
      (d)   Within one month after effectiveness of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause SURDU to appoint a Project Manager with terms of
reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   by January 31, 1997, prepare a proposal for management of'
public water and wastewater utilities in Taiz by private sector firms;
and
      (b)   by March 31, 1997, issue public bidding documents requesting
proposals from private sector firms to manage public water and waste-
water utilities in Taiz.
3.    By December 31, 1997, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its review and comments, a proposed program for operation and main-
tenance of rural infrastructure by local cooperatives. Thereafter, taking
the Association's comments thereon into account, the Borrower shall carry
out said program to ensure the operation and maintenance of rural
infrastructure by local cooperatives.
4.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 1997,
Page  12
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
      (c)   review with the Association, by April 30, 1997, or such later
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in sub-
paragraph (b) above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the
said report and the Association's views on the matter.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means with respect to the
components of Part A of the Project to be carried out by NWSA, Categories
(1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a) and (4)(a); with respect to the components of Part
A of the Project to be carried out by NWRA, Categories (1)(b), (3)(b),
and (4)(b); and with respect to Part B of the Project to be carried out
by SURDU, Categories (1)(c), (2)(b), (3)(c) and (4)(c), all as set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means with respect to the
special account to be established for NWSA, an amount equivalent to
$400,000; with respect to the special account to be established for NWRA,
an amount equivalent to $300,000; and with respect to the special account
to be established for SURDU, an amount equivalent to $300,000, to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account, and deposited in such Special Account
to be established pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower
                 shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                 into the Special Accounts at such intervals as the
                 Association shall specify.
           (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                 and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                 this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                 which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                 such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                 Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
                 into the Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower
                 shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
Page  13
                 said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                 out of the Special Accounts for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Accounts:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
Page  14
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
