Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15728-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SUMATRA
JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
August 16, 1996
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 1996)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00      = Rp2,331
Rp I million = US$429
Academic Year
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPENAS             National Development Planning Board
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CPCU                 Central Program Coordination Unit, Jakarta
D-II                 Two-Year Post-Secondary Diploma Course
D-III                Three-Year Post-Secondary Diploma Course
DIKMENUM             MOEC Secondary Education Directorate
DIP                  Development Budget
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GOI                  Government of Indonesia
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
JSE                  Junior Secondary Education
KAKANDEP             Head of District Office of MGMP
MIS                  Management Information System
MGMP                 Subject Teacher Forum
MOEC                 Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MORA                 Ministry of Religious Affairs
MT                   Muslim School (Madrasah Tsanawiyah)
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NEM                  National Examination
NIC                  Newly Industrialized Country
NTT                  Nusa Tenggara Timur (East Nusa Tenggara)
PIP                  Project Implementation Plan
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PKG                  Peer Inservice Teacher Training Programs
REPELITA             Five-Year Development Plan
SD/MI                Primary School (public and private)
SLTP/SMP             Junior Secondary School
SOE                  Statements of Expenditures
SUSENAS              National Social Survey



i
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                      Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agency:           Directorate General of Primary and Secondary Education
Ministry of Education and Culture
Beneficiaries:                 School Children and out-of-school youth in the Provinces of DI
Aceh, West Sumatra, Jambi, South Sumatra, and Lampung, with
emphasis on girls and local communities.
Poverty Category:              Program of Targeted Interventions: the project would target student
scholarships, contract teachers, new and alternative schools, and
over 60 percent of quality interventions to rural, mainly poor, areas
and girls.
Amount:                        US$98.0 million equivalent
Terms:                         Repayable in 20 years including five years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate for currency pool loans.
Commitment Fee:                0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                See Table 4.3
Economic Rate of Return:       The estimated rate of return ranges from 15% to 19% percent by
province. High retums were found for both quality and access
components. Retums on quality enhancements were generally
higher than for expansion of access.
Memorandum of the President: No. P-6932-IND
Project Identification Number:  ID-PE-41894
Map:                           IBRD No. 28131






ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...........................i
1.  JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION ISSUES IN FIVE SUMATRA
PROVINCES: DI ACEH, WEST SUMATRA, JAMBI, SOUTH SUMATRA,
AND LAMPUNG ......................I
A.. Background. 
B. Sector Issues and National Initiatives                    .3
C. Junior Secondary Education in the Sumatra Provinces               .5
2. GOVERNMENT AND BANK STRATEGY AND LESSONS LEARNED .. 12
A. Government Strategy                               .12
B. Lessons Learned .12
C. Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement .14
3. THE PROJECT                                       ..16
A. Project Objectives .16
B. Performance Indicators and Critical Success Factors .16
C. Project Description                               .16
D. Project Economic Analysis .26
E. Project Management and Supervision .28
4.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ..32
A. Project Costs .32
B. Financing .37
C. Procurement .37
D. Disbursements .42
E. Accounts, Audits and Reports .43
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..44
A. Benefits .44
B. Risks .45
C. Sustainability .47
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                         .................................... 48
A. Agreements ....................................                                 48
B. Recommendation ....................................                             49
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission (June-July 1996) to Indonesia consisting of
Brigitte Duces (Senior Operations Officer, Task Manager), Mieko Masuda (Operations Analyst), Stavros
Syrimis (Education Specialist), Dean Nielsen (Education Specialist) and Marsoedi Soedjak (Operations
Officer). Shafiq Dhanani (Economist), and Ibrahim Musa, supported from PHRD funds, also participated
and assisted the mission team. The report also drew on provincial proposals, contributions from the central
and provincial offices of the Ministry of Education and Culture, and inputs from PHRD-funded consultants
(see Annex 19). Valuable comments were provided by Antonio Pereira and Donald Hamilton (EA3PH).
Cynthia Cristobal and Mercedes Bautista assisted in the production of the report. Peer reviewers were Nisha
Agrawal (EA3CO), Bruno Laporte (HDD), Ruth Kagia (EAIHR), and Audrey Aarons (SAIPH). Marianne
Haug, Director, EA3DR and Samuel Lieberman, Acting Chief, EA3PH, have endorsed the report.



Tables In Texts
Page
1.1    Basic Data on Project Provinces ........................................................6
1.2    Primary and Junior Secondary Education Profiles in Five Sumatra Provinces ...............7
3.1    World Bank Involvement Relative to Total Junior Secondary Expansion .................... 27
4.1a Summary of Project Costs by Component and Implementing Agency .33
4.1 b Summary of Project Costs by Component .34
4.2a Sum. of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure and by Implementing Agency .35
4.2b Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure .36
4.3    Financing Plan .....................................................                                                37
4.4    Procurement Arrangements .....................................................                                      41
5.1    Number of Beneficiaries of Project Investments .....................................................                  44
Annexes
I .    Economic Analysis of the Junior Secondary Education Program  and Project .............. 50
2.      Basic Education Data .....................................................                                         67
3.      Bank Group-Financed Education and Training Projects ................................................ 68
4.      Options for Increasing Access .....................................................                                69
5.      Enrollment Targets and Projections .....................................................                           79
6.      Teacher Training Support .....................................................                                     80
7.      Information Management and Utilization Component ................................................... 84
8.      Project Management Organization Structure .....................................................                    88
9.      Project Monitoring and Evaluation .....................................................                            94
10.   Project Performance Indicators .....................................................                                 96
11.    Supervision Plan .....................................................                                              97
12.   Project Activities and Implementation Plan .....................................................                     98
13.   Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs ................................................... 104
14. Technical Assistance Summary .136
15.   Procurement Plan .......................................................                                           137
16.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .......................................................                        142
17.   Sample Reporting Formats of Project Accounts Statements ........................................ 143
18.   Selected  Documents Available in the Project Files and Rdevant Bibliography ........ 146
19.   Names of People Involved in Project Preparation ....................................................... 148
IBRD MAP No. 28131



Staff Appraisal Report                             I
1. JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION ISSUES IN FIVE
SUMATRA PROVINCES: DI ACEH, WEST SUMATRA,
JAMBI, SOUTH SUMATRA, AND LAMPUNG
A. BACKGROUND
1.1   Over the last 25 years, the Government of Indonesia has demonstrated a strong
commitment to education and as a result, the country has made impressive gains.  The
Government led a substantial school building program and enrollment drive in the 1970s (SD
INPRES) sharply increasing primary school enrollment. The gross enrollment rate stood at 75
percent in the early 1970s but had increased to about 90 percent by the end of that decade. Since
the mid-1980s, gross enrollment rates have exceeded 100 percent. The effort is not complete
because of quality concerns and the need to increase retention rates, but the achievements at the
primary level have been substantial in this diverse and far-flung archipelago.
1.2   The Government of Indonesia (GOI) is looking to future needs, and has reiterated its
commitment to a proactive program in the future with expansion of junior secondary education
as a priority. While maintaining its commitment to primary education, the Government is aiming
for universal basic education (years 1-9) coverage, to meet the human resource requirements for
transforming the economy from one based on natural resources to one based more on industry
and technology.
1.3   The decision to expand junior secondary education participation as rapidly as feasible is
justified for several reasons. First, expansion appears to be a precondition for the rapid growth of
the Indonesian economy in the medium term. Recent research on the development of East Asian
economies indicates that with the achievement of near universal primary education, secondary
(junior and senior) education has had a strong impact on economic growth. Secondary education
plays the role of providing educated entrants to the labor force, enhancing the trainability of
workers, and providing qualified inputs into higher levels of education.
1.4   In this regard, the Indonesian economy and labor market is in the midst of a structural
transformation. Since 1990, there has been a marked slow-down in employment creation in
agriculture and an acceleration in the rate of growth of job creation in manufacturing,
construction, transport and communication. After a period of wage stagnation in the 1980s, there
are strong indications of rising real wage rates throughout the country and an absolute decline in
agricultural employment. If sustained nationally for a decade or so, these trends imply the
absorption of remaining pockets of surplus labor, and as happened in other NICs, the
transformation from an agrarian economy to one relying on the education and productivity of its
workers. Social rates of return to education computed for 1986-92 indicate that returns to junior
secondary education are the highest among the education subsectors.
1.5   The second justification for significant Government attention to junior secondary
education is that the number of school places is still limited relative to demand, despite



2                     Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
substantial outlays by parents and a significant private sector response. This inadequacy is
evident from continued strong demand for generally more costly and often lower quality private
education, large numbers of unsuccessful applicants to schools, the prevalence of double shifts
and large classes in schools, and the use of libraries and laboratories for classroom teaching.
1.6    A third rationale for Government intervention is to assist in removing barriers of cost and
isolation that keep many of the rural poor out of school. In rural Sumatra, for example, total
expenditure per junior secondary student is equivalent to approximately 86 percent of per capita
expenditure in households of the lowest quintile. Junior secondary education is therefore beyond
the reach of many of the poor and near poor. The opportunity costs of keeping children in
school exacerbate the problem. Expansion of junior secondary education, especially in remote
rural and fast growing areas with low enrollment rates will be of direct benefit to the poor,
especially girls who are sometimes disadvantaged in these areas.
1.7    A fourth rationale relates to likely externalities associated with investments in secondary
education. Research from other countries has pointed to externalities such as reduced fertility
and child mortality and improved nutritional status that correlate with female secondary
education. For Indonesia, survey results indicate that a mother's education is an important
determinant of prenatal care utilization: more than 90 percent of women with junior secondary
education use prenatal care, in contrast to only 75 percent of women with some primary
education. Furthermore, analysis of nutritional status in Indonesia finds a strong effect of
maternal education on children's nutritional status: for women with between zero and five years
of education, an additional year of education has no impact on the child's nutritional status,
while, among women with six to twelve years of education (or more), an additional year of
education improves nutritional status significantly.
1.8    The role of the Government would therefore be to (a) help expand the number of school
places through a combination of direct investment and measures to stimulate further private
sector/community participation in the provision of school places; (b) improve the teaching -
learning quality of the existing and new junior secondary schools; and (c) ensure that the poor
are given increased opportunity to participate in the expansion process.
Sector Financing Plan
1.9    Achieving universal nine-year basic education will require significant additional public
resources to be directed to the education sector overall and to basic education in particular.
Estimates of the total costs of the junior secondary expansion program come to approximately
$7.6 billion to be implemented over a 15-year period. The cost estimates assume that the private
sector will maintain its share of total enrollment of about 40 percent. Additional financing of an
average $120 million during the next ten years of expansion (assuming 6 percent p.a. growth of
the budget) would be required, implying that the budgetary allocation to junior secondary
education would need to increase from the current 13 percent of the education budget to
approximately 16 percent in the next few years. Overall, Indonesia would need to increase its
allocation to education as a proportion of GDP by approximately 0.2 percent (this does not take
into account, however, increases in other education subsectors, which may equally be required).



StaffAppraisal Report                               3
1.10 Government has demonstrated its commitment to expansion of junior secondary
education through increases in its education investments. In its most recent budget allocations
(1996/97) the education sector budget was increased by 20 percent, one of the highest increases
amongst all sectors. The budget for junior secondary education saw a 24 percent rise over last
year's budget allocation. GOI is also requesting help from donors, including the World Bank, to
close the financing gap.
Structure of the Education System
1.11   The Indonesian education system consists of a six-year primary school cycle, junior and
senior secondary school cycles of three years each, and a postsecondary system ranging from one
to six years. Primary education is largely the domain of Government: nearly five out of six
pupils are enrolled in public schools. Private schooling plays a much greater role in secondary
education. Private schools account for 41 percent of enrollment in junior secondary education
and 54 percent in senior secondary. Junior secondary education is provided through 8,712 public
(46 percent) and 10,279 private (54 percent) general junior secondary schools (SMP). The
Ministry of Religious Affairs (MORA) administers the 582 public and 7,547 private madrasah
tsanawiyah muslim schools (MTs) at the junior secondary level. At the senior secondary level,
3,241 public and 10,380 private schools enroll a total of 4.2 million students, for a gross
enrollment rate of 34 percent.
1.12   When a private junior secondary school is established, it is "registered" and evaluated
after graduating its first students. Private schools can advance in accreditation from"registered"
to "recognized" and finally to the status of "equivalent" to public schools. Most equivalent
schools are owned and operated by religious organizations. Registered and recognized schools
are in general owned and operated by teachers' associations and other nonprofit organizations
(yayasans), although some are owned by religious organizations or small communities. Most
registered schools are owned and operated by small rural communities that do not have a public
school nearby. Almost invariably, schools established by communities aspire to complete
Government takeover, while private yayasans often prefer partial Government support so they
can maintain control. Schools established by teachers' associations often use public school
facilities after hours and employ public school teachers as instructors.
B.    SECTOR ISSUES AND NATIONAL INITIATIVES
1.13   Despite high gross enrollment rates, about 22 percent of primary school pupils, especially
in the more difficult remote areas, do not complete the full six years of education. Universal
nine-year education, however, depends on improving the efficiency of the primary system and
producing an expanded pool of candidates for junior secondary school. The Government has
started addressing this issue through a series of initiatives, including the Primary Education
Quality Improvement Project (Ln. 3448-lND) which is piloting measures for improving
education quality.
1.14  In spite of the constraints to access and quality at the junior secondary level, Indonesia
has made great strides in gender equality in both primary and junior secondary education. Only
slightly fewer girls than boys are enrolled in school at the national level. Girls also have lower



4                     Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
drop-out and repeater rates than boys and are often higher achievers. However, rural conditions
similar to those which present obstacles to the development of junior secondary education also
adversely affect the participation of girls. When schools are located a long way from homes,
parents are less willing to let their daughters commute long distances or to undertake the costly
expenditures of relocation to urban areas.
1.15  In addition to access and quality, all provinces face new and existing management
challenges as a result of the deconcentration of tasks from the center to the provinces, a process
this project will support. For historical and political reasons, public administration in Indonesia
has been highly centralized and decision making is tightly controlled by central Government in
Jakarta. The center has traditionally set objectives for education expansion and development,
with few inputs from the provinces. However, the differences of local conditions in each province
and district, accentuated by the great distances of the outer islands from the administrative center,
make it increasingly difficult for central administration to devise and implement satisfactory
solutions to local problems. Although Jakarta will retain a significant role in providing policy
guidelines and promoting regional equity and overall economic development, the Government has
decided gradually to devolve authority to the provinces and districts. This devolution will result in
a deconcentration of the functions of the MOEC to provincial (Kanwil) and district
(Kandep/Kanin) education offices.
Initiatives Related to Access
1.16   GOI is aware of these problems and a number of initiatives have been put in place to
address them. To improve access, the policy of establishing a minimum size of nine classrooms
for Government schools, which has prevented opening schools in small communities, is being
changed to make it easier for schools with fewer classrooms to be built.
1.17   Private schools supported by local communities, private educational foundations and
religious groups account for about 40 percent of total enrollment at the junior secondary level.
GO! supports these schools through a variety of measures, including provision of teachers, but
they are generally of lower quality and cost more to parents. The low quality in these schools is
explained by poor quality teachers and  scarcity of educational materials.  Unit costs of
operations in these schools is, however, lower than in public schools. Current and proposed GOI
support for private education would help maintain or increase its share of enrollment and
improve quality. In the more southern provinces of Sumatra (Jambi, South Sumatra and
Lampung), private schools are responsible for 30-50% of enrollment; in Aceh and West
Sumatra, however, only for about 17%.
1.18  In some sparsely populated areas, regular schools still will be far away for most students.
The SMP Terbuka ("open SMP") programs have been established to meet the needs of students
who cannot attend regular schools because of distance or high direct and opportunity costs.
These are non-fee-paying schools, and students attend afternoon classes one or more times a
week, usually at a junior secondary school, supplemented by tutorials in their villages.
1.19   To assist rural families who cannot afford to pay for education, GOI has established a
scholarship program for children of low economic background and satisfactory academic
achievement. This program covers all costs related to junior secondary education; within the



StaffAppraisal Report                               5
eligible group, priority is given to children from remote areas, orphans, and girls. GOI plans to
expand this program, to improve its effectiveness.
Initiatives Related to Quality
1.20   Various initiatives have also been introduced to improve the quality of junior secondary
education, including efforts to bring good teachers to underserved areas. Although there is an
excess number of teachers in the aggregate, there is an unequal distribution of teachers between
urban and rural areas within provinces because most rural teaching positions are considered
undesirable. To address this issue of shortages of (particularly core subject) teachers in rural and
remote areas, "contract teachers" are being proposed in rural schools in core academic areas.
Some rural communities have also provided their teachers with dormitories. In addition, the
Government is already providing some financial compensation for service in hardship areas.
Over the longer term, local recruitment is one practice that will help to keep teachers in rural
areas.
1.21   Developed from an initiative taken by the subject teacher quality improvement forum
(MGMP), an in-service teacher training program called PKG was introduced in 1983 to improve
the subject-matter knowledge and skills of teachers. This program was highly successful in
improving the pedagogical skills of teachers in the selected subject areas and created a positive
attitude among teachers where it was provided. There were however some serious shortcomings
of the program. The subject-matter knowledge of teachers was not fully addressed, development
of skills in identifying learning difficulties was neglected, and teachers in rural areas could not be
covered because of high costs and logistical difficulties. Training was provided every weekend
followed by classroom visits, and trainees were supposed to develop their own materials. Some
of the rural teachers who could be reached could not take full advantage of the program because
of weak qualifications. Revitalization of content and decentralization of the PKG and MGMP
system to the district level and the systematic involvement of regional MOEC staff, including
supervisors and principals in the training program, would help address this issue.
C.  JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION IN THE SUMATRA PROVINCES
General Description of Project Provinces
1.22   The Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project covers five of the country's 27
provinces: (a) DI Aceh, (b) West Sumatra, (c) Jambi, (d) South Sumatra, and (e) Lampung.
Other recently approved projects are the East Java and NTT Junior Secondary Education Project
and the Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project. The project provinces face
challenges in the provision of junior secondary education that are common to all provinces in
Indonesia, though not to the same extent. These challenges are (a) to expand equitable access to
junior secondary education; (b) to improve the quality of education throughout the provinces;
and (c) to make education management more efficient as the provinces assume increased
responsibility. Access is restricted mainly by the lack of places; high direct and opportunity
costs; and great distances and limited transportation networks in some provinces. In some
instances, parents in very remote or difficult areas do not express interest in junior secondary
education because they think it is beyond their reach. The most important factors affecting



6                         Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
quality and internal efficiency are: teacher knowledge and skills; the availability of textbooks,
teaching materials, and equipment; the curriculum; pedagogical supervision; the flexibility of the
school calendar; school management; and examinations and educational assessment.
Table 1.1: Basic Data On Project Provinces
Di       fWest               South
Aceh    Sumatra      Jambi Sumatra   Lampung   INDONESIA
Area (km')             64.020    61,191    53.436    125,237     53,762      1,929,411
Population (million)      3.9       4.3        2.4       7.2        6.7          195.3
Province as % of total   1.98      2.22       1.22      3.70       3.42        100.00
Pop. density (per km2)     62        80        45         61        181            93
Infant mortality           58        74        74         71         69            71
Fertility rate           3.01      2.87       2.83      2.97       2.92          2.65
In-migration             1.72     -1.78      10.81      5.23       1.77           n.a.
(from 1988-1993)
GDP growth               7.49       6.79      7.99      5.72       8.06          7.68
(from 1988-1993)
Share of GDP (%)         1.92      2.02       0.84      3.52       2.07        100.00
1993 GDP per capita     1,302     1,195       942      1,284       803          1,436
(Rp '000) (without oil)
Poverty incidence (%)   13.46      13.47     13.38      14.89     11.63          13.67
Calorie consumption     2,124     2,036      2,088      1,939     2,094          1,879
Protein consumption      53.3       45.2      48.5      45.5       45.8          45.5
Real wage rate (%        19.2       18.7      31.7      13.6       13.3          25.5
increase 1990-1993)
Source: Population Projections 1990-2000 (CBS/1993)
Population Census 1980-1990 (CBS)
National Socio-Economic Survey "Susenas" 1990, 1993
National Labor Force Survey "Susenas" 1990, 1993
1.23    The five project provinces have populations of about three to seven million each,
accounting each for less than 4% of the total population in Indonesia, and less than 12% in the
aggregate. Except for Lampung, (at 181 people per km 2), population density is lower than in the
country nationally, with substantial remote and sparsely populated areas in all provinces.



Staff,Appraisal Report                               7
Population growth, however, over the last ten years is higher than for Indonesia as a whole, due
to higher than average fertility rates and in-migration from Java in most of these provinces
(except West Sumatra).
1.24 All five provinces remain predominately rural and agriculture still accounts for two-
thirds or more of total employment, while industry accounts for 18 to 20%, compared to 32%
nationally. Average GDP growth per year for the five provinces remains around the national
average, while GDP per capita (without oil) for 1993, however, in all provinces is below the
national average (from Rp. 803,000 for Lampung, to Rp. 1,302,000 for Aceh, against Rp.
1,436,000 nationally). With regard to the incidence of poverty, the provinces are similar to the
national average, while calorie and protein consumption are at the national average or better. As
is the case in the rest of the country, the poverty incidence has been declining.
Table 1.2: Primary and Junior Secondary Education Profiles
in Five Sumatra Provinces
DI      West              South
Aceh   Sumatra  Jambi  Sumatra  Lampung Indonesia
Primary Eduicationi
Gross Enrollment Rate     113.0    112.6    110.3    110.8    111.6        111.8
Net Enrollment Rate       99.0      95.3     98.7      94.3      98.3       95.6
Drop-Out Rate              2.0      2.9      4.3       4.9       2.5        2.8
Repetition Rate           10.2      10.3      9.0      9.1       7.2        7.6
Retention Rate            72.9     78.5      77.4     71.9      61.8       82.0
Junior Secondary
Transition Rate (Primary    78.3    71.0     64.8      64.9     65.1       66.8
to Junior Secondary)
Gross Enrollment Rate     59.2     66.6      55.0      51.7     54.4       58.2
Net Enrollment Rate       44.9      52.0     38.5      38.6      41.8       44.6
Drop-Out Rate              4.9      2.2      6.4       3.6       NA         3.9
Repetition Rate            2.0      1.6       1.1      1.2       0.2        0.7
Source: 1994/5 data from "Statistik Persekolahan," Informatics Center, R&D Board, MOEC



8                     Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
1.25   A number of common constraints bear on further development of junior secondary
education in the five project provinces on Sumatra island, reflecting the geographic and
economic conditions of these provinces. With regard to primary and junior secondary education,
these provinces exhibit the following similar characteristics (See Table 1.2):
In primary schools:
*      A gross enrollment rate as high or higher than the national average.
*      A repetition rate higher than the national average and a lower than average
retention rate.
In junior secondary schools:
*      Gross enrollment rates lower than the national average for the three southern
provinces (Jambi, South Sumatra and Lampung), but higher for Aceh and West
Sumatra.
*      Similarly, lower transition rates from  primary schools for the same three
provinces vs. higher ones for the last two.
*      Wide differences between provinces in drop-out and repetition rates.
Generally, the education programs in these provinces face the following challenges:
(a)    All provinces have in varying degrees remote-access and sparsely populated
areas in mountainous regions, swamp areas and forested islands, making it
difficult to provide access widely through regular schools. Alternatives, such as
SMP Terbuka, are therefore appropriate.
(b)    The existence of substantial remote and rural areas has resulted in a particularly
severe problem of imbalance in teacher distribution, with rural schools lacking
teachers in all provinces.
(c)    The three southern provinces, Jambi, South Sumatra and Lampung, are subjected
to heavy and continuous in-migration from Java, both planned and spontaneous.
Education administrators need to be especially skilled in school expansion
planning under these conditions.
(d)    For junior secondary education, enrollments and other indicators are generally
below the national averages, although not by much, perhaps reflecting the more
difficult geographic conditions. These provinces, therefore, will need to make a
greater effort in reaching the targets.
DI ACEH
1.26   DI Aceh is located on the northern tip of the island of Sumatra and facing northern
Malaysia. From the perspective of the project, what distinguishes this province is:



StaffAppraisal Report                              9
*     In line with higher average household incomes and living standards, a better than
average education: some 36% of the labor force is educated at junior secondary
school level and above, compared with only 27% for the country as a whole.
*     As a result of higher family income and parental educational attainment, the
demand for junior secondary school is likely to remain high.
*     In primary education, Aceh is ahead of the country, with 99% of its primary
school age population enrolled in this cycle compared with 96% for the country
as a whole.
*     The primary-junior secondary school transition rate was over 78% compared
with 67% for the country as whole. However, due to the lower completion rate at
primary school, the junior secondary school enrollment rates were similar to
those of the country as a whole, at 59% for the gross enrollment rate, and 45%
for the net enrollment rate.
*     Access to junior secondary schools for the remote population living away from the
populated coastal areas is a problem.
WEST SUMATRA
1.27   West Sumatra is composed of three distinct regions, a volcanic highland, a long coastal
plain which is swampy in places and cultivated in others, and a string of forested islands lying
about 100 km offshore. Distinguishing characteristics of this province are:
*     Out-migration of 1.78 per thousand in 1980-90, with population density over the
1980-90 period increasing by less than the country average, and a population
growth rate, at 1.6% p.a. lower than the country average.
*     Some 33% of the labor force is educated at junior secondary school level and
above, compared with only 27% for the country as a whole. Similarly, illiteracy
rates are among the lowest in the country, at 8% versus 14% for Indonesia.
*     A diverse physical environment of the province and the presence of a large island
population resulting in uneven enrollment levels.
*     A high primary school repetition rate at 10%, compared with the country average
of 7.6%, perhaps due to children absenteeism in this mountainous province.
*     A primary-junior secondary school transition rate of 71% compared with 67%
nationally, with a high enrollment rate of 67% versus 58%.



10                    Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
JAMBI
1.28   The sparsely populated province of Jambi consists of a lowland basin of dense jungle,
peat bogs and swamps, drained by Sumatra's longest river, the Batang Hari, and its tributaries.
Distinguishing characteristics of this province are:
*      Vigorous in-migration (10.8 per thousand in 1980-90) with population density
increasing by 40% and high population growth rate.
*      Illiteracy rates are among the lowest in the country, at 7%  versus 14%  for
Indonesia.
*     Jambi's primary school net enrollment rate increased by about 8% in the 1991-92 to
1994-95 period, presumably because of the continuous arrival of migrant families
into the province, resulting in a significant improvement in the primary school
completion rate.
*      Low junior secondary education enrollment rates, due to the difficult terrain and
rapidly expanding population due to in-migration. (Note: Because of the large flow
of migrants into Jambi, educational statistics are difficult to interpret, particularly
levels and trends in enrollment rates.)
SOUTH SUMATRA
1.29   South Sumatra is the most populated of the five project provinces. Significant
characteristics from the project's perspective are:
*      Due to substantial in-migration from  Java (5.2 per thousand in 1980-90),
population density increased over the 1980-90 period by more than a third, and
population growth rate increased, at 3.1% p.a., much higher than the country
average of 2.0% in this period.
*     A lower-than-average performance in Primary Education on all indicators: Net
Enrollment Rate of 94.3, completion rate of 71.9, drop-out rate of 4.9 and
repetition rate of 9.1.
*     Junior secondary school gross enrollment rates lower than for Indonesia, at 52%
versus 58%.
LAMPUNG
1.30   Lampung occupies the southern most tip of Sumatra, separated from Java by the shallow
Sunda straits. From the project's perspective, distinguishing characteristics are:
*      A densely populated province similar in nature to Java, 181 persons per square
kilometer in 1990, three times the average for Sumatra, and twice the Indonesian
average of 93 persons per square kilometer nevertheless continuing to experience



Staff Appraisal Report                          11
in-migration from Java (1.8 per thousand in 1980-90), with population density
over the 1980-90 period increasing by over 30%.
*     Per capita income, at $400 p.a., is only 56% of the national average of $718 per
annum; average household expenditure levels were also 30% lower than the
country average, and did not rise in the 1990-1993 period compared with a 13%
rise for the country as whole.
*     Despite lower incomes and wages, average calorie and protein consumption was
somewhat higher than the country average, and then levels were maintained in
the 1990-1993 period. Consequently poverty incidence, at 11.6%, was lower than
the country average of 13.7% in 1993, and declined by 1.5% since 1990.
*     In line with lower income and the predominantly rural character of this province,
the educational level of the people of Lampung is lower than for the country as a
whole. Some 24% of the labor force was educated at junior school level and above
compared with 27% for Indonesia.
*     The province's primary school completion rate, at 62%, was 20% lower than the
national rate of 82% in 1994-95. Drop-out rates before 1991-92 were unusually
high at 16%-17%, affecting the output of the primary education system in the mid-
i990s. With drop-out rates down to about 3%, however, the completion rate is
likely to improve dramatically in the coming years.
*     The junior secondary school gross enrollment rates were lower than for Indonesia,
at 54% versus 58%.
The expansion of junior secondary education must address the relatively low
completion rate at the primary school level, which is 20% below the national
average. Although drop-out and repeater rates have fallen drastically, more may
need to be done to ensure that all primary school age children actually complete
this cycle.



12                   Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
2. GOVERNMENT AND BANK STRATEGY
AND LESSONS LEARNED
A.  GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
2.1    As part of the Repelita VI (1994/99) program, the Government set the important goal of
extending access to high quality junior secondary education. This objective is integral to the
goal of attaining universal coverage of nine-years of basic education by the end of Repelita VII
(2004/05). To support this goal, the Government has adopted several policy measures and
strategies: (a) it plans to provide additional resources to basic education; (b) it has abolished
junior secondary school fees; (c) it is providing free textbooks for all primary and junior
secondary schoolchildren; (d) it is supporting private junior secondary schools with public
teachers and other inputs to maintain and even increase their significant enrollment participation
at this school level; (e) it continues to upgrade teachers' skills for both public and private schools
through in-service programs; (f) it has started the construction or development of regular or
alternative schools in rural and remote villages; (g) it has phased out all diploma courses for the
preservice education of secondary school teachers (junior and senior) so all new teachers at that
level now need to have an SI (undergraduate degree); (h) it is upgrading existing junior
secondary school teachers to D-III (three-year post-secondary diploma); and (i) it is extending
subsidies (scholarships) to capable but poor students to begin or continue junior secondary
education.
B.  LESSONS LEARNED
2.2   Integration of the following lessons from previous Bank projects would help build on the
exceptional performance of the Bank in the education sector in Indonesia. All the 21 previous
projects have been judged satisfactory by OED, and they have set the stage for the more
challenging tasks in this sector. OED Document, No. 9752, Indonesian Education and the
World Bank: an Assessment of Two Decades of Lending, 1991: a) found that each of the
previous projects was successfully implemented; b) concluded that Bank support in education
projects was timely and gave valuable encouragement to the Government; and c) pointed out
that the projects were successes and achieved important goals, but also indicated shortcomings in
the quality of education and fragmented management and coordination --issues being addressed
by the present project.
2.3    OED Report. The 1991 report has several conclusions and recommendations that are
relevant for this project:
Issue: Institution building is basic to the long-term goal of increasing the self-sufficiency
of the Indonesian education system (p. 58).
Project response: Increased emphasis on institution building and self-management at
provincial and district levels.



Staff Appraisal Report                             13
Issue: Projects must be discussed within the framework of the policy dialogue (p. 65).
Project response: Regular discussions between MOEC and the Bank on development
priorities and the role of the Bank related to other donors are instrumental in determining
agenda for Bank lending.
Issue: Despite explicit goals, projects have not always achieved equitable distribution of
project benefits to the poor (p. 68).
Project response: Several project interventions are specifically targeted to the poor:
school construction in rural areas, SMP Terbuka and scholarship program.
Issue: Previous projects (mainly national in scope) were often overly complex or
underestimated absorption constraints and experience, resulting in unsatisfactory
implementation (p. 70).
Project response: The project has been designed with extensive participation from
communities, existing schools, district and provincial MOEC staff.
Issue: GOI should spend a greater amount of its budget on education, to achieve the
necessary quality and institutional objectives (p. 78).
Project response: Indonesia's education expenditures are 14 percent of total government
budget; The 1996/97 budget shows an increase of 20 percent over last year, of which 72
percent is spent on basic education (primary and junior secondary).
Issue: Despite its support from GOI and the Bank (p.79) role in providing educational
opportunities, the private system has received limited support from GOI and the Bank
(p. 79).
Project response: GOI is now committed to ensuring that the involvement of the private
sector in junior secondary education is maintained and strengthened. Recent projects have
helped private schools improve their quality.
2.4    Lessons from completed and ongoing projects in secondary education. Other lessons
have been drawn or confirmed by the General Operational Review of Secondary Education
Projects by HDD. Implementation of the Indonesia Secondary Education Project (Ln. 2472-
IND) and the ongoing Second Secondary Education and Management Project (Ln. 3158-lND) are
particularly relevant in this respect.
(a)    Overall Project Design. The completed and ongoing secondary education
projects have demonstrated that the expansion of secondary education should be
addressed through a dual strategy of increasing school places and improving the
quality of education. The proposed project would include both expansion and
quality improvement objectives, to ensure continuing demand for education and
to improve repetition and drop-out rates.
(b)    Flexibility in the Design of Components.  Attempts to impose standard
solutions to the variety of conditions in Indonesia (as in all large countries) have
not been successful, and GOI is working to correct this situation, the policy of
limiting the size of government schools to a minimum of nine classrooms has
been reviewed, to allow government schools to be established in communities



14                   Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
with small populations and experimentation has started with alternative smaller
models of junior secondary education.
(c)    Ownership and Participation. Local communities contribute significantly to
the development of education in their areas. Stakeholders and clients are also
well placed to evaluate project outcomes. They know when children are learning
and how investments in schools are being used. Stakeholder involvement (which
was emphasized during the preparation process) is critical to fully measure
project outcomes, to understand how a project is unfolding and to help develop
appropriate corrective measures when necessary. The project will promote and
supplement the use of local resources for education by providing assistance in
kind and incentives for both private and public education.
C.  BANK STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR INVOLVEMENT
2.5    This project, the third in a series of junior secondary education investments financed by
the Bank, supports the Bank's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Indonesia, which was
presented to the Board on March 21, 1995 and updated on June 4, 1996. The CAS endorses
Government's role towards establishing a regulatory framework and in supporting
decentralization and participation. In addition, the CAS highlights the importance of continued
emphasis on human resource development to promote economic growth, competitiveness, and
structural transformation, and on a more selective, efficient use of public resources. The design
of the proposed project is also consistent with the Bank's strategy of balanced assistance to the
education sector, which includes on-going and proposed assistance for (a) improving the quality
of primary education, including possible interventions in early childhood development; (b)
expansion and quality improvement of lower-secondary education; (c) quality improvement of
upper-secondary education; (d) selective interventions in higher education; and (e) an active
policy dialogue designed to redefine and refocus the Government's role in the education sector.
Before continuing with further projects in Basic Education in Indonesia, the Board and GOI will
hold a joint seminar, to discuss future strategy and Bank involvement.
2.6   The Bank's comparative advantage in supporting junior secondary education is based on
its long-standing and close working relationship with MOEC. The Bank has engaged in a
comprehensive dialogue with MOEC that reaches far beyond this project itself, since it has
helped to: (a) establish a solid conceptual and economic framework for the expansion and
improvement of junior secondary education and basic education in Indonesia over the next 20
years; (b) identify the comparative advantages for the Bank's and other donors' role in the
planned expansion and quality improvement process; and (c) strengthen the decentralizing trends
toward sub-central levels, province-specific projects, and local ownership. As a result of this
dialogue, the previous higlhly centralized, uniform approach to project design and implementation
has been abandoned and has been replaced by an approach that will rest on provincially based
projects. This approach recognizes the need to take into account specific provincial situations,
including economic growth trends and prospects, the existing education needs, labor market
conditions, private sector delivery capacity, levels of poverty, and geographic conditions. The
Bank has also been an active partner in the discussions on the priorities governing basic
education delivery, on the role of the private sector in secondary education and on the share of
Government spending that should be allocated to basic education.



Staff Appraisal Report                            15
2.7   The Bank is a trusted partner in basic education in Indonesia and has substantial
experience working with the Indonesian Government in this sector. Based on the Bank's
worldwide experience, GOI sought the Bank's advice on such issues as lower-cost alternatives
for junior secondary education, how to improve quality and how to tailor the proposed increased
access programs to local needs. The proposed project represents one in an overall program of
Bank support for expansion and quality improvements in basic education. Currently, the Bank is
starting two other secondary education projects (East Java/NTT Junior Secondary Education and
Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education) and the Government has requested that the Bank
provide both financial and technical assistance for future projects.  The junior secondary
education development program is supported by other donors, including ADB and OECF. This
project complements the assistance to basic education provided by several ongoing projects:
(a)    Second Secondary Education and Management Project. This project (Ln.
3158-IND), approved in 1990, supports: provision of quality inputs in secondary
schools (teacher training, equipment and books); review and redesign of the
student assessment system; and redesign of the information management system.
After initial problems, mainly due to the large national scope, the project was
restructured to operate in five pilot provinces, with satisfactory results. The
implementation experience from this project has provided the basis for the design
of the current project. In addition, the Bank is now very familiar with the issues
and the agencies involved in this subsector at the provincial level.
(b)    The Primary and Secondary School Teacher Development Projects. These
two projects (Ln. 3496-IND and 3979-IND) address pre-service training of
primary and secondary school teachers respectively.  They complement the
current project in the preparation and quality improvements of teachers and
substantial coordination between pre-service and in-service training is achieved
through the concurrent implementation of these projects. The Bank is also
heavily involved in ensuring that maximum coordination is achieved between
Teacher Development Projects and the in-service training components of the
Secondary Education Development Projects.
(c)    The Primary Education Quality Improvement Project. Approved in 1992,
this project (Ln. 3448-IND) provides quality inputs in primary schools in six
provinces. The issues related to primary schools that impact on transition,
enrollments and quality in junior secondary schools are being addressed in this
project on a limited scale. Project impact is now being reviewed, to determine
the further strategies for implementation on a larger scale.
(d)    The Book and Reading Development Project. (Ln. 3887-IND). The project
became effective in September 1995 and provides free textbooks to every
primary and junior secondary education student in all subjects. Books will be
provided both to public and private schools. The project provides one of the
most essential quality inputs into basic education on a systematic basis, and
complements the Secondary Education Development Projects, which will focus
on supporting non-textbook educational materials and teaching aids.



16                   Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
3. THE PROJECT
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1    The project would assist the MOEC in achieving a greater number of junior
secondary school graduates of better quality upon graduation. This would be pursued by:
(a)    expanding access to junior secondary education in a cost-effective and
equitable way;
(b)   improving the quality of junior secondary education; and
(c)   strengthening the education management capacity at all levels.
B.  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND CRITICAL SUCCESS FACTORS
3.2   Project impact will be assessed using the following indicators (see Annex 10):
(a)    achievement of project enrollment targets by province (satisfactory if 75
percent achieved) in new junior secondary schools constructed under the
project, by project completion date;
(b)   an increase in student examination scores for core subjects by at least 10
percent for each subject by the end of the project (on a score of I to 10, with
current averages between 3.5 and 6); and
(c)   implementation of at least 80 percent of the annual work program as
measured by the physical targets and budget spent each fiscal year for project
and routine activities in each province.
C.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Components
3.3   To meet the objectives of increasing access to junior secondary education, improving
the quality of junior secondary education, and enhancing education management, activities
related to the following components and subcomponents would be implemented selectively
and in varying degrees in the public and private systems of the five project provinces. The
total cost of the project is US$144.0 million, including contingencies.
3.4    Expand Access (estimated base costs of US$78.5 million). To improve access to
junior secondary education, the project would (a) create a total of 53,520 student school
places by building regular junior secondary schools with priority for underserved rural areas
where female participation is also lowest; (b) gradually expand alternative equivalency
programs by creating 27,600 places with greater quality inputs for those who cannot attend



StaffAppraisal Report                             17
regular schools, and monitor the programs' effectiveness; (c) student and teacher
accommodations for public schools in rural and remote areas; and (e) finance scholarships
for 32,600 talented poor students with priority given to girls in public and private schools.
See Annex 4 for more details on options for increasing access. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it will (i) select locations for construction in accordance
with criteria agreed with the Bank and (ii) award scholarships in accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Bank (See para 6.01 [a]).
3.5    New schools will be built only in rural areas, where no existing schools are yet
available, either public or private. School location will be determined based on local
planning, which will take into account existing SMP schools and the locations of the feeder
SD schools. Six-classroom schools are preferred in these provinces, since once established
and filled, they are less costly to run than the smaller 3-classroom schools, which require a
larger number of teachers relative to the number of students.
3.6   Improve Quality (estimated base costs of US$35.2 million). To improve the quality
of junior secondary education, the project would (a) strengthen school teachers' subject-
matter knowledge and pedagogical skills, including identification of learning difficulties,
through inservice and upgrading training programs, and support measures to bring teachers
to rural areas; (b) enhance the learning environment by providing schools with tools for
teaching and learning, including educational equipment and materials; science teaching aids;
new teaching rooms; and library and reference books; and (c) provide contract teachers for
rural areas. All public schools, including schools supported by MOEC and by MORA, will
be included in the project. All private schools, subject to certain criteria, will also be eligible
for quality improvement inputs. Criteria for private school inclusion are all schools with: (a)
classroom size equal or greater than the provincial private school average; (b) own land and
school buildings; and (c) at least half of teachers as regular, full-time teachers. These access
and quality interventions would help increase access of girls in areas where gender
disparities still exist. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will
employ contract teachers during the project, in the numbers and locations and with the
criteria as agreed with the Bank (See para 6.01 [a]).
3.7    Strengthen Education Management (estimated base costs of US$5.1 million). To
strengthen the management of the education system, the project would (a) train school
principals and other administrators in managing schools and providing pedagogical support
to teachers; and (b) develop managerial and data analysis capacity to allow provincial and
district staff to effectively handle their increasing responsibilities for education planning and
management. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will carry out the
management training in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank (See para 6.01 [a]).
3.8    Project Management (estimated base costs of US$7.3 million). The project would
support the strengthening of institutional capacities as well as the operational costs of project
management by the Kanwils and Kandeps. Coordination requirements by the MOEC
Directorate of Secondary Education (Dikmenum) would be provided under the Central
Indonesia Junior Secondary Education Project.



18                   Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Detailed Description of Interventions for Each Province
DI ACEH
Access
3.9    New School Construction. (US$8.7 million equivalent, excluding contingencies).
During the project period, 39 new 6-classroom schools will be built, adding 9,360 student
places and representing 18% of the needs. Remaining requirements will be provided
through financing from other donors, establishment of private schools and direct government
financing (APBN).
3.10   Alternative Equivalency Programs.  (US$1.4 million equivalent, excluding
contingencies). As an alternative to the regular schools, support will be provided to establish
22 SMP Terbuka (open SMP), each enrolling about 200 students, for a total of 4,400
students. The project would provide the necessary books and equipment for each of the SMP
Terbuka; it would also provide motorcycles to allow teachers to visit the satellite sites served
by the SMP mother schools and which are often not easily reachable by public
transportation.
3.11   Construction of Teacher Houses and Student Dormitories. (US$1.1 million
equivalent, excluding contingencies).  In isolated areas, where it is difficult to attract
teachers or where most students live too far away from the school, dormitories will be
constructed. The project will support the construction of teacher housing for 23 remote
schools and 7 student dormitories during the five year project period.
3.12   Student Scholarships. (US$2.1 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). The
project would support an expansion of the existing Kanwil-managed scholarship scheme,
after evaluation of its impact and review of its implementation mechanisms. The scholarship
would provide Rp 25,000 per month (for 12 months and normally for three years) to selected
students. Eligibility criteria would focus principally on the family's income level and the
student's school performance. The scholarship would be offered to 5,300 SMP students in
Aceh.
Quality
3.13   Teacher  Training  and  Support.  (US$3.4  million  equivalent, excluding
contingencies). The project would finance formal and informal in-service training for SMP
teachers. Existing upgrading programs at the Open University and at the teacher training
institutes will be evaluated and new programs designed for those subjects still requiring
major upgrading support. Upgrading of existing teachers from their current degree (DI and
D2) to the required D3 degree will be supported for 639 teachers through the redesigned
teacher upgrading programs. An additional 1,003 teachers would be able to participate in
shorter upgrading certificate programs, to allow them to teach in a subject different from
their current one. For 9,300 teachers, the project would support the in-service MGMP
program during the project period, while PKG Model C training would be available for
teachers in remote areas if required (up to 10% of all teachers). Additional training for guru



StaffAppraisal Report                           19
inti (key teachers) will be supported, as well as school cluster meetings for 643 school
principals.
3.14   Learning Materials. (US$1.9 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). For all
existing 643 SMP schools in the province, both public and private, packages of library books
and educational teaching materials would be provided under the project. School principals
and teachers would be able to decide which items they would buy, and procurement will be
carried out for the province overall at Kanwil level.
3.15   Contract Teachers. (US$0.6 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). On a
pilot basis, the project would support the hiring of up to 166 contract teachers for rural
schools in core academic areas, such as Bahasa Indonesia, Mathematics, Science Education
and English, where teachers are often lacking. Criteria were established for the conditions of
the contract, which would be tied to a specific school and would be discontinued if the
teacher leaves that school or does not meet thle contractual requirements.
Management
3.16   Strengthening Education Management. (US$0.2 million equivalent, excluding
contingencies). GOI is deconcentrating education management, by giving Kanwils and
Kandep offices increased responsibilities over regional and local matters and in project
implementation.  The project would provide managerial and technical training to
administrative staff at central, provincial, district, subdistrict and school levels. Training
would cover 22 staff from the Kanwil and 130 staff from the Kandeps. At Kanwil and
Kandep level, the emphasis would be on planning (including micro-planning), policy
analysis, monitoring, and evaluation and education data analysis and dissemination. At sub-
district level, training would focus on education data management. At school level, training
would help principals of all public and private schools to enrich their skills in supporting
teachers and students, developing community participation and managing school facilities.
3.17  Information Management. (US$0.8 million equivalent, excluding contingencies).
The project would support the capacity of provincial and district education administration to
manage and efficiently use information, in light of the intended de-concentration of project
implementation.  Three information functions will be reviewed and  developed:  (a)
forecasting, planning and monitoring by Kanwil and Kandeps; (b) data processing by
Dikmenum and Kanwil; and (c) school education data management by Kandeps. The project
would provide technical assistance for the development of the functions, analytical and skills
training for staff, software and equipment.
WEST SUMATRA
Access
3.18   New School Construction. (US$9.2 million equivalent, excluding contingencies).
During the project period, 41 new 6-classroom schools will be built, adding 9,840 student
places and representing 21% ofthe needs. Remaining requirements will be provided through



20                    Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
financing from other donors, establishment of private schools and direct government
financing (APBN).
3.19   Alternative Equivalency Programs.  (US$1.3 million equivalent, excluding
contingencies). Support will be provided to establish 21 SMP Terbuka (open SMP), each
enrolling about 200 students, for a total of 4,200 students. The project would provide the
necessary books and equipment for each of the SMP Terbuka; it would also provide
motorcycles, to allow teachers to visit the satellite sites served by the SMP mother schools
and which are often not easily reachable by public transportation.
3.20   Construction of Teacher Houses and Student Dormitories. (US$1.8 million
equivalent, excluding contingencies).  In isolated areas, where it is difficult to attract
teachers or where most students live too far away from the school, dormitories will be
constructed. The project will support the construction of teacher housing for 25 remote
schools and 25 student dormitories during the five year project period.
3.21   Student Scholarships. (US$2.5 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). The
project would support an expansion of the existing Kanwil-managed scholarship scheme,
after evaluation of its impact and review of its implementation mechanisms. The scholarship
would provide Rp 25,000 per month (for 12 months and normally for three years) to selected
students. Eligibility criteria would focus principally on the family's income level and the
student's school performance. The scholarship would be offered to 6,600 SMP students in
West Sumatra.
Quality
3.22   Teacher  Training  and  Support.  (US$4.6  million  equivalent, excluding
contingencies). The project would finance formal and informal in-service training for SMP
teachers. Existing upgrading programs at the Open University and at the teacher training
institutes will be evaluated and new programs designed for those subject still requiring major
upgrading support. Upgrading of existing teachers from their current degree (Dl and D2) to
the required D3 degree will be supported for 1,305 teachers through the redesigned teacher
upgrading programs. An additional 1,045 teachers would be able to participate in shorter
upgrading certificate programs, to allow them to teach in a subject different from their
current one. For 12,050 teachers, the project would support the in-service MGMP program
during the project period, while PKG Model C training would be available for teachers in
remote areas if required (up to 10% of all teachers). Additional training for guru inti (key
teachers) will be supported, as well as school cluster meetings for 697 school principals.
3.23   Learning Materials. (US$2.1 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). For all
existing 697 SMP schools in the province, both public and private, packages of library books
and educational teaching materials would be provided under the project. School principals
and teachers would be able to decide which items they would buy, and procurement will be
carried out for the province overall at Kanwil level.
3.24   Contract Teachers. (US$0.6 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). On a
pilot basis, the project would support the hiring of up to 162 contract teachers for rural



Staff Appraisal Report                          21
schools in core academic areas, such as Bahasa Indonesia, Mathematics, Science Education
and English.
Management
3.25   Strengthening Education Management. (US$0.2 million equivalent, excluding
contingencies). Training would cover 22 staff from the Kanwil and 170 staff from the
Kandeps. At Kanwil and Kandep level, the emphasis would be on planning (including
micro-planning), policy analysis, monitoring, and evaluation and education data analysis and
dissemination. At sub-district level, training would focus on education data management.
At school level, training would help 1,394 principals and school administrators of all public
and private schools to enrich their skills in supporting teachers and students, developing
community participation and managing school facilities.
3.26  Information Management. (US$0.9 million equivalent, excluding contingencies).
The project would support the capacity of provincial and district education administration to
manage and efficiently use information, in light of the intended de-concentration of project
implementation.  Three information functions will be reviewed and developed:  (a)
forecasting, planning and monitoring by Kanwil and Kandeps; (b) data processing by
Dikmenum and Kanwil; and (c) school education data management by Kandeps. The project
would provide technical assistance for the development of the functions, analytical and skills
training for staff, software and equipment.
JAMBI
Access
3.27   New School Construction. (US$4.5 million equivalent, excluding contingencies).
During the project period, 20 new 6-classroom schools will be built, adding 4,800 student
places and representing 15% of the needs. Remaining requirements will be provided through
financing from other donors, establishment of private schools and direct government
financing (APBN).
3.28   Alternative Equivalency Programs.  (US$1.5 million equivalent, excluding
contingencies). Support will be provided to establish 23 SMP Terbuka (open SMP), each
enrolling about 200 students, for a total of 4,600 students. The project would provide the
necessary books and equipment for each of the SMP Terbuka; it would also provide
motorcycles to allow teachers to visit the satellite sites served by the SMP mother schools
and which are often not easily reachable by public transportation.
3.29   Construction of Teacher Houses and Student Dormitories. (US$0.9 million
equivalent, excluding contingencies).  In isolated areas, where it is difficult to attract
teachers or where most students live too far away from the school, teacher housing and
dormitories will be constructed. The project will support the construction of teacher housing
for 13 remote schools and 13 student dormitories during the five year project period.



22                   Sumatra Junior Seconidary Education Project
3.30   Student Scholarships. (US$1.4 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). The
Kanwil-managed scholarship scheme would be offered to 3,600 SMP students.
Quality
3.31   Teacher  Training  and  Support. (US$1.7  million  equivalent, excluding
contingencies). Existing upgrading programs at the Open University and at the teacher
training institutes will be evaluated and new programs designed for those subjects still
requiring major upgrading support. Upgrading of existing teachers from their current degree
(DI and D2) to the required D3 degree would be supported for 419 teachers through the
redesigned teacher upgrading programs. An additional 947 teachers would be able to
participate in shorter upgrading certificate programs, to allow them to teach in a subject
different from their current one. For 3,875 teachers, the project would support the in-service
MGMP program during the project period, while PKG Model C training would be available
for teachers in remote areas if required (up to 10% of all teachers). Additional training for
guru inti (key teachers) will be supported, as well as school cluster meetings for 466 school
principals.
3.32   Learning Materials. (US$1.4 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). For all
existing 466 SMP schools in the province, both public and private, packages of library books
and educational teaching materials would be provided under the project. School principals
and teachers would be able to decide which items they would buy, and procurement will be
carried out for the province overall at Kanwil level.
3.33   Contract Teachers. (US$0.6 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). On a
pilot basis, the project would support the hiring of tIp to 145 contract teachers for rural
schools in core academic areas, such as Bahasa lndonesia, Mathematics, Science Education
and English.
Management
3.34   Strengthening Education Management. (US$0.1 million, excluding contingencies).
Training would cover 22 staff from the Kanwil and 90 staff from the Kandeps. At Kanwil
and Kandep level, the emphasis would be on planning (including micro-planning), policy
analysis, monitoring, and evaluation and education data analysis and dissemination. At sub-
district level, training would focus on education data management. At school level, training
would help 932 principals and school administrators of all public and private schools to
enrich their skills in supporting teachers and students, developing community participation
and managing school facilities.
3.35  Information Management. (US$0.6 million equivalent, excluding contingencies).
The project would support the capacity of provincial and district education administration to
manage and efficiently use information, in light of the intended de-concentration of project
implementation.  Three information functions will be reviewed and developed:  (a)
forecasting, planning and monitoring by Kanwil and Kandeps; (b) data processing by
Dikmenum and Kanwil; and (c) school education data management by Kandeps. The project



StaffAppraisal Report                            23
would provide technical assistance for the development of the functions, analytical and skills
training for staff, software and equipment.
SOUTH SUMATRA
Access
3.36   New School Construction. (US$15.6 million equivalent, excluding contingencies).
During the project period, 70 new 6-classroom schools will be built, adding 16.800 student
places and representing 13% of the needs. Remaining requirements will be provided
through financing from other donors (OECF), establishment of private schools and direct
government financing (APBN).
3.37   Alternative Equivalency Programs.  (US$1.8 million equivalent, excluding
contingencies). Support will be provided to establish 28 SMP Terbuka (open SMP), each
enrolling about 200 students, for a total of 5,600 students. The project would provide the
necessary books and equipment for each of the SMP Terbuka; it would also provide
motorcycles to allow teachers to visit the satellite sites served by the SMP mother schools
and which are often not easily reachable by public transportation.
3.38   Construction of Teacher Houses and Student Dormitories. (US$2.1 million
equivalent, excluding contingencies).  In isolated areas, where it is difficult to attract
teachers or where most students live too far away from the school, teacher houses and
dormitories will be constructed. The project will support the construction of teacher housing
for 44 remote schools and 12 student dormitories during the five year project period.
3.39   Student Scholarships. (US$3.3 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). The
Kanwil-managed scholarship scheme would be offered to 8,500 SMP students.
Quality
3.40   Teacher  Training  and  Support. (US$4.3  million  equivalent, excluding
contingencies). The project would finance formal and informal in-service training for SMP
teachers. Existing upgrading programs at the Open University and at the teacher training
institutes will be evaluated and new programs designed for those subjects still requiring
major upgrading support. Upgrading of existing teachers from their current degree (Dl and
D2) to the required D3 degree would be supported for 593 teachers through the redesigned
teacher upgrading programs. An additional 1,205 teachers would be able to participate in
shorter upgrading certificate programs, to allow them to teach in a subject different from
their current one. For 11,500 teachers, the project would support the in-service MGMP
program during the project period, while PKG Model C training would be available for
teachers in remote areas if required (up to 10% of all teachers). Additional training for guru
inti (key teachers) will be supported, as well as school cluster meetings for 1,093 school
principals.



24                   Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
3.41   Learning Materials. (US$3.3 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). For all
existing 1,093 SMP schools in the province, both public and private, packages of library
books and educational teaching materials would be provided under the project. School
principals and teachers would be able to decide which items they would buy, and
procurement will be carried out for the province overall at Kanwil level.
3.42   Contract Teachers. (US$1.5 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). On a
pilot basis, the project would support the hiring of up to 400 contract teachers for rural
schools in core academic areas, such as Bahasa Indonesia, Mathematics, Science Education
and English.
Management
3.43   Strengthening Education Management. (US$0.2 million equivalent, excluding
contingencies). Training would cover 22 staff from the Kanwil and 130 staff from the
Kandeps. At Kanwil and Kandep level, the emphasis would be on planning (including
micro-planning), policy analysis, monitoring, and evaluation and education data analysis and
dissemination. At sub-district level, training would focus on education data management.
At school level, training would help 2,186 principals and school administrators of all public
and private schools to enrich their skills in supporting teachers and students, developing
community participation and managing school facilities.
3.44  Information Management. (US$1.1 million equivalent, excluding contingencies).
The project would support the capacity of provincial and district education administration to
manage and efficiently use information, in light of the intended de-concentration of project
implementation.  Three information functions will be reviewed and  developed:  (a)
forecasting, planning and monitoring by Kanwil and Kandeps; (b) data processing by
Dikmenum and Kanwil; and (c) school education data management by Kandeps. The project
would provide technical assistance for the development of the functions, analytical and skills
training for staff, software and equipment.
LAMPUNG
Access
3.45   New School Construction. (US$11.8 million equivalent, excluding contingencies).
During the project period, 53 new 6-room schools will be built, adding 12,720 student places
and representing 13% of the needs. Remaining requirements will be provided through
financing from other donors (OECF), establishment of private schools and direct government
financing (APBN).
3.46   Alternative Equivalency Programs.  (US$2.8 million equivalent, excluding
contingencies). Support will be provided to establish 44 SMP Terbuka (open SMP), each
enrolling about 200 students, for a total of 8,800 students. The project would provide the
necessary books and equipment for each of the SMP Terbuka; it would also provide
motorcycles to allow teachers to visit the satellite sites served by the SMP mother schools
and which are often not easily reachable by public transportation.



Staff Appraisal Report                         25
3.47   Construction of Teacher Houses and Student Dormitories. (US$1.4 million
equivalent, excluding contingencies).  In isolated areas, where it is difficult to attract
teachers or where most students live too far away from the school, teacher houses and
dormitories will be constructed. The project will support the construction of teacher housing
for 27 remote schools and 11 student dormitories during the five year project period.
3.48   Student Scholarships. (US$3.3 million equivalent, excluding contingencies).
The Kanwil-managed scholarship scheme would be offered to 8,600 SMP students.
Quality
3.49   Teacher  Training  and  Support. (US$4.7  million  equivalent, excluding
contingencies). The project would finance formal and informal in-service training for SMP
teachers. Existing upgrading programs at the Open University and at the teacher training
institutes will be evaluated and new programs designed for those subjects still requiring
major upgrading support. Upgrading of existing teachers from their current degree (Dl and
D2) to the required D3 degree would be supported for 841 teachers through the redesigned
teacher upgrading programs. An additional 1,174 teachers would be able to participate in
shorter upgrading certificate programs, to allow them to teach in a subject different from
their current one. For 12,100 teachers, the project would support the in-service MGMP
program during the project period, while PKG Model C training would be available for
teachers in remote areas if required (up to 10% of all teachers). Additional training for guru
inti (key teachers) will be supported, as well as school cluster meetings for 1,176 school
principals.
3.50   Learning Materials. (US$3.5 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). For all
existing 1,179 SMP schools in the province, both public and private, packages of library
books and educational teaching materials would be provided under the project. School
principals and teachers would be able to decide which items they would buy, and
procurement will be carried out for the province overall at Kanwil level.
3.51   Contract Teachers. (US$0.5 million equivalent, excluding contingencies). On a
pilot basis, the project would support the hiring of up to 124 contract teachers for rural
schools in core academic areas, such as Bahasa Indonesia, Mathematics, Science Education
and English.
Management
3.52   Strengthening Education Management. (US$0.3 million equivalent, excluding
contingencies). Training would cover 22 staff from the Kanwil and 80 staff from the
Kandeps. At Kanwil and Kandep level, the emphasis would be on planning (including
micro-planning), policy analysis, monitoring, and evaluation and education data analysis and
dissemination. At sub-district level, training would focus on education data management.
At school level, training would help 2,352 principals and school administrators of all public



26                    Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
and private schools to enrich their skills in supporting teachers and students, developing
community participation and managing school facilities.
3.53   Information Management. (US$0.7 million equivalent, excluding contingencies).
The project would support the capacity of provincial and district education administration to
manage and efficiently use information, in light of the intended de-concentration of project
implementation.  Three information functions will be reviewed and developed:  (a)
forecasting, planning and monitoring by Kanwil and Kandeps; (b) data processing by
Dikmenum and Kanwil; and (c) school education data management by Kandeps. The project
would provide technical assistance for the development of the functions, analytical and skills
training for staff, software and equipment.
D.  PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
3.54   The economic analysis conducted for the project consisted of. (a) analysis of
educational demand and the rationale for public investment in junior secondary education;
(b) fiscal analysis; (c) review of alternatives; and (d) cost-benefit analysis. Details are
provided in Annex 1.
3.55   There are both efficiency and equity grounds for additional public intervention in
junior secondary education in Indonesia today. It is primarily the poor and near-poor (and
mostly those in rural areas) who are not enrolling in school and whose participation declined
in the late 1980s to early 1990s. One of the primary factors explaining the low demand is the
high direct costs of education. A second factor is indirect (opportunity) costs which
exacerbated the effect of high direct costs. Coupled with stagnant real wages in the I 980s
and the effects of cuts in public expenditure on basic education in the mid-I 980s (school
construction came to a virtual halt), these factors contributed to faltering demand. The past
two years have seen the reversal of these trends as enrollment rates have risen significantly
in all provinces.
3.56   Since investment in junior secondary education is desirable on both efficiency and
equity grounds, the key questions for the Government are the budgetary implications of the
expansion and how to expand the system. The budgetary implications of the expansion are
sizable (8.7 billion; see Annex 1), but estimation shows that the policy is attainable if the
economy continues to grow at the rate attained in recent decades, additional funds are made
available to junior secondary including external borrowing, and the private sector retains its
current significant share.
3.57   Assuming 6%  per annum  real growth of the budget, the project's incremental
recurrent costs will take from 2 to 4% of the educational budgets, depending on the province,
to support investments representing 22.4% of total requirements (See Table 3.1).



StaffAppraisal Report                            27
Table 3.1: World Bank Involvement Relative to Total Junior Secondary Expansion.
Total              To Be Financed By             World
Requested    World   OECF   APBN   Private          Bank
Student Places  Bank                                  as %
of Total
Aceh                  52,577      13,760   5,040    12,774   21,003      26.3
West Sumatra          45,895      14,040   5,760     9,600    16,495     30.6
Jambi                  32,525      9,400   2,880     8,400    11,845     28.9
South Sumatra         130,166     22,400   18.000    14,400   75,366      17.2
Lampung               99,457       21,520  21,240    13,200   43,497     21.6
Total                 360,620      81,120  52,920    58,374  168,206     22.4
3.58   The analysis of alternatives considered the role of the private sector in the expansion
program and the fiscal implications of mainly public expansions versus one which made
room for private expansion. The budgetary implications double in the second scenario (14.5
billion compared to 7.6 billion). There are additional merits to preserving the private sector.
First, given the current and projected surplus of teachers, a robust private sector is an
effective means for helping to clear the market for teachers. Second, Madrasah schools
(religious schools which currently enroll about 20 percent of junior secondary students) offer
access to junior secondary in small, poor communities and at a cost that is significantly lower
than even MOEC-supervised private schools. These schools also enroll a higher proportion
of girls than boys, reflecting the preference pattern of some families for non-secular
education. Third, maintaining the share of private schools at the junior secondary level
establishes the basis for sustaining the even larger share of private schools at the senior
secondary level (54 percent of enrollments in 1993/94).
3.59   Beyond the public/private alternatives, the Government has experimented with
alternative modes of delivering junior secondary education (in respect of the regular SMP
model). These include: SMP Kecil, SMP Terbuka and Paket B. While not entirely substitutes
for each other (or to the regular SMPs), and experimentation to improve their quality is still
ongoing, preliminary unit cost comparisons indicate that gains can be achieved by utilizing
these less costly alternative models ofjunior secondary education in rural and remote areas.
3.60   The economic rate of return for the project investment is estimated by province and
component (increasing access and enhancing quality, but excluding the management
component). The estimates are obtained by solving for the internal rate of return that equates
a stream of benefits and costs resulting from the investment over a thirty year horizon. The
benefits of the projects are derived from the increased numbers of students enrolled in junior
secondary in any given year, but also include the additional stream of students expected to
proceed to senior secondary and tertiary education. A monetary value of the benefits of each



28                   Sumatra Junior Secondary Educalion Project
stream of beneficiaries is estimated using the difference in wages between one level of
education and the next. Benefits will also accrue from investments in enhancing quality of
junior secondary. A benchmark assumption of a 15 percent additional wage premium earned
by a higher quality graduate is made. High returns were found for both quality and access
components, with returns on quality enhancements generally higher than for expansion of
access.
E.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION
Project Management
3.61   Provincial Project Implementation  Units (PPIU). The project would  be
implemented by Provincial Project Implementation Units in each of provincial capitals
(Banda Aceh, Padang, Jambi, Palembang and Bandar Lampung), and would be overseen by a
Central Program Coordination Unit at MOEC's Directorate General for Secondary Education
(Dikmenum) in Jakarta (see Annex 8).  Each Kanwil would establish within their
administrative structure a Provincial Project Implementation Unit preferably headed by the
provincial Head of Division of Secondary Education (Kabid Dikmenum), assisted by a
Procurement Officer, a Disbursement Officer and a Teacher Development Officer. The
PPIU would be overseen by a Provincial Project Advisory Committee which would be
chaired by the head of MOEC provincial office (Kakanwil), and would include the provincial
directors of Secondary Education, Planning, Procurement, and Finance, representatives of
Dinas and Public Work, and a representative of the provincial office of MORA. At
negotiations, assurances were received from the Government that it would: (a) establish and
staff the five Provincial Project Implementation Units in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) establish the Central Project Advisory Committees with the
composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, no later than March 1, 1997 and
maintain them until the completion of the project (See para 6.01 [b]and [c]).
3.62   The PPIU would be responsible for managing the implementation of various project
components through the services of Kanwil and Kandep sectors, and would be responsible
for preparing an annual implementation plan and budget to be submitted to the CPCU. The
PPIU would also be in charge of producing annual implementation performance reports. At
the Kandep level, implementation would be insured by a Task Force headed by the Kandep
Director (Kakandep) assisted by the head of planning section. Kandeps will be involved in
the following project activities:  (a) selection of contract teacher candidates; (b)
determination of school locations; (c) construction monitoring; (d) supervision of teacher
training activities; and (e) selection of scholarship candidates. Appropriate budget support to
carry out these activities will be made available to each Kandep.
3.63   Central Program Coordination Unit (CPCU). To support the junior secondary
education expansion program, Dikmenum will establish within its central structure a Central
Program Coordination Unit headed by the Director of Dikmenum, assisted by a National
Advisor, an International Advisor, a Procurement Officer, a Disbursement Officer, a
Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, and project-specific Liaison Officers for the different
Junior Secondary Education Projects. The CPCU will insure that the overall and annual



StaffAppraisal Report                           29
project implementation plans and budgets prepared by the PPIUs be in accordance with
project objectives. The CPCU will also supervise and provide broad technical guidance to
the PPIUs of all secondary education projects. At negotiations, Government assurances were
received that it will: (a) maintain the Central Program Coordination Unit in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and (b) establish the Central Program Advisory
Committee with the composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, no later than
March 1, 1997, and maintain them until the completion of the project.
3.64   The Central Program Advisory Committee would facilitate CPCU consultation and
coordination on major project implementation issues. It would include senior officials from
the MOEC, BAPPENAS, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Religious Affairs, Ministry of
Home Affairs, State Ministry for Administration Reform (MENPAN), the State Civil Service
Commission (BAKN), and all five project Kakanwils.
3.65   Implementation Schedule. The proposed project would be implemented over a
period of five years, the completion date being March 31, 2002. The detailed schedules of
implementation of all project activities (Annex 12), costs by year and components (Annex
13) procurement (Annex 15), and disbursement (Annex 16) will serve as the basis for project
implementation and will be updated annually by the CPCU and the PPIUs. The closing date
of the project is September 30, 2002.
3.66   Technical Assistance. A total of 1,215 person/month will be required at a base cost
of US$4.8 million. In all project components, the technical assistance requirements would
be satisfied largely (90 percent) by national consultants. International consultants (10
percent) would be recruited only in areas in which local expertise is limited. International
expert assistance is designed as institution building particularly at the province level rather
than "substitutive" services directly rendered as part of project implementation activities (see
Annex 14).
3.67   Project Launch Workshop. A project launch workshop will be conducted to
facilitate project start-up activities, familiarize PPIU and CPCU staff and Kanwil project-
associated staff with project and Bank procedures--especially for procurement--and
guarantee thereby adequate and timely project implementation. This workshop has a crucial
importance for project implementation due to the province-based management structure and
the incipient experience with project-related Bank requirements at province level.
3.68   Project Implementation  Plan.   For the  day-by-day  practice  of project
implementation CPCU, PPIU and Kandep staff will rely upon the Project Implementation
Plan. The PIP will describe in detail and in concrete terms the methodology, procedures and
multiple steps of project implementation and project monitoring. The PIP is expected to: (a)
become the key and uniform point of reference for all levels of project management; (b)
provide users with ready answer for problem solving; and (c) offset the relatively insufficient
lack of experience with project management at the provincial level.



30                   Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Supervision
3.69   Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring of project implementation will be the
responsibility of the PPIUs at the provincial level, and of the CPCU at the central level,
which has a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer. The implementation progress of the project
will be assessed through monitoring activities and formative evaluation using the
performance indicators as indicated in para 3.2 and Annex 10, and will be carried out by an
independent agency or party. The above indicators will also form the basis of technical
supervision by the Bank. The supervision plan is summarized in Annex 11. Data from the
detailed performance indicators for monitoring and evaluation (Annex 10) would be
incorporated in the annual progress reports prepared by the Government and submitted to the
Bank. At negotiations, Government assurances were received that it would implement
policies and procedures to enable adequate project moniitorinig and evaluation in accordance
with agreed indicators (See para 6.01 [e]).
3.70   Annual Implementation Reviews. Reviews would take place each project year to:
(a) analyze the previous year's performance and budget execution against project objectives
and indicators; (b) analyze the proposed work plan and budget for the following year; (c)
discuss adjustments to be made in the project's implementation schedule; and (d) analyze the
results of the project evaluation. The proposed work plan and budget for the following year
would have to be previously defined at the central and provincial levels and contain a
detailed description of targets and planned activities. Plans for civil works would specify
type and schedule of construction and provide evidence of ownership or donation of school
or dormitory site and of adequate assignment of school teachers and staff. At negotiations,
Government assurances were received that it will: (a) prepare and present to the Bank annual
reports on budgets for the next year, by October 31 of each year, starting in 1997; and (b)
prepare and present to the Bank annual progress reports by June 30, starting 1998, of project
implementation of the previous fiscal year (See para 6.01 [g], and [h]).
3.71   Mid-term  Review.  A comprehensive mid-term review would be conducted to
assess project performance and initial impact in light of project objectives and expressed in
project indicators and Government policies in addition to review activities normally covered
under annual implementation reviews. The mid-term review would have a strong focus on
the formulation and carrying out of sectoral policies, particularly for institutional
strengthening at both province and district levels, and on redefining the component or
element where major problems were positively identified. The PPIU and the CPCU would
be responsible for hiring consultants and preparing the final terms of reference for the mid-
term review, based on experience accumulated under the project and the final or preliminary
results of studies, satisfactory to the Bank, and for preparing the report with
recommendations. At negotiations, Government assurances were received that it will
prepare and present to the Bank a mid-term report on project implementation and plans for
the remaining years of the project, by June 30, 1999; and review the report together with the
Bank by October 31, 1999. (See para 6.01 [i]).
3.72   Technical Audits. Dikmenum has the overall responisibility to monitor all project
activities and routine monitoring would be done through annual reviews. However, because
a large number of contracts would be financed under SOE procedures, an independent,



StaffAppraisal Report                            31
qualified firm with external technical assistance would be hired to conduct technical audits
of key project activities. The audits would cover activities in progress and post reviews of
completed actions to examine whether implementation of the various project components are
technically appropriate and to recommend corrective measures if necessary. At negotiations,
Government assurances were received that technical audits would be carried out every year
during the implementation of the project in accordance with terms of reference and in a
manner acceptable to the Bank, and that copies of the technical audit reports will be
furnished to the Bank for comments no later than three months after the end of each Fiscal
Year (See para 6.01 [f]).
3.73   Completion Report. A project implementation completion report is due no later
than six months after the Closing Date of the loan or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank. The report to be compiled by MOEC is
expected to provide a critical overview of project inputs, processes and outcomes. More
precisely the completion report will summarize (a) project results and impact on the basis of
indicators; (b) key project activities and management; (c) institutional lessons learned from
project implementation; (d) the project's financial status; (e) implementation issues and
recommendations; and (f) the plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the
objectives of the project. At negotiations, Government assurances were received that it will
furnish to the Bank within six months after the project closing date a plan designed to ensure
the continued effectiveness of the project (See para 6.01 U]).



32                 Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
4. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS
A.    PROJECT COSTS
4.1    Summary of Costs. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$144.0 million
equivalent (Rp 335.7 billion), including contingencies and identifiable taxes and duties. Tables
4.1 a, 4.1 b, 4.2a and 4.2b summarize the estimated costs by project component, category of
expenditure and by implementing agency, respectively. Detailed project costs are given in
Annex 13.
4.2    Bases of Cost Estimates. Baseline costs are estimated at June 1996 prices. Costs of
construction of school facilities are based on the GOI standard unit costsa per square meter
for such facilities and on review of costs of comparable facilities under other projects.
Equipment costs are based on recent costs available from other education projects. Costs of
educational materials are based on prices currently being paid for similar items under ongoing
education projects. Costs of domestic and international consultants are in line with recent
education and training projects for appropriately qualified experts. Costs of in-country training
(in-service teacher training, management training, seminars and workshops) are derived from
experiences under the ongoing secondary education and management project and vary widely
depending on the type of training being given and its duration and location, and they are in line
with the government guidelines. Scholarship grants are about US$130 per scholarship-year.
Operational costs are based on standard government allowances for honoraria, travel, per diem
and consumable materials.
4.3    Contingency Allowances. The project consists of a large number of items of small
monetary value. As the exact number of these items is not vital to the success of the project, no
physical contingencies have been included. A contingency allowance of US$17.9 million
equivalent represents 14 percent of the baseline costs for estimated price increases. Price
contingencies have been calculated at 8.7 percent per year for local costs and at 2.4 percent for
foreign costs.
4.4    Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$28.4 million,
representing about 20 percent of total project costs, and are based on a detailed analysis of
expenditures under similar projects in Indonesia. The foreign exchange percentages for the
major expenditure categories are estimated as follows: (a) civil works and furniture - 30
percent; (b) equipment - 70 percent; (c) international consultants - 80 percent; (d) in-country
training, and educational materials - 15 percent; and (e) domestic consultants and operating
costs - 10 percent.
a GOI issues and updates annually the standard construction unit costs per square meter for every district.



Staff Appraisal Report                                      33
4.5     Taxes and Duties. Taxes and duties are estimated at Rp 14.3 billion (US$6.2 million
equivalent) based on the current 10 percent value added tax on all contracts for civil works,
equipment and other goods and tax exemption of educational books. This would be financed
fully by the Government of Indonesia.
4.6     Recurrent Costs.  Under the proposed project additional recurrent costs would be
generated by the recruitment of additional teachers, maintenance of new school facilities and
running of the new schools. The annual additional recurrent costs generated by these items are
estimated from Rp 1.8 billion (for Jambi) to Rp 6.0 billion (for Lampung) at January 1996
prices, for the different provinces, after the project is completed. These represent between 2%
and 4% of the education budgets (see Annex 2 for details). Thus, the long-term recurrent cost
implications of the project in all provinces are small and manageable.
Table 4.1a: Summary of Project Costs by Component and Implementing Agency
(US$ million)
DI        West                South                Central
Component                             Aceh     Sumatra   Jambi   Sumatra    Lampung    PCU             Total
Increasing Access to JSE
Regular Schools                       8.7        9.2       4.5       15.6       11.8        -         49.8
Altemative Equivalency Programs       1.4        1.3        1.5       1.8        2.8        -          8.8
Scholarship Program                   2.1        2.5        1.4       3.3        3.3        -         12.6
Student& Teacher Accommodation        1.1        1.8        0.9       2.1        1.4        -          7.3
Subtotal                           13          14.8       8        22.8        19.3       -
Improving Quality
Teach.rTraining                       3.4        4.6        1.7       4.3        4.7       0.5        19.2
Tools for Effective Teaching          1.9        2.1        1.4       3.3        3.5        -          12.2
Contract Teachers                     0.6        0.6        0.6       1.5        0.5        -          3.8
Subtotal                            L2         73         371       9.1         8.7                  3
Strengthening Education Management
Education Management Capacity         0.2        0.2        0.1       0.2        0.3        -           1.0
Information Management                0.8        0.9        0.6       1.1        0.7        -          4.1
Subtotal                             10         1.        0.7       11          1.        -           i.
Supporting Project Management
Project Management                    1.0        1.0        0.8       1.0        0.9       1.5         6.2
Monitoring and Evaluation             0.2        0.2        0.2       0.2        0.1       0.2         1.1
Subtotal                             1.2        1.2       10 L2                 10      :Li           71
Total Base Costs /a                 14        24A        13.7      MA                    2 2        1261
Physical Contingencies                 0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                    3.0        3.5        2.0       4.9        4.3       0.2         17.9
Total Project Costs                24.4       2179       15.7      3931       341        24         144.0
% of Total Project Costs           17%        19%        11%      27%         24%        2%         100%
/a Include identifiable duties and taxes of US$6.2 million equivalent.
Figures may differ slightly due to rounding.



34                       Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Table 4.1b: Summary of Project Costs by Component /a
(Rp.                        (US$                %        %
Billion)                    million)           Foreign    Total
Component                              Local    Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange   Base
Costs
Increasing Access to JSE
RegularSchools                         81.1      35.1     116.2       34.8   15.0      49.8      30
Alternative Equivalency Programs        17.4      3.1      20.5        7.4     1.4      8.8       15
Scholarship Program                    29.3       0.0      29.3       12.6    0.0      12.6       0
Student& Teacher Accommodation          11.8      5.1      16.9        5.1    2.2       7.3      30
Subtotal                             139.6      43.3    182.9       59.9   18.6      78.5       24        62
Improving Quality
TeacherTraining                        37.8       6.8      44.6       16.3    2.9      19.2      15
Tools for Effective Teaching           24.2       4.3      28.5       10.4    1.8      12.2      15
Contract Teachers                       9.0       0.0       9.0        3.8    0.0       3.8       0
Subtotal                              71.0      11.1     82.1       30.5    4.7      35.2       13 21
Strengthening Education Management
Education Management Capacity           2.1       0.3       2.4        0.9    0.1       1.0      15
Information Management                  4.7       4.8       9.5        2.0    2.1       4.1      50
Subtotal                                         5J.     11.9        29      2.2      51        43        4
Supporting Project Management
Project Management                     11.1       3.5      14.6        4.7     1.5      6.2      24
Monitoring and Evaluation               2.3        0.2      2.5        1.0    0.1       1.1      10
Subtotal                              13.4      31       17.1        5.7      1.6    723        22
Total Base Costs/b                   230.8      632    2940          99.0   27.1    126.1      22        10
Physical Contingencies                   0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0                 0
Price Contingencies                     38.7       3.0      41.7        16.6    1.3      17.9      7         14
Total Project Costs                  269.5      66.2    335.7       115.6   28.4     144.0      20       114
/a Some totals may not add up due to rounding.
/b Include identifiable duties and taxes of US$6.2 million equivalent.



StaffAppraisal Report                                       35
Table 4.2a: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
and by Implementing Agency
(US$ million)
Category of Expenditure        DI        West                  South                  Central
Aceh      Sumatra   Jambi   Sumatra    Lampung           PCU       Total
Civil Works                    8.9        10.0        4.9       16.1         12.0        -        51.9
Equipment & Furniture           1.5        1.6        0.8        2.3         1.6         -          7.8
Motorcycles /a                 0.01        0.05       0.04       0.1         0.1         -         0.3
Education Materials            2.5         2.6        2.0        4.0         4.7         -         15.8
In-country Training            4.0         5.2        2.2        5.1         5.5         -        22.0
Technical Assistance:
Domestic Consultants         0.5        0.6        0.5        0.6         0.5         0.7        3.4
Int'l. Consultants           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         1.4        1.4
Scholarships                   2.1         2.5        1.4        3.3         3.3         -         12.6
Contract Teachers              0.6         0.6        0.6        1.5         0.5         -          3.8
Operating Costs /b             0.6         0.6        0.6        0.6         0.5        0.1         3.0
Recurrent Cost:
Terbuka operations           0.7         0.6        0.7        0.8         1.3         -         4.1
Total Base Cost              21.4       24.4        13.7      34.4        30.0        2.2       126.1
Physical Contingencies         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies            3.0        3.5        2.0        4.9         4.3        0.2        17.9
Total Project Costs /c       24.4       27.9        15.7      39.3         34.3       24        144.0
% of Total                17%        19%        11%        27%         24%         2%        100%
/a Reserved procurement.
/b Include expenditures for travel, per diem, honoraria and consumable materials necessary for project implementation.
/c Include identifiable duties and taxes of USS6.2 million equivalent.
Some totals may not add up due to rounding.



36                       Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Table 4.2b: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
%        Total
Category of Expenditure            (Rp. Billion)                    (USS million)             Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign      Total         Local      Foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
Civil Works                    84.7       36.3      121.0          36.3        15.6     51.9       30         41
Equip. & Furniture             10.0        8.1       18.1           4.3         3.5      7.8       45          6
Motorcycles /a                  0.4        0.3        0.7           0.2         0.1      0.3       50          -
Educational Materials          31.0        5.8      36.8           13.3         2.5      15.8      16         13
In-country Training            43.6        7.7      51.3           18.7         3.3     22.0       15         17
Technical Assistance:
Domestic Consultants         7.2       0.8        8.0            3.1        0.3       3.4       10          3
International Consultants    0.7       2.5        3.2            0.3        1.1       1.4       80          1
Scholarships                   29.3        0.0       29.3          12.6         0.0     12.6        0         10
Contract Teachers               9.0        0.0        9.0           3.8         0.0      3.8        0          3
Operating Costs /b              6.3        0.7        7.0           2.7         0.3      3.0       10          2
Recurrent Costs:
Terbukaoperations              8.6       1.0        9.6            3.7        0.4       4.1       10         3
Total Base Costs/c          230 8       63.2      2940                       221      12U        22        IQQ
Physical Contingencies      0.0        0.0        0.0            0.0        0.0       0.0       0          0
Price Contingencies        38.7        3.0       41.7           16.6        1.3      17.9       7         14
Total Project Costs          269.5      66.2      335.           115.6       28.4    144.0       20        114
/a Reserved procurement.
/b Include expenditures for travel, per diem, honoraria and consumable materials necessary for project implementation.
/c Include identifiable duties and taxes of US$6.2 million equivalent



Staff Appraisal Report                          37
B. FINANCING
4.7   The total project cost of US$144.0 million equivalent would be financed by a proposed
Bank loan of US$98.0 million equivalent, covering 71 percent of total project costs excluding
taxes (99 percent of foreign and 61 percent of local expenditures). The Government would
finance the remaining costs of US$46.0 million equivalent including taxes (32 percent of total
project costs including taxes), as detailed in Table 4.3 below. The provincial budget allocation
would be done through annual provincial-level development budget.
Table 4.3: Financing Plan (US$ million)
IBRD
GOI       IBRD         Total Share (/)
Civil Works                             13.8        42.5        56.3         75
Equipment & Furniture                    1.5         6.8         8.3         82
Motorcycles                              0.3         0.0         0.3           0
Educational Materials                    3.8        14.5        18.3         79
Training                                13.1        13.1        26.2         50
Scholarships                             6.2         6.2        12.4         50
Contract Teachers                        0.9         3.7         4.6         80
Consultants' Services & Studies          0.2         5.4         5.6         96
Operating Costs /a                       0.0         3.6         3.6        100
Recurrent Costs                          5.2         0.0         5.2           0
Unallocated                              1.0         2.2         3.2
Total                      46.0        98.0       144.0         68
/a Includes expenditures for travel, per diem, allowances and consumable materials, but excluding salaries,
necessary for project implementation.
C. PROCUREMENT
4.8   The procurement division of the Kanwil Office in each province would be in charge of
procurement under the general guidance of the designated project manager (Pimpro) in each
province. Whenever necessary (such as in the case of conducting ICB), the procurement
division at the provincial level could request the assistance of specialized expertise from the
MOEC Directorate for Secondary Education (Dikmenum). The construction activities for the
proposed project would be supervised from Dikmenum by a local consulting architect/engineer
who would be hired under the Project. This person would be a technical link between local
monitors in the procurement division in each Kanwil, the CPCU in MOEC in Jakarta and the
Bank, including in particular its procurement staff in RSI. He/she would ensure, inter alia, that



38                 Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
the bidding procedures and contract awards are implemented in accordance with the agreed
rules and procedures. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.4.
4.9   The loan proceeds would be used to finance procurement of works, goods and services
under all project components. All procurement of works and goods would be done in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
(dated January 1995 and revised in January 1996) for the following:
(a)    Civil Works (estimated total value US$58.0 million equivalent). Civil works
would comprise construction of over 300 new six-classroom schools, teacher
houses and student dormitories, largely in rural areas. Individual contracts for
specific location, which are expected to average about US$200,000 equivalent
each, are not expected to attract foreign bidders. Because of the large number
of small size contracts in rural areas, and the need to decentralize management
of sub-projects, all works would be contracted by national competitive bidding
(NCB), advertised nationally and following government's procedures and
regulations acceptable to the Bank. Small works estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$6.0 million, may be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors.
(b)   Equipment and Educational Materials (estimated total value US$21.7
million equivalent). Equipment includes, inter alia, computers and peripheral
for information management at provincial and district offices and selected
schools. Educational materials include teaching aids and simple kits for all
subjects for junior secondary schools, library books and modules for SMP
Terbuka. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods except for library books
and modules would be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost US$200,000
equivalent or more. Educational materials and equipment packages valued at or
above US$200,000 would be awarded through international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures, and using the Bank's standard bidding documents
for procurement of goods, which have already been used under the ongoing
Second Secondary Education and Management Project (Ln. 3158-IND).
Locally manufactured goods would be granted a domestic margin of preference
of 15 percent of the CIF price or the import taxes and duties which a non-
exempt importer would have to pay, whichever is lower. Contract packages
valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent and up to an aggregate amount of
US$5.5 million equivalent would be awarded through NCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Contract packages for goods (except library books,
modules and other published materials) valued at less than US$50,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$2.4 million
equivalent, may be purchased through national shopping on the basis of a
minimum of three price quotations. In view of the wide variety of available
books for school libraries and the relatively small number of copies ordered
from each book, contracts for supply of library and reading books to the
schools, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$5.3 million equivalent,
will be awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures with at least three



Staff Appraisal Report                           39
price quotations, following government procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Because of their availability from single sources only, library books, modules
and earlier published educational materials, which are of a proprietary nature.
up to an aggregate amount of US$2.5 million equivalent, may, with the Bank's
prior agreement, be procured from publishers or local distributors through
direct contracting.
(c)    Furniture (total estimated value US$5.6 million equivalent). Most furniture
contracts are not expected to exceed US$200,000 equivalent. They would be
procured through NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Furniture contracts
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent may be purchased through national
shopping procedures with at least three price quotations up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.2 million equivalent.
(d)    Training (estimated total value US$26.7 million equivalent). In-service
teacher training (PKG Model C and MGMP), guru inti training, upgrading to
D3 program for underqualified social science and Bahasa Indonesia teachers,
certificate training, management training for staff of the project provinces.
districts, and school principals and deputies, seminars and workshops, would
be organized and contracted out in accordance with government procedures
acceptable to the Bank, using standard forms of contract acceptable to the
Bank.
(e)    Scholarships (estimated total value US$12.6 million equivalent). Scholarships
would be awarded in accordance with the criteria agreed with the Bank and the
Government administrative procedures.
(f)    Contract teachers (estimated total value US$4.6 million equivalent) would be
selected in accordance with the procedures and criteria acceptable to the Bank.
(g)    Technical Assistance (estimated total value US$5.6 million equivalent).
Domestic  and  intemational  consultants  for  project  implementation,
procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and studies, would be selected in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines, "Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency" (Washington, D.C.,
August 1981). All training and consultancy contracts would use the Bank's
standard form of contract for consultants.
(h)    Project operating costs totaling US$3.7 million would be met following
Government administrative procedures, acceptable to the Bank.
4.10   Procurement Review. The following are the guidelines regarding procurement
review:
(a)    All contracts for goods valued at or over US$200,000 equivalent, and the first
five civil works contracts in each fiscal year in each of the five project



40                 Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
provinces would be subject to prior review by the Bank, whereas all other
contracts would be subject to random post review.
(b)    All individual consultants' contracts valued at or over US$50,000 equivalent
and contracts with consulting firms valued at or over US$100,000 equivalent
would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Other consultants' contracts
would be subject to random post-review. However, all terms of reference and
single-source selection of consultants would be subject to prior review.
(c)    Annual training plans for each year would be submitted to the Bank for review
and discussion. Training contracts would be subject to random post-review.
(d)    Annual implementation plans and budgets would be subject to annual reviews
and discussions between the Government and the Bank.
4.11   There would be no contract exceeding US$5 million under this project. Roughly 62
percent of civil works contracts and 48 percent of goods contracts procured under the project
are estimated to be subject to prior review. The relatively low proportion covered by prior
review is due to the large number of contracts expected to cover small amount as shown in
Annex 15; all these contracts are the responsibility of the PPIUs. The procurement consultant
will help ensure that the bidding procedures and contract awards are implemented in
accordance with the agreed rules and procedures. For contracts not covered by prior review,
post-review of such contracts would be carried out by RSI staff supported by the procurement
consultant in the CPCU. For new implementing agencies, one out of five such contracts would
be post-reviewed for the first year of implementation, followed by one out of 20 such contracts
in succeeding years.



StaffAppraisal Report                                   41
Table 4.4 Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Methods                       Total IncA
ICB      NCB       Other/a       N.B.F.  Contingencies
Civil works                                    52.0         6.0                      58.0
(39.0)       (4.5)                   (43.5)
Equipment and educational          6.0         5.5          10.2                    21.7
materials                        (5.5)       (4.1)        (8.2)                   (17.8)
Furniture                                      4.4          1.2                      5.6
(3.4)       (0.8)                    (4.2)
Motorcycles                                                             0.3         0.3
(0.0)       (0.0)
Training                                                    26.7                    26.7
(13.4)                  (13.4)
Scholarships                                                12.6                     12.6
(6.3)                   (6.3)
Contract teachers                                           4.6                      4.6
(3.7)                   (3.7)
Consultants' services and studies                           5.6                      5.6
(5.4)                   (5.4)
Operating costs                                             3.7                      3.7
(3.7)                   (3.7)
Recurrent costs                                                         5.2          5.2
(0.0)       (0.0)
Totals                6.0         61.9         70.6        5.5         144.0
(5.5)      (46.5)       (46.0)      (0.0)        (98.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
N.B.F. - Not Bank Financed.
/a Includes national shopping, direct contracting, selection of consultants following the Bank
guidelines, "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing
Agency" (Washington, D.C., August 1981), training and workshops, scholarships, contract
teachers and operating costs using government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.



42                 Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
D. DISBURSEMENTS
4.12   The proposed loan of US$98.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of
six years (Annex 16). The project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002 and the loan
would be closed six months later on September 30, 2002. The disbursement schedule is based
on the implementation schedule and the standard disbursement profile for education projects in
Indonesia. Disbursements estimated for FY97 are based on the proposed initial deposit into the
project Special Account and replenishment. Disbursements would be made as follows:
Category                 Amount        % of expenditures to be financed
(USS million)
(1) Civil works                        42.5       75%
(2) Goods                              21.3       100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
(excluding motorcycles)                        of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost), and 65% of expenditures for
other items procured locally.
(3) Training                           13.1       50%
(4) Operating costs                     3.6       100%
(5) Scholarships                        6.2       50%
(6) Contract teacher services           3.7       80%
(7) Consultants' services & studies
(a) Contracted by Project Provinces   4.7       100%
(b) Other                             0.7       80%
(8) Unallocated                         2.2
Total                    98.0
4.13   Disbursement from the loan for all contracts for goods valued at or above US$200,000
equivalent per contract, the first five contracts in each Project Province and in any fiscal year,
and consultant firm contracts valued at or above US$100,000 equivalent and individual
consultant contracts valued at or above US$50,000 equivalent per contract, would be made
against full documentation. All other disbursements would be made against statements of
expenditure procedures for which relevant documents would be retained by responsible
agencies and made available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions. In order to
facilitate disbursements, a Special Account in the amount up to US$6.0 million, which is based
on the need for funds to cover the expenditures on average for four months, would be
established at Bank Indonesia. This account would be maintained by the Directorate General
of Budget, Ministry of Finance. The special account would be used for all eligible foreign and
local expenditures. Replenishment applications to the Special Account will be made on a
monthly basis, or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been used, whichever comes first.



Staff Appraisal Report                          43
E. ACCOUNTS, AUDITS AND REPORTS
4.14   Designated government authorities would establish separate project accounts for all
project expenditures, to be maintained by each of the implementing agencies (Kanwils in DI
Aceh, West Sumatra. Jambi, South Sumatra and Lampung, and MOEC) for their respective
expenditures in accordance with sound accounting practices. Accounts and documentation
supporting the Statement of Expenditures and Special Account would be maintained separately
by DG Budget, MOF. Consolidated project account statements would be prepared annually as
part of the project progress report by the CPCU in MOEC, based on the provincial project
accounts statements.  Annex 1 7 provides sample reporting formats for project account
statements.  The consolidated project account statements would be audited annually in
accordance with Bank guidelines, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit
report would contain a separate opinion by the auditors on1 the statement of expenditures used
as a basis for disbursement. Certified copies of the consolidated project accounts statements for
each fiscal year, together with the auditor's statement, would be furnished to the Bank as soon
as available, but not later than nine months after the end of each government fiscal year.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the project accounts including
the special account and SOEs would be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank and audit reports would be furnished to the Bank within nine months of the end of
the Government's fiscal year.
4.15   The CPCU would monitor progress in project implementation and submit annual
progress reports to the Bank. Within six months after the project completion, the CPCU would
submit an implementation completion report to the Bank.



44                 Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1    The benefits of the proposed project derive from meeting the high demand for junior
secondary education where it exists and stimulating demand where it may be constrained due to
low income and/or credit market failures. The expected outcomes of the investment are: (a)
increased numbers of higher quality junior secondary graduates; (b) more students at higher
levels of education as approximately 80 percent of junior secondary graduates proceed to the
next level and another 30 percent continue to tertiary education; (c) poverty reduction and
greater distribution gains in the economy as a result of focused junior secondary education
improvement for low income and rural students; (d) externalities derived from girls' education
such as lower fertility, increased prenatal care utilization, their families' improved health and
nutrition status and children's higher educational attainment; (e) greater professional
qualification of teaching and managerial staff; and (f) better quality data on students' and
schools' performance.
5.2    Outcomes (a) and (b) above are expected to result from the increased access and
enhanced quality that the project investment will ensure. Table 5.1 below presents the stream
of beneficiaries as a result of access and quality interventions over the next ten years (see
Annex I for details).
Table 5.1: Number of Beneficiaries (Students) of Project Investments
(stream over 10 years)
Component
Access             Quality              Total
DI Aceh             13,760             169,600            183,360
West Sumatra        14,040             217,419            231,459
Jambi                9,400             118,462            127,862
South Sumatra       22,400             282,601            305,001
Lampung             21,520             285,004            306,526
Total               81,120           1,073,086          1,154,206
Impact on Poverty
5.3   Those not enrolled in junior secondary today are predominantly from the lowest four
income deciles. The project will reach these poor and near-poor through its poverty-targeted
sub-components. Approximately 32,600 scholarships will be awarded to poor (and capable)
students. A total of 53,520 school places, will be built in rural areas, with priority given to the
poorest villages. Another 27,600 places in alternative programs, which are free to parents, will
benefit areas where direct and opportunity costs are highest. In all, the project will contribute to
offsetting the geographical and financial obstacles barring poorer children from junior
secondary schools, thus reducing social inequality in education access.



Staff Appraisal Report                            45
Impact on Women
5.4    Enrollment figures by province reveal no great disparities between male and female
participation in junior secondary education in the four project provinces. In 1994/95, females
accounted for 48-50 percent of total enrollment in the provinces and about 49 percent of the
cohort populations. Kabupaten-level data suggest that there may be somewhat more significant
disparities in certain pockets of the project provinces, particularly in rural areas. Distance from
home to school is one of the main reasons for local disparities- parents are often reluctant to
allow their daughters to travel far to school. The following components can be expected to
improve female access to junior secondary schools:
(a)    Expansion of school places in rural areas, where female participation is lowest;
(b)    Significant expansion of the junior secondary schools in rural communities;
(c)    Expansion of SMP Terbuka;
(d)    Scholarships to low-income students, with priority given to girls; and
(e)    Quality improvements at private schools, including Madrasahs which usually
have a higher female enrollment.
5.5    Although these actions can be expected to continue closing the remaining gaps between
male and female participation, progress should be monitored throughout the life of the project.
Impact on the Environment
5.6    The project would have no direct environmental effects and is classified as a Category
C project. The proposed project would positively effect the environment indirectly through
greater emphasis on environmental concerns in teacher training, the content of library books,
and the development of science education that makes students more aware of their natural
world.
B. RISKS
5.7    The main risks associated with the proposed project are:
a)    Private sector participation in junior secondary may decline in absolute or
relative terms iw'hich would have significant budgetary implications for the
public sector. If the share of the private sector in JSE enrollment declines but
remains at its current absolute level of about 3 million students nationally
(which means a decline in relative share from the current 40 percent to about 20
percent), the budgetary shortfall in the next five years would be twice the
shortfall if the private sector retains its 40 percent share (see Annex 1, Section
11 for details). Furthermore, if private enrollment is phased out (except for
enrollment in religious schools), the budgetary shortfall in the next five years
would be three times the level of shortfall if the private sector continues its
significant role. The risk of the decline in the private sector participation is



46                  Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
partly mitigated by the involvement of project advisory committees at all levels
which represent stakeholders interests. This risk would also be mitigated by the
involvement of project steering committees at the central and provincial levels,
and the participation of the MOEC Directorate for private education in these
committees.
b)     The quality improvement component of the project may prove to be costlier and
take longer than initially planned, thus postponing or reducing its expected
benefits. The risks from the labor market side lie in not rewarding higher
quality graduates with a sufficiently high wage premium to generate the
estimated economic rate of return of the quality component of the project: the
base case estimate of the economic rate of return assumes that higher quality
graduates will reap a 10 percent additional wage premium in the labor market.
This generates a rate of return to quality ranging from 15 percent for Lampung
to 24 percent for Jambi (see Annex 1, Section IV).  Sensitivity analysis
indicates that a 5 percent (versus 10 percent) quality wage premium will reduce
the rate of return to 17 percent in Jambi, for example.
c)    Implementation by PIUs in the provincial and district offices operating in an
institutional environment still in transition to less centralized procedures. The
issue is to what extent local management can successfully implement these
provincial projects when budgets and all incentive systems, particularly in
personnel management, are under central control.
d)     The lack of, or limited capacity at the provincial and district offices to manage
all aspects of the project implementation process without previous experience
with Bank requirements and procedures.
5.8    The proposed project would reduce the risks of:
a)    private decline by re-enforcing the mechanisms for school mapping in the
project provinces, so as to avoid construction of public schools in the catchment
areas of existing private schools, and by providing support to private schools
(teacher training, library books and teaching aids) to increase their role in the
system and including the Directorate of Private Education in the Central and
Provincial Project Steering Committees;
b)    slower quality improvement by using training programs which have already a
long, positive track-record and supporting further improvement of these
programs (such as PKG for teacher training and the MOEC program for
teacher-librarian training); providing the PPIUs with detailed Terms of
Reference;
c)    ongoing deconcentration by confirming assurances from the Government that it
is committed towards the deconcentration of responsibilities, and that it will set
up: (a) Project Implementation Units in each project province to manage the
project at provincial level in coordination with Kandeps (district offices); and



Staff Appraisal Report                            47
(b) a Central Project Coordination Unit designed to provide technical assistance
and to monitor and assess project implementation.
d)    insufficient implementation experience by providing assistance (launch seminar
and training, distribution of project implementation handbooks, coordination by
CPCU, national and international consultants) to the PPIUs; establishing
criteria for inter- and intra-provincial equitable distribution of poverty-targeted
components; and provision of regular feedback from World Bank supervision
missions.
C.    SUSTAINABILITY
5.9    The fiscal impact of the project on the four provinces is estimated below (see Annex 1,
Section II for details). The estimates are based on the following assumptions: (a) the education
budget in each province will increase at the national historical growth rate of GDP (6 percent
per annum in real terms); and (b) the share of the junior secondary education budget out of the
total provincial education budget would also have to increase during the capital-intensive
phase.



48                 Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS
6.01   During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a) select locations for the construction of schools, teacher houses and dormitories,
employ contract teachers, award scholarships, and select candidates for
management training in accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank (See para.
3.4, 3.6 and 3.7);
(b) establish and staff the Central Program Coordination Unit and the five Provincial
Project Implementation Units no later than March 1, 1997, in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and maintain them until the completion
of the project (See para. 3.61);
(c) establish the Provincial Project Advisory Committees in the five provinces and the
Central Program Advisory Committee by March 1, 1997, with members and terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank (See para. 3.61);
(d) implement policies and procedures to enable adequate project monitoring and
evaluation in accordance with agreed indicators (See para. 3.69);
(e) prepare and present to the Bank annual progress reports for each province on
project implementation by June 30 of each year, starting with June 30, 1998, and
covering the previous fiscal year, including the outcomes of the monitoring and
evaluation indicators and results of the technical audits (See para. 3.70);
(f) furnish for comments to the Bank, budgets for each of the project provinces each
year by October 31 and covering the following fiscal year (See para. 3.70);
(g) prepare and present to the Bank a mid-term report on project implementation and
plans for the remaining years of the project, by June 30, 1999; and review the re-
port together with the Bank by October 31, 1999 (see para. 3.71);
(h) carry out annual technical audits of project implementation and provide them to the
Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (See para. 3.72);
(i) furnish to the Bank within six months after the project closing date a plan designed
to ensure the continued effectiveness of the project objectives (See para. 3.73); and
(j) provide project accounts including the special account and SOEs audited annually
by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and audit reports within nine
months of the end of the government fiscal year (See para. 4.14).



Staff Appraisal Report                         49
B. RECOMMENDATION
6.02   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for a Bank Loan
of US$98.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a
grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, for currency pool loans.



50                      Annex 1: Page l of 17
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION
PROGRAM AND PROJECT
The economic analysis conducted for the Sumatra Secondary Education Project
consists of: (i) demand analysis and rationale for public investment in junior secondary; (ii)
fiscal analysis; (iii) analysis of alternatives; and (iv) cost-benefit analysis.
The economic analysis first aims to understand the determinants of demand for junior
secondary education in Indonesia particularly since there have been variations in the past
decade and there are significant disparities among socio-economic groups (Section 1). This
section establishes that the main determinants of demand are household incomes, costs of
schooling and distance to school; the latter two are variables that Government can affect
through this project. The rationale for additional public investment in junior secondary is
investigated subsequently (Section 1), and it is argued that on both efficiency and equity
grounds, there are justifications for additional public intervention in expanding junior
secondary.
The cost implications of the Government's expansion program (Section II) are then
considered. A key element is the future role of the private sector in the provision of junior
secondary education. The conclusions reached are that a sizable budgetary effort will be
required, but that the policy is attainable if the economy continues to grow at its historical
rate, additional funds are made available to junior secondary including external borrowing
and the private sector retains its current large share.
The next question that arises is how best to provide junior secondary education. The
Government has at its reach both demand and supply policy instruments and within the latter
several alternative modes of junior secondary exist. These are analyzed in Section 1I1.
Finally, the costs and benefits of the specific project design are laid out and an
economic rate of return is calculated (Section IV). The financial impact of the project on the
provincial budgets and prospects of sustainability is analyzed in Section II.
1. DEMAND ANALYSIS AND RATIONALE FOR PUBLIC INVESTMENT IN JUNIOR SECONDARY
Enrollment at the junior secondary level expanded rapidly between the late 1960's
and 1980's, reaching 63 percent in gross terms in 1988 (47 percent NER).' For the next five
years, however, enrollment fell to 52 percent (41 percent NER) by 1993 (declining in
absolute terms from 7.8 million to 7.1 million students). Recent data indicate a resurgence of
demand in the last two years (GER and NER rose to 58 percent and 47 percent respectively
by 1995) almost restoring the pre-decline enrollment rates.
I Statistik Persekolahan, Pusat Informatika, MOEC; Statistik Keagamaan, MORA.
Calendar year (i.e. 1988) in this note refers to school year (i.e. 1987/88) in the enrollment statistics.



Annex 1: Page 2of 17                               51
There remain significant differences in enrollments, however, among income groups
and urban-rural residents. In 1994, the net enrollment rate among the top quintile was 66
percent compared to 25 percent for the lowest quintile.2 Significant differences also exist
among urban and rural enrollment rates: 62 percent of urban children aged 13-15 years old
are in junior secondary, compared to 33 percent of rural children. When decomposed by
income and urban-rural levels, enrollments are low for the poor and near-poor children in
both rural and urban areas, and the middle income rural children.3
High direct costs are one.of the primary factors explaining the low junLior secondary
enrollment rates among the poor and near-poor. Overall, the cost to families of educating a
child in junior secondary comes to an annual average of Rp2 10,000 (1994). This is more than
two-and-a-half times the cost of primary education (an average Rp8O,OOO).4 For households
in the lowest quintile, total expenditure per junior secondary student is equivalent to
approximately 80 percent of per capita household expenditure. Particularly significant are
the up-front registration (entrance) fees that parents must pay: in 1994, the average entrance
fee for junior secondary was Rp47,500, which for those in the two lower quintiles was five
times more than the registration fee paid for primary education.
Indirect (opportunity) costs of junior secondary education are significant in rural
areas. and this exacerbates the effect of high direct costs especially among the poor. Schools
are in short supply in rural areas which imposes high travel time and costs. The longer the
travel time, the higher the opportunity cost of schooling, and the more reluctant parents will
be to send their children to school. Though the difference between average travel time to
primary school for urban versus rural residents is insignificant, the national average travel
time to junior secondary schools in rural areas is 50 percent higher than in urban areas.'
Eamings foregone while attending school can also be significant among the poor.
Parents' decisions to send a child to junior secondary education depends on the
aforementioned costs and also on:
1)     income constraints and credit markets failure. The poor have not only low income
but also greater difficulty to borrow. Particularly in the area of human capital investments,
the possibility of borrowing is practically non-existent even among better off families. This
implies that private demand for junior secondary and, as a result, current enrollnent, is lower
than its social optimum.
2)     the benefits of junior secondary education. A tangible benefit associated with junior
secondary education is the additional labor income that would accrue to the graduate
compared to someone who left school after completion of primary education. Under normal
(steady-state) conditions, the wage differentials between primary and junior secondary
education should reflect the socially optimum  amounts of education in the labor force
rendering corrective action by the government unnecessary. However, Indonesia is in a state
2 Indonesia Family Life Survey: Overview and Descriptive Analysis of the Population, Healtlh, and Education Data,
RAND (October 1995)
3 Ibid.
4 Ibid.
5 Ibid. Since travel times are reported by parents whose children are enrolled in school, they are likely to
underestimate the travel time tamilies face when making a decision regarding whether or not to enroll their child.
The survey reports average travel time in rural areas of 30 minutes versus 19 for urban areas.



52                            Annex 1: Page 3 of 17
of rapid transition. Examining the behavior of the labor market, a conclusion that emerges is
that formal sector employment is growing relatively slowly (compared to education output)
and wage differentials have been compressed (due to fast growvth in enrollment among the
better off).6 These pattems give the short-term but false "signal" to poor families that junior
secondary education has neither direct wage rewards nor significant employment prospects
outside agriculture or the informal sector. Indeed, in the period 1988 to 1991 even absolute
enrollments in junior secondary education declined. This disequilibrium phenomena works
against long-term investments, such as those in human capital, and justify Government
support to stabilize short-run variations and to steadily increase junior secondary
enrollments.
3)     how farsighted parents are. Parents are making decisions today in light of the fact
that jobs in the formal sector are expanding at a lower pace than education (hence the
aforementioned wage compression and also the higher rates of unemployment among the
educated). However, as the economy approaches the turning point (expected to take place
within the decade) and as has happened in other NICs, the transformation of the economy
from an agrarian one to one that relies heavily on the education and productivity of its
workers would be fast. At that point, corrective action in the form of training is typically
expensive. For example, it is estimated that training requires six times the costs of basic
7
education in order to achieve the same effect on productivity and wages.
4)     the prospects of continuing to senior secondary. Since junior secondary education is
the stepping stone for proceeding to senior secondary (and tertiary) education, families can
give consideration to the costs and benefits of completing senior secondary education. The
cost of senior secondary is more than double that of junior secondary (Rp460,000 per year)
and may in turn deter parents from investing in junior secondary. Also, as with the earnings
of junior secondary graduates, the wage premium of senior secondary education has declined
significantly over time.
In short, enrollments in junior secondary education can increase if direct costs of
education are reduced (such as through scholarships, fee reductions, etc.) and if indirect costs
are alleviated (e.g. through more and better geographical distribution of schools). On the
benefit side, though little can usually be done with the respect to how the relative supply and
demand of educated/less educated workers operate in the labor market, there are policies that
increase the value of education through improving its quality. Quality also affects the
decision of parents to enroll their children and a child's progress through school. There are
improvements to be made on the input aspects of quality, for example, 30 percent of junior
secondary students still do not have mathematics textbooks. But the more important (and
complex) area of improvement appears to be in the process of how inputs are combined to
educate students and the interactions between teachers and students. Evidence on this for
junior secondary in Indonesia is scant, but findings from research conducted in primary
schools indicates that the problem may lie in the teacher's inability to identify, diagnose and
6 See Training and the Labor Market in Indonesia: Policiesfor Productivity Gains and Employment Growth, World
Bank (1996) Chapter 1. The wage premium for urban junior secondary graduates relative to primary have declined
over the past decade (while still positive) from 80 percent to 30 percent for males and 166 percent to 60 percent for
females. (Ibid.)
7 Training and the Labor Market in Indonesia: Policies for Productivity Gains and Employment Growth, World Bank
(1996); Box 2.1.



Annex].: Page 4of 17                                 53
address student progress in the classroom.8 Another indicator of quality is the relative low
scores in reading competency tests of Indonesian students by international standards.
Externalities. Research from other countries has pointed to the existence of p2ositive
extenmaities such as reduced fertility and child mortality and improved nutritional status that
correlate with female secondary education. For Indonesia, survey results indicate that a
mother's education is an important determinant of prenatal care utilization: 25 percent of
women with some primary education do not use prenatal care compared to less than 10
percent of women with junior secondary education.'0 Furthermore, analysis of nutritional
status in Indonesia finds a strong effect of maternal education on children's nutritional status:
for women with between zero and five years of education, an additional year of education
has no impact on the child's nutritional status, while, among women with six to twelve years
of education (or more), an additional year of education improves nutritional status
significantly.' '
The four reasons given earlier on why private considerations may lead to a social
underinvestment in junior secondary and the externalities from women's education all point
to the need for greater public involvement. Though we do not quantify the extent of market
failure associated with these reasons (e.g., does credit market failure affect 10 or 10,000 poor
children) some additional insight may be gained by looking at social rates of return to
education that have been computed from  1986-1992. The estimates indicate that returns to
junior secondary education are the highest among other education subsectors (Table 1).
Furthermore, while returns for all the subsectors may have declined during this period, those
for junior secondary saw the smallest reduction.
Table 1
Index of Social Rates of Return to Primary and Secondary Education
1986, 1992 (JS 1992=100)
Level of Education                  1986           1992
Primary                                  146             55
Junior Secondary                         127            100
Senior Secondary (Gen'l)                 145             64
Senior Secondary (Voc'l)                 136             46
Source: Calculated from McMahon and Boediono (1992); McMahon (1995)
In conclusion, there are both efficiency and equity grounds for public intervention in
junior secondary education. The appropriate public interventions include building school
facilities in rural areas, providing scholarships to poor students, and enhancing quality.
8 "Some Basic Number Skills in Twelve Primary Schools: An Exploratory Study", Tony Somerset (1995)
9 Subbarao and Raney (1993) examine the determinants of desired family size in 72 countries and find that after
controlling for level of economic development and other factors, female secondary education is highly significant.
Secondary education for females reduces fertility and mortality in several ways: (i) by enhancing the opportunity
cost of a woman's time in economic activities relative to child-bearing; (ii) by promoting child health which in turn
affects desired family size; and (iii) by promoting more effective contraceptive use and willingness to use modern
contraceptive methods.
10 RAND IFLS (October 1995).
11 .Nutritional Status in Indonesia: Evidencefrom the 1993 Indonesian Family Life Survey", E. Frankenberg, W.
Surisatini, and D. Thomas ; RAND ( January 1996).



54                             Annex I. Page S of 17
II. FISCAL ANALYSIS
An analysis of the likely costs and implications for the public budget of achieving
universal enrollment in junior secondary education by the year 2010 is presented below. The
fiscal impact of this project is then estimated.
A. Fiscal Implications of the Junior Secondary Education Expansion Program
The overall education expenditure in Indonesia is currently reasonably balanced
across primary (46%), secondary (13%  junior, 15%  senior) and tertiary (13%) levels.
However, it has been subject to significant variations in the past and has not always been
protected from  budgetary cuts. Indeed, public expenditure on education has declined over
time as the graphs below demonstrate.  This is relevant in light of the Government's plans
to achieve universal nine years of education, which will require significant additional public
resources to be spent on the junior secondary sub-sector, as well as on primary education.'3
INDONESIA                                      INDONESIA
Public Education Expenditure as Percent of      Public Education Expenditure as Percent of
GDP, 1984-96                         Total Government Expenditure, 1984-96
4.50                      -                        19.00
4.30                                              18.00
4.10
3.90                                               17.00
3 70                                              16.00
3.50                                               15.00
3 30                                              14.00
3 10                                              13 00
2 90                                              12.00
2 70                                              11.00
2.50                                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
CO    0-    a)    0)    0  0      000 J
Year                                             Year
Achieving universal junior secondary enrollment in 15 years is a formidable task as it
requires increasing enrollments by 1.8 times (from 7.5 million to 13.5 million). It is therefore
important to define the role of the public and private sectors. Currently, the ratio of
public/private enrollment is about 60/40. We evaluate the cost implications of three
alternative public/private scenarios, that is, universal junior secondary enrollnent is achieved
in year 20 1 0 and:
1)     the public/private share stays at its current 60/40 ratio;
2)     private enrollment stays at its current 3.5 million/year; or
3)     private enrollment is phased out except for enrollment in religious schools which
is assumed to remain at its current level of I million students/year.
Under the 60/40 public/private scenario, enrollments in public schools are assumed
to increase annually by 240,000 students. Under the other two scenarios the annual increase
will be 400,000 and 533,000 students. In all scenarios it is assumed that the level of recurrent
funding remains at its present level of $110 per student/year which implies that there would
12 The last two years are preliminary estimates.
13 The exercise conducted here assumes that the graduation rate from primary school will increase from the current
rate of 75% to 100%. This will require additional investments at the primary level to increase retention.



Annex ]: Page 6 of 1 7                         5
be no quality gains. Development costs (building new schools) are estimated to be around
$900 per additional student. To address credit market failures and enable expansion among
the poor, it is assumed that 10 percent of additional students in excess of the current 7.5
million will receive a scholarship of $90/year. Students enrolled in private schools are
assumed to receive an average annual subsidy of $40 per student to help raise the quality of
private schools (Appendix Table B).
The results of the scenarios indicate that achieving universal basic education will
have sizable budgetary implications. Even if the current public/private ratio of 60/40 is
preserved, this would imply that public enrollnent increases from 4.5 million to 8.1 million.
What is required to finance this expansion (whiclh is desirable on both efficiency and equity
grounds) is a combination of significantly increased allocations to junior secondary
education, a decline in the funding of other education sub-sectors (such as senior secondary
or tertiary education) unless there is an increase in the overall education budget (if
sectoral allocations are to be preserved, especially with respect to primary education), and
large funding from donors.
The estimates below indicate that under all scenarios a significant financing effort
will be required (Table 2). In addition, the difference in enrollments between the three
scenarios point to a substantial increase in total public costs if the private sector ceases to
play the role it does today. More specifically, the total additional public funds that would be
required through year 2010 come to about: $7.6 billion in the public/private scenario; $11.1
billion if the current level of private enrollment is maintained; and $14.5 billion under the
pure public scenario (if the private sector is phased out except for religious schools).
Table 2
Additional Public Funds ($m) Required to Achieve Universal JS Enrollment in 2010
Under Alternative Public/Private Scenarios
Scenario I       Scenario II       Scenario III
Public/Private    Constant Private   Private declines
(60/40)          (at 3 mn)      (except religious
schools)
Total add'l expenditure
required for expansion           7,605             11,115            14,505
Per annum                        507                741               967
of which:
Development                     216               360                480
Recurrent                       211               352                469
Scholarships                     29                29                 29
Subsidies to Private Sch.        51                  0               -1 I
Memo:
Additional students p.a.      240,000            400,000           533,000
How can the expansion be financed? Let us assume that the education budget
increases annually by 6 percent, that is, as much as the historic growth rate of GDP. This will
add nearly $7.5 billion to the junior secondary education budget. Compared to the additional
public funds required for the expansion, this implies a shortfall of $543 million, $4 billion
and $7.4 billion under the three scenarios (Table 3). The last two scenarios appear



56                          Annex 1: Page 7of 17
unattainable, but the (60/40) public/private scenario also has a caveat: it is heavily front
loaded. More precisely, additional funding comes to $1.2 billion in the first ten years though
no additional resources will be required thereafter when the system reaches relative maturity
(after year 2005 the percentage increases in public enrollments will be significantly less than
6 percent growth in the budget). The (60/40) public/private scenario though affordable at
face value, will require additional funding of an average $120 million during the first ten
years of expansion (and considerably more, as much as $150-$200 million in the first five
years). The budgetary shortfall (in $ million) is shown graphically in Figure 3.
Table 3
Budgetary Shortfall ($ mn) of Junior Secondary Expansion Under
Alternative Public/Private Scenarios (assuming 6% p.a. growth of budget)
Shortfall if expansion is
Public/Private     Constant Private      Private declines
Year                (60/40)              (3 mn)          (except religious)
1995                  0                    0                     0
1996                -201                  -357                 -490
1997                 -192                 -358                 -505
1998                 -180                 -358                 -518
1999                 -165                 -354                 -527
2000                 -147                 -347                 -534
2001                 -126                 -337                 -537
2002                 -101                 -324                 -537
2003                 -73                  -306                 -533
2004                  -41                 -285                 -525
2005                 * -4                 -260                 -514
2006                  37                  -231                 -497
2007                  82                  -196                 -476
2008                  132                 -157                 -451
2009                  188                 -113                 -420
2010                 249                  -63                  -383
Total 1996-20 10            -543                 -4047                -7447
Total 1996-2005             -1230                -3286                -5220
* After year 2005, the percentage increases in public enrollments will be
significantly less than 6 percent growth in the budget.



Annex 1: Page 8of 17                             57
Figure 3:
Budgetary Shortfall for Expansion of Junior Secondary under Alternative Public/Pri
Scenarios (assuming 6% p.a. growth)
300                              (1996-2010)
200
100
0
19   1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2W  4-dr  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  0
-100
-200 
-300
400
-500
-800
Year
| -  Prvate sector share remains at 40%  Private sector maintains current level of enrotlment (3 mn)
|- -  Private sector declines to only religious schools (1 mn)
The three scenarios would require that the budgetary allocation to junior secondary
education increase from the current 13 percent of the education budget to approximately 16
percent, 19 percent and 21 percent in the next few years (and in the case of the mainly public
scenario it will have to remain at more than 16 percent in the steady-state compared to the
public/private scenario where the share stabilizes at 11 percent) (Table 4). These figures
amount respectively to increases of 23, 46 and 62 percent of the current allocation.
Table 4
Share of Junior Secondary Budget as Proportion of Total Education Budget Under
Alternative Public/Private Scenarios (assuming 6% p.a. growth of budget)
Year             Public/Private       Constant Private       Private declines
(40/40)               (3 mn)           (except religious)
1995                  13%                   13%                   13%
1996                  16%                   19%                   21%
1997                  16%                   19%                   21%
1998                  16%                   18%                   21%
1999                  15%                   18%                   21%
2000                  15%                   18%                   20%
2001                  15%                   17%                   20%
2002                  14%                   17%                    19%
2003                  14%                   16%                    19%
2004                  13%                   16%                    19%
2005                  13%                   16%                    18%
2006                  13%                   15%                    18%
2007                  12%                   15%                    17%
2008                  12%                   14%                    17%
2009                  11%                   14%                    16%
2010                  11%                   13%                    16%



58                     Annex l: Page 9of 17
The cost estimates presented above incorporate estimates of scholarships for poor
students and subsidies paid to private schools. It is legitimate to plan for such public
expenditure because alleviating supply constraints (e.g., building schools in rural areas) will
not alone remove demand constraints (that is, the opportunity cost of attending education).
Assuming that the poorest 10 percent of the additional enrollment each year receives a
scholarship of $90, the total cost of the scheme over the 15 year period will come to an
annual average of $29 million in all scenarios (increasing from $3.6 million in 1996 to $54
million in 2010). In the public/private scenario, scholarships will amount to 6 percent of the
total public cost of expansion (ranging from 1.4 percent in 1996 to 7 percent in 2010). On the
other hand, the budgetary savings from phasing out private schools and the subsidy they
receive (assumed at $40/student) will be only $1.6 million/year. This saving is small (I
percent of the additional funds) and can prove counterproductive as it will take place at the
expense of the current co-financing of junior secondary education between Government and
families.
What do these estimates imply for the total public budget allocated to education
relative to GDP? Public expenditure on education is today approximately 2.7 percent of
GDP. To fund the expected expansion of junior secondary education this figure should
increase to approximately 3.0 percent and 3.2 percent under the 60/40 public/private and
pure public scenarios, respectively. These figures assume that allocations to other sectors
increase annually by 6 percent (GDP growth).
In conclusion, achieving universal enrollment in junior secondary is desirable on
both equity and efficiency grounds, but will require a sizable budgetary effort. The policy is
attainable if the economy continues to grow at its historical rate, additional funds are made
available to junior secondary including external borrowing, and the private sector retains its
share.
B. Fiscal Impact of the Project
Utilizing the results of the above scenarios and assuming the 60/40 public/private
case as the "desirable" scenario, the fiscal impact of the project on the five provinces is
estimated below. The estimates are based on the following assumptions: (i) the education
budget in each province will increase at the national historical growth rate of GDP (6% per
annum in real terms); and (ii) the share of the junior secondary education budget out of the
total provincial education budget would also have to increase during the capital-intensive
phase (as in the national scenario; see Table 4 above).
Aceh. Based on the above assumptions, total project costs for Aceh (including physical and
price contingencies, and taxes) estimated at US$26.07 million, would account for about
5.5% of the Aceh education budget, on average, during the project period (1997/98-2001/02).
Incremental recurrent expenditures, which are negligible in the first two years of the project
increase from US$0.2 million in 1998/99 to US$1.8 million in the last year of the project,
and stabilize at US$1.8 after the project is completed, representing 2% of the education
budget.  Thus the long-term  recurrent cost implications of the project are small and
manageable.



Annex 1: Page IOof 17                            59
Table 5
FISCAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON ACEH EDUCATION BUDGET
(assuming 6% p.a. real growth of budget)
Prior to Project                                                  After
95/96 ($mn)    96/97   9 7/98   98/99    99/00   00/01    01/02   Project
Aceh Educ. Budget         64.00       67.84   71.91    76.23   80.80   85.65   90.79   96.23
Total Project Cost                    0.11    4.71     7.06    7.10    5.56      1.49
Project Incremental                   0.00    0.00    0.22    0.90      1.34    1.79     1.79
Recurrent Costs I/
Project Cost as share of              0.00    0.07    0.09    0.09    0.06    0.02
Educ.Budget (%)
Project Incr. Recur.                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.0!    0.02    0.02    0.02
Costs as share of
Educ. Budget (%)
I/ Assuming unit recurrent cost of Rp. 204,000 (US$93) per student.
West Sumatra. Based on the above assumptions, total project costs for West Sumatra
(including physical and price contingencies, and taxes) estimated at US$28.73 million,
would account for about 1 0 % of the West Sumatra education budget, on average, during the
project period (1997/98-2001/02). Incremental recurrent expenditures, which are negligible
in the first two years of the project increase from US$0.2 million in 1998/99 to US$1.5
million in the last year of the project, and stabilize at US$1.5 after the project is completed,
representing 3% of the education budget. Thus the long-term recurrent cost implications of
the project are small and manageable.
Table 6
FISCAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON WEST SUMATRA EDUCATION BUDGET
(assuming 6% p.a. real growth of budget)
Prior to Project                                                  After
95/96 (Smn)    96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00   00/01   01/02   Project
West Sumatra Educ.        35.00       37.10   39.33   41.69   44.19   46.84   49.65   52.63
Budget
Total Project Cost                     0.11    5.12    7.74    7.79    6.53      1.39
Project Incremental                    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.75     1.12    1.49     1.49
Recurrent Costs I/
Project Cost as share                  0.00    0.13    0.19    0.18    0.14    0.03
of Educ.Budget (%)
Project Incr. Recur.                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.02    0.03    0.03
Costs as share of
Educ. Budget (%)
1/ Assuming unit recurrent cost of Rp. 204,000 (US$93) per student.
Jambi. Based on the above assumptions, total project costs for Jambi (including physical
and price contingencies, and taxes) estimated at US$15.97 million, would account for about
11% of the Jambi education budget, on average, during the project period (1997/98-
2001/02). Incremental recurrent expenditures, which are negligible in the first two years of
the project increase from US$0.1 million in 1998/99 to US$0.8 million in the last year of the



60                           Annex 1: Page ]] of 17
project, and stabilize at US$0.8 after the project is completed, representing 2% of the
education budget. Thus the long-term recurrent cost implications of the project are small and
manageable.
Table 7
FISCAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON JAMBI EDUCATION BUDGET
(assuming 6% p.a. real growth of budget)
Prior to Project                                                  After
95/96 (Smn)   96/97   9 7/98   98/99    99/00    00/01    01/02   Project
Jambi Educ. Budget        29.00       30.74   32.58   34.54    36.61    38.81    41.14    43.61
Total Project Cost                    0.10    3.15    4.34     4.43     3.32     0.60
Project Incremental                   0.00    0.00    0.10     0.39     0.59     0.78     0.78
Recurrent Costs 1/
Project Cost as share of              0.00    0.10    0.13     0.12     0.09     0.01
Educ.Budget (%)
Project Incr. Recur.                  0.00    0.00    0.00     0.01     0.02     0.02     0.02
Costs as share of
Educ. Budget (%)
I / Assuming unit recurrent cost of Rp. 204,000 (US$93) per student.
South Sumatra. Based on the above assumptions, total project costs for South Sumatra
(including physical and price contingencies, and taxes) estimated at US$40.33 million,
would account for about 1 1% of the South Sumatra education budget, on average, during the
project period (1997/98-2001/02). Incremental recurrent expenditures, which are negligible
in the first two years of the project increase from US$0.3 million in 1998/99 to US$2.1
million in the last year of the project, and stabilize at US$2.1 after the project is completed,
representing 3% of the education budget. Thus the long-term recurrent cost implications of
the project are small and manageable.
Table 8
FISCAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON SOUTH SUMATRA EDUCATION BUDGET
(assuming 6% p.a. real growth of budget)
Prior to Project                                                  After
95/96 (Smn)    96/97   9 7/98   98/99    99/00   00/01    01/02   Project
South Sumatra Educ.      50.00       53.00   56.18   59.55   63.12   66.91    70.93    75.18
Budget
Total Project Cost                    0.15    7.25    10.97    11.16    9.50    1.40
Project Incremental                   0.00    0.00    0.26     1.04     1.56    2.08     2.08
Recurrent Costs I/
Project Cost as share                 0.00    0.13     0.18    0.18     0.14    0.02
of Educ.Budget (%)
Project Incr. Recur.                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.02      0.03     0.03
Costs as share of
Educ. Budget (%)
1/ Assuming unit recurrent cost of Rp. 204,000 (US$93) per student.



Annex ]: Page 12 of 1 7                          61
Lampung. Based on the above assumptions, total project costs for Lampung (including
physical and price contingencies, and taxes) estimated at US$34.92 million, would account
for about 1 1% of the Lampung education budget, on average, during the project period
(1997/98-2001/02). Incremental recurrent expenditures, which are negligible in the first two
years of the project increase from US$0.3 million in 1998/99 to US$2.6 million in the last
year of the project, and stabilize at US$2.6 after the project is completed, representing 4% of
the education budget. Thus the long-term recurrent cost implications of the project are small
and manageable.
Table 9
FISCAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON LAMPUNG EDUCATION BUDGET
(assuming 6% p.a. real growth of budget)
Prior to Project                                               After
95/96 (Sm,n)    96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00   00/01   01/02   Project
Lampung Educ.           42.00      44.52   47.19   50.02   53.02   56.21   59.58   63.15
Budget
Total Project Cost                  0.10    6.19    9.57    9.83    7.35    1.85
Project Incremental                 0.00    0.00    0.32    1.28    1.91    2.55    2.55
Recurrent Costs I/
Project Cost as share               0.00    0.13    0.19    0.19    0.13    0.03
of Educ.Budget
(%)
Project lncr. Recur.                0.00    0.00    0.01    0.02    0.03    0.04    0.04
Costs as share of
Educ. Budget (%)
I/ Assuming unit recurrent cost of Rp. 204,000 (US$93) per student.
.11. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
A. Alternative Modes of Junior Secondary Education
GOI has available to it various alternatives to the regular (9 classroom) SMP school.
These include: SMP Kecil (small schools of 3 classrooms), SMP Terbuka (open/distance
school), and Paket B (non-formal education). An analysis of their unit costs and effectiveness
is presented below. Two words of caution are in order, however: (i) the alternative programs
are not perfect substitutes for each other or even to the regular SMP (see below); and (ii) the
programs are in an early stage of development, particularly the SMP Terbuka and are
undergoing continuous revisions, hence their unit costs and outcomes are expected to change
over time. The analysis below, therefore, is preliminary and will be updated during the
course of the project.
Following is a characterization of the main advantages and disadvantages of each
program:



62                            Annex 1: Page 13 of 17
Program                    Advantages                        Disadvantages
*  Better learning environment.    .  Higher investment cost than for
.  More time-on-task in school.       other options.
*  Preferred by community because  .  Often required students to walk
it represents regular schooling.  long distances
.  Employs unprepared multi-
SMP Kecil                                               subject teachers.
*  Might require student or teacher
accommodations
.   Is not free-of-charge (parents
have to pay for entrance fees,
ulliforms, exam fees, BP3, etc.)
*  Free of charge.                 .  Requires a regular SMP as a
.  More flexible time.                basis (mother school).
*  At end of course, students take    .  Less time-on-task at school.
SMP Terbuka           EBTANAS exam.                  *  Students have to travel to mother
.  Uses regular teachers.             school
.  All curriculum subjects are    *  Requires discipline of self-study.
taught.
.  Tutorials are held near student's
home.
.  Free of charge.                a  Is less accepted by community.
.  Reaches students who work      .  Students do not take final
(reduced opportunity costs).      EBTANAS exam but a specific
.  Has modules of better quality      one not comparable to NEM
than those of SMP Terbuka.        scores.
*  Good access for females.       .  Requires self-study.
Paket B         .  On average, students walk only    .  Tutors are very often not
I km to tutorial center.          teachers.
*  Is more suitable for participants   .  Not all subjects are taught.
not continuing fon-nal schooling.
Following are estimates of unit costs of each alternative program:
Unit Cost                   Unit Cost
Program                       (Rp. per student p.a.)      (Rp. per student p.a.)
(with books/modules)    (without books/modules)
SMP Kecil 1/                         467,000                     133,000
SMP Terbuka                          360,000                     100,000
Paket B                              305,000                      45,000
1/ including amortization of building
As mentioned above, the three alternatives are not perfect substitutes. SMP Terbuka
needs a 9-classroom regular SMP school within reasonable distance to function as a mother
school, providing subject matter teachers. Thus the program cannot be introduced in very
remote areas where regular SMPs are not available. Paket B is more flexible, but does not
lead to an EBTANAS examination yet; thus it is not well accepted in all areas. An SMP
kecil, always accepted despite some of the draw-backs in terms of teachers' quality, requires
a capital investment (and subsequent maintenance and amortization). In addition, MOEC has
to find regular teachers willing to stay in remote areas.



Annex ]: Page 14 of 17                           63
Learning Achievement.  It is difficult at present to compare learning achievement
between the three types of schooling. SMP Terbuka is a very recent program; NEM scores
exist for only one year, thus there is limited basis for analysis. Paket B has its own
examination which does not produce any NEM scores; its examination scores are not
comparable with those of the other two programs. So far, only one comparative study of
learning achievements has been conducted.14 Students in the sample, subdivided into two
groups according to whether they had just entered the program (Group I) or they had
attended the program for one year (Group 11), were administered the same test, which gave
the following mean test results:
Program                        Group I           Group 11
Paket B                           34.0               41.0
Regular SMP                       42.5               51.3
SMP Terbuka                        31.1              34.3
Students of SMP Terbuka scored the lowest grades. The study further calculates the "gain
points average" for each alternative, which shows that the highest gain was obtained by the
regular SMP, followed by Paket B and SMP Terbuka.
The above mentioned study represents one case study and should not be considered
as conclusive. As the three alternative programs are further developed under the project (and
other projects such as the Non-formal Education Project), they will be monitored and
outcomes measured in order to produce more conclusive conclusions.
B. Public versus Private Provision of Junior Secondary Education
A second analysis of alternatives is that covered under Section II on the role of the
private sector. The earlier discussion highlighted the budgetary implications of the expansion
program if the role of the private sector declines. There are additional merits to preserving
the private sector. First, given the current and projected surplus of teachers, a robust private
sector is an effective means for helping to clear the market for teachers. Second, madrasah
schools (religious schools which currently enroll about 20% of junior secondary students)
offer access to junior secondary in small, poor communities and at a cost that is significantly
lower than even MOEC-supervised private schools. These schools also enroll a higher
proportion of girls than boys, reflecting the preference pattern of some families for non-
conventional education. Third, maintaining the share of private schools at the junior
secondary level establishes the basis for sustaining the even larger share of private schools at
the senior secondary level (54% of enrollments in 1993/94).
14 "Study of Cost-effectiveness, Relevant and Sustainable Models of Paket B Program Implementation", Directorate
General of Out-of-School Education, Youths and Sports, MOEC, 1995.



64                               Annex 1: Page 15 of 17
IV. COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
The economic rate of return for the project investment is estimated by province and
component (increasing access and enhancing quality, but excluding the management
component). The estimates are obtained by solving for the internal rate of return that equates
a stream of benefits and costs resulting from the investment over a thirty year horizon.
Table I presents the rates of return for the two project provinces by component.
Overall returns for the two provinces are high and those to quality enhancements are higher
than for expansion of access.
Table 10
Rates of Return to Project Investments by Component and Province (%)
Component         Jambi        DI A ceAl      Lampumg       S. Sumatra      W. Sumatra
Access              16            1 5            17              16             13
Quality             24            1 7            15              19             17
Total               19            16             16              18             15
The remainder of the section explains how the estimates were made and provides an
indication of the sensitivity of the estimates to some of the underlying assumptions.
A. Benefits
Increasing Access.   The project investments are expected to lead to an increase in
the number of students enrolled in and graduating from junior secondary in any given year.
Most junior secondary graduates, however, do not stop at this level: nationally about 84
percent proceed to senior secondary and another 30 percent proceed to tertiary. Thus, the
stream of output resulting from the project investments is modeled as a function of the
following five levels of outflows:
1. Junior secondary graduates;
2. Junior secondary graduates who proceed to senior secondary and then drop out;
3. Junior secondary graduates who succeed in graduating from senior secondary;
4. Senior secondary graduates who proceed to university and then drop out; and
5. University graduates.
The total number of the above outflow over a thirty year period amounts to
approximately 540,000 beneficiaries (Table 2).' The benefits of each of the beneficiaries are
estimated as the difference in wages between one level of education and the next. No
additional wage premiums are assumed to accrue to dropouts (they earn the same wage as
that of the education level they drop from). Provincial data on wages, drop out rates (by
grade), and transition rates are utilized in the estimation of outflows and benefits.'6
15 These outflows assume that there will not be a capacity constraint at the senior secondary and higher education
levels. Give the rapid growth of the private sector at these levels in the past decade, this assumption is not
unreasonable to make (coupled with some additional public investment).
16 In cases where provincial wage rates are not reliable, national wages were used as an approximation.



A4nnex 1. Page 16 of 17                      65
Table 11
Beneficiaries of Project Investments (stream over 30 years)
(million)
Component   Jambi   DIAceh   LanWung   S. Sumatra    W. Sumatra   Total Project
Access       0.05      0.1        0.2        0.1          0.09         0.54
Quality       1.1      0.9        1.5        1.6           1.2          6.3
Total        1.15      1.0        1.7        1.7          1.29         6.84
Enhancing Quality.  Investments to enhance quality will extend to (a high
proportion of) existing students as well as the new students generated by the project. Over
the thirty years of the calculation, the total number of quality beneficiaries amount to
approximately 6.8 million. We assume that a 10 percent additional wage premium can be
earned by higher quality graduates (equivalent to about an extra $1.5-2.5 per month,
depending upon provincial wages).
B. Costs
Investment costs are divided into those related to increasing access and those which
enhance quality, for each of the four provinces. They are spread over six years, with very
little investment in the first year of the project, followed by several years of heavy capital
outlays and tapering off in the sixth year. A provincial average annual per student recurrent
cost is imposed throughout the project and subsequently for the remaining twenty-five years
(amounting to about $100). Similarly, annual recurrent costs for senior secondary and
university education are added to total costs since a significant portion of the benefits accrue
as a result of junior secondary students proceeding up the system. On the quality side, an
increment of $8 is assumed to represent the recurrent cost of additional quality
improvements. No quality enhancements are factored for senior secondary and tertiary.
C. Sensitivity to Assumptions
Simulations were run varying some of the underlying assumptions. Following are
results for selected provinces:
Change                                   New rate of return (base casel Table 1)
Only a 5% increase in additional wage
premium for higher quality graduates:
West Sumatra                              11% (17%)
Jambi                                     17% (24%)
JS/Primary wage differential by 20%:
South Sumatra                             17% (16%)
Aceh                                      16% (15%)
SS/JS wage differential increases by 20%:
South Sumatra                             17.6% (16%)
Aceh                                      16% (15%)



66                         Annex ]: Page 17of 17
Increase in JS recurrent costs by 30%:
Lampung                                   15% (17%)
West Sumatra                              14% (17%)
Incremental recurrent costs for quality
improvement increase form $8/student to
$12 /student
Lampung                                   12% (15%)
West Sumatra                             14% (17%)
In all, the main variables to which the system appears to be most sensitive are those
affecting quality. This is not surprising given the large numbers of beneficiaries which are
impacted by this investment.



INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
BASIC EDUCATION DATA
Di ACEH         WEST          JAMBI          SOUTH        LAMPUNG    INDONESIA
SUMATRA                       SUMATRA
Age Population (1315 yrs)              269,000        326.038        171.900        526,734        487,200      13,405,300
JSE Enrollment                         169,600        217,419        118,462        282,601        285,004       7,132,537
Public                                140,379        180,675         82,433        169,720        128,029       4,215,162
Private                                29.221         36,744         36,019        112.881        156,976       2,917,375
Gross Enrollment Rate                     59 2           66.6           55.0           51 7           54.4            58.2
Net Enrollment Rate                       44 9           52.0           38.5           38 6           41.8            44.6
Transition Rate SD/SLTP                   78.3           71 0           64.8           64.9           65.1            66.8
Drop-out Rate                              4.9            2.2            6.4            3.6            NA              3.9
Repetition Rate                            2.0             1.6           1.1             1.2           0.2             0.7
% Over-aged Pupils                         13.2           13.6          13.1            16.0          13.6            13.0                               0
NumberofTeachers                        12.400         16,363          4,012         18,099         20,433         380,072
Public                                  9,760         11,803          2,434          8,455          7,828         225,672
Private                                 2,640          3,660          1,578          9,644         12,605         154,400
Student/Teacher Ratio                       14             14             30             16             14              19
Public                                     14             16             34             20             16              19
Private                                    II             10             23             12             12              19
Number ofSLTP Schools                      629            697            466           1,108          1,166         26.664
Public                                    400            411            218            405            241
Private                                   229            286            248            703            925
Number of Classrooms                     4,210          4,872          2,698          6,202          6,709         151,978
Public                                  3,328          3,889          1,764          3,309          2,384
Private                                   882            983            834          2,893          4,325
Students/Classroom                          40             46             46             46             42              39
Public                                     42             46             47             51             54
Private                                    33             37             43             39             36
Source: MOEC, Balitbang, 1995.



68                               Annex 3: Page 1 of I
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
BANK GROUP-FINANCED EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECTS
Loan/                                                                                   Amount
Credit    Board    Actual                                                           (less cancellations) a
Number  Approval  Closing  Projects                                        Agency       IBRD       IDA
US$ million -
MOEC
219      1970      1976   First Education                               MOEC Lb                  4.5
387      1973      1981   Third Education                               MOEC                    13.5
1237      1976      1981   Fourth Education                              MOEC          24.1
1433      1977      1984   First Teacher Training                        MOEC          17.8
1486      1977      1984  Nonformal education                            MOEC           8.3
869      1978      1985  Polytechnic                                    MOEC                    49.0
1904      1980      1987  First University Development                   MOEC          43.1
2101      1982      1990  Second Teacher Training                        MOEC          79.1
2102      1982      1988   Second Textbook                               MOEC          24.9
2290      1983      1990  Second Polytechnic                             MOEC         106.0
2355      1983      1990  Second Nonformal Education                     MOEC          43.0
2472      1984      1990  Secondary Education and Mgmt Training          MOEC          76.6
2547      1985      1993   Second University Development                 MOEC         147.0
2944      1988      1993  Higher Education Development                   MOEC         140.3
3158      1990         --  Second Secondary Education and Mgmt           MOEC         154.2
3311      1991         --  Second Higher Education Development           MOEC         150.0
3431      1991         --  Third Nonformal Education                     MOEC          59.6
3448      1992         --  Primary Education Quality Improvement         MOEC          37.0
3496      1992         --  Primary School Teacher Development            MOEC          36.6
3754      1994         --  University Research for Graduate Education    MOEC          58.9
3887      1995         --  Book and Reading Development                  MOEC         132.5
3979      1996         --  Secondary School Teacher Development          MOEC          60.4
4042      1996         --  East Java/East Nusa Tenggara Jr. Secondary    MOEC          99.0
4062      1997         --  Central Indonesia Junior Secondary Education  MOEC         104.0
Subtotal of Projects with MOEC                            1602.4      67.0
Other Ministries
288      1972      1978  Second Education (Agriculture Training)        MOA L.                   6.3
1692      1979      1985  Second Agricultural Training                   MOA           34.7
2258      1983      1988   Public Works Manpower Development             MOPW Ld    29.8
2341      1983      1992  Third Agricultural Training                    MOA           62.9
2599      1985      1993   Science and Technology Training               MORT L        93.0
2705      1986      1995   Manpower Development and Training             MOM Lf        58.1
2940      1988      1995   Accountancy Development                       MOF Lg       113.0
2992      1988         --  Tree Crop Human Resource Development          MOA           18.4
3112      1988         --  Public Works Institution Dev. & Training      MOPW          36.1
3134      1989         --  Professional Human Resources Development      BAPPENAS  117.5
BPPT Lb, MOF
3721      1994         --  Skills Development                            MOM           27.7
3825      1995         --  Professional Human Resources Development 1    BAPPENAS   69.0
BPPT, MOF
Subtotal of Projects with Other Ministries                 660.2       6.3
GRAND TOTAL                                               2262.6      73.
La  "The amount less cancellation" applies only to the projects which were closed (with "Year of Actual Closing").
The amount for other ongoing projects was taken from the Staff Appraisal Reports.
L MOEC - Ministry of Education and Culture.
La  MOA   - Ministry of Agriculture.
La  MOPW - Ministry of Public Works.
La  MORT - Ministry of Research and Technology.
Lf  MOM   - Ministry of Manpower.
Lg  MOF   - Ministry of Finance.
Lh  BPPT  - Agency for Assessment and Application of Technology.



Annex 4: Page 1 of 4                           69
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
OPTIONS FOR INCREASING ACCESS
To increase access to junior secondary education, a variety of strategies will be
employed according to their appropriateness in each of the provinces, including activities to:
(a) increase the number of places in public schools in order to meet demand; (b) provide
cost-effective alternative solutions besides traditional schools in targeted areas; (c) support
low-income junior secondary students through scholarships; and (d) other strategies to
increase access including the provision of accommodation at existing schools for students
who live too far to travel.
Increasing Places in Public Schools. To increase the opportunities for junior
secondary education, building or expanding traditional junior secondary schools as well as
developing the small SMP, or SMP Kecil, are the first options. Each of these options will-be
appropriate and cost-effective only in certain circumstances and will be introduced when
compatible with local conditions in each of the provinces, as determined by specific criteria
drawn up by each province.
Regular SMP and SMP Kecil. Standard building designs for regular SMPs call for 9,
18, or 27 classrooms. In densely populated areas, regular SMPs remain the obvious solution
to increase access. However, schools of standard size are too large to serve rural areas with
small, scattered populations, which nevertheless have sufficient cohort populations to justify
a new small school. To increase access in these areas, the Government plans to use the SMP
Kecil, which has fewer than nine classrooms. There would be fewer teachers than the usual
requirement (at least five subject teachers for this type of schools). The main advantage of
the SMP Kecil is that it would allow the services of traditional schools to be provided to
underserved areas with small numbers of potential students.
In some situations, SMP Kecils are an appropriate and cost-effective option for
expanding education. General criteria used by the provinces for the establishment of an
SMP Kecil include: (a) a number of local feeder schools would ensure a minimum of about
30 graduates per year; (b) except for those students provided with dormitories, the maximum
distance for students to reach the school should be 5 kilometers or, alternatively, a one-hour
trip; (c) the school should guarantee the availability of at least three teachers, with
qualifications among them to teach math, science, Bahasa Indonesia, social sciences, local
content, and English; (d) rural, remote and poor areas are given priority; (e) priority is given
to kabupaten and kecamatan with the lowest gross enrollment or transition rates; and
(f) schools should not be in areas served by an existing public or private school. Once the
decision is made, teachers would be offered added incentives to teach in isolated areas (e.g.,
accommodation where appropriate) and education authorities would provide a minimum set
of teaching aids. An attachment shows the criteria for school location.



70                         Annex 4: Page 2 of 4
Education for Difficult Areas. Some areas have an insufficient number of feeder
primary students within a reasonable distance, or a large number of young people who are
not able to attend school at normal times for work-related reasons. In other instances, youth
do not attend school because parents cannot afford to pay for school expenses. The
expansion of access by means of regular schools will not catch these potential students.
Flexible, community-based schooling that requires no separate infrastructure development is
often part of the solution. At present the Government offers programs, parallel to regular
secondary education, such as the SMP Terbuka program (open secondary schooling). SMP
Terbuka programs do not charge fees to students. Criteria for applying these programs are
similar to the ones for the SMP Kecils in terms of walking distance. A minimal class size of
about a dozen students would suffice. These programs would target the rural population in
distant areas, where the establishment of a "small" school is not feasible, and would
represent the minimum educational service that education authorities needs to provide to
these areas.
SMP Terbuka. The SMP Terbuka program, now in operation for only the second
year, is conceived as a major alternative for school-age children who fail to enter a regular
public school because of financial difficulties in entering a public or private school, low
grades in the end-of-level Ebtanas examinations, and/or lack of facilities in the area.
Students in Terbuka programs are free only at certain times of the day, often in the mornings
- most of them help their parents in farming, fishing, or home chores. In most cases,
students attend classes in a regular SMP in the afternoons once or twice a week (a total of
three to four hours), with teachers from the "mother" SMP school. Four or five other
afternoons in the week, students do their home assignment, using specially prepared
modules. in a learning post in the village under the supervision of a tutor.
Such alternative programs as SMP Terbuka meet a need in deprived areas: they do
not involve high costs for parents (practically only transportation), are flexible in the timing,
and do reach a certain percentage of out-of-school youngsters. The main weaknesses are (a)
the often low qualifications and competence of tutors; (b) the relatively high costs of
transportation, which adversely affect attendance in some cases; (c) the qualifications of
students attending these programs, many of whom are bound to be those with low
achievement in primary schools; (d) a shortage of student modules; and (e) reduced class
attendance and contact with qualified teachers compared to regular SMP. Some parents
recognize these weaknesses and reject SMP Terbuka because it is not a "regular" school.
To improve the quality and effectiveness of the program: (a) tutors would be given
intensive training (at present Terbuka tutors attend only a 5-day training course, which
appears inadequate); (b) village chiefs, parents, and community members would be
sensitized and mobilized to ensure that students do attend tutorial classes regularly;
(c) transportation costs in particularly difficult or remote areas would be subsidized by the
Government; and (d) consideration should be given to increasing the length of the program;
(e) students will be required to pass the Ebtanas final examination like other regular SMP
students; (f) Government is considering providing subsidies to students with good learning
achievements to compensate for direct and opportunity costs. The effectiveness of the
Terbuka program will be evaluated during the project.



Annex 4. Page 3 of 4                       71
Scholarship Program. Families in the lower income deciles bear large financial
burdens when their children attend junior secondary school, relative to the total monthly
family expenditures (between 40% and 80%). These costs include school registration fees,
tuition, parental contributions, expenses for unifroms, transport, books and other costs.
Furthermore, children from poor families attending school incur additional costs in the form
of foregone income they could earn within or outside the household. Simulations, based on
econometric modeling indicate that abolishing school fees would raise the transition rate
from primary schools to junior secondary by 12%; subsidizing all school-related direct costs
would raise the rate by 32%, primarily bringing into school those children, whose parents
value education, but cannot afford to pay.
GOI is currently operating a nationwide scholarship program covering some 27,000
junior secondary students. The scholarship consists of financial support amounting to
Rp 25,000 per month for twelve months, an ample amount to cover all school-related costs.
A new fund distribution mechanism has recently been implemented, with funds being
distributed through the post office. The fund provides scholarships to children of low
economic background and satisfactory academic achievement and personality. Within these
criteria, preference is given to children from remote areas, orphans and girls. The fund is
operating well, and though very limited, is much appreciated.
It is proposed in the project, to expand the scholarship program to cover a much
larger target group, to make a greater impact in bringing poor children into SLTP. The
current program would be augmented, with adaptations as follows: (a) scholarships would be
provided to 32,600 students; (b) unit costs would be set at Rp 25,000 average per student per
month; and (c) a simple monitoring mechanism will be implemented to make sure that funds
reach the recipients intact and that selection criteria are followed. By project mid-term
review, the entire program will be evaluated for impact. An attachment to this Annex
contains details of the criteria for award and monitoring the program.
Other Strategies to Increase Access. In addition to these strategies to increase
access by expanding the number of places in junior secondary education, the Government
has proposed other measures including supporting community construction of student
dormitories to increase opportunities for dispersed populations in rural areas. In many such
areas, students have already built, on their own, temporary accommodation, often of poor
quality and often beyond the financial resources of parents. The project would support their
efforts. Dormitories would be located according to priority in areas with low enrollment
rates, where such accommodation is culturally acceptable.
The lack of teachers in such areas is also a problem, and quality expansion relies on
attracting and retaining adequately trained staff. Options include increasing the number of
teachers in underserved areas through redeployment and support for the construction of
teacher accommodation. In many rural areas, there is no accommodation provided and none
to be rented. In some cases, teacher housing has been provided especially for single
teachers. An attachment describes criteria for providing financial assistance for student
dormitories and teacher accommodation.



72                       Annex 4: Page 4 of 4
The Project would also pilot a scheme for hiring contract teachers in schools in the
rural areas. Schools would be given contract positions for teachers, to allow them to hire
new teachers when a teacher leaves their position without authorization. This would reduce
turnover and absenteeism.



Annex 4: Attachment 1: Page 1 of 2           73
SELECTION CRITERIA FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES OF SCHOOLS
AND TEACHER HOUSES AND STUDENT DORMITORIES
A. School Location
1.    Priority for school construction will be given to locations in rural and poor areas.
2.    Priority will be given to those Kabupaten, and those Kecamatan within such
Kabupaten, with lowest gross enrollment or transition rates from SD/MI (primary) to
SMP/MTs (junior secondary).
3.    The proposal for the construction of a new school shall take into consideration
existing private SMP/MTs schools in the catchment area.
4.    The proposal for the construction of a project school shall be submitted to the Kanwil
through an official request by the Kakandep, and such proposal shall include
evidence of land availability.
5.    The request by the Kakandep for each project school shall be accompanied by a
school location map with the following descriptions:
(a)    Kabupaten and Kecamatan boundaries (include scale)
(b)    Rivers, bridges and main roads
(c)    Kabupaten/Kecamatan centers, other towns and villages
(d)    Existing SD/MI schools
(e)    Existing public SMP/MTs schools
(f)    Existing private SMP/MTs schools
(g)    Proposed location of new public and private SMP/MTs school if known
(h)    Proposed location of project SMP schools for the first year of the project
6.   The request from the Kakandep shall be in line with the school construction plan of
each district, which will be reviewed and updated annually.
B. Teacher Housing and Student Dormitories
I .   Priority shall be given to those Kabupaten, and those Kecamatan within such
Kabupaten with lowest gross enrollment and transition rates from SD/MI to
SMP/MTs.
2.   Teacher housing shall only be built in rural and poor areas, where teachers do not
have access to suitable accommodation at a reasonable distance from school.



74                  Annex 4: Attachment 1: Page 2 of 2
3.    The request for teacher housing and student dormitory construction shall be
submitted to the Kakanwil through Kakandep, and such proposal shall include
evidence of land availability and assurance of affordability for dormitory
maintenance.
4.    The request for teacher housing and student dormitory shall be culturally and socially
acceptable.
5.    For student dormitories, the distance between the residence of the pupils and the
school poses a serious constraint with respect to transport and access. The proposed
school dormitory shall serve SD/MI graduates in the surrounding areas.
6.    Preference shall be given to students living far away from the school and of poor
background.



Annex 4: Attachment 2. Page I of 1            75
CRITERIA FOR FINANCING OF CONTRACT TEACHERS
1.    The main purpose of the proposed contract teacher program is to address the shortage of
core subject teachers (Science, Mathematics, and English) in rural and poor areas.
2.    The position of contract teacher should be advertised in a local newspaper, on radio and
posted at the Kanwil and Kandep offices.
3.    The application for contract teacher should be submitted by the school principal to the
district head (Kakandep). The Kakandep with his/her recommendation will forward the
application to the selection committee at Kanwil office.
4.    The duration of the contract is three years and will be reviewed annually based on
satisfactory performance.
5.    A contract teacher should satisfy the following requirements:
(a)    Performance will be given to those with D3 qualification in related teaching
subject matter;
(b)    Agree to sign a three year contract to assigned in a public or private school in
rural or remote areas;
(c)    Will not claim any finanicial compensation upon the completion or
termination of the contract,
(d)    Agree that the contract will in no way entitle the teacher to automatically
become a permanenit teacher.
6.     Preference slhould be given to the existing "guru honor" and/or those who reside near by
the schools requesting contract teachers.
7.    A contract teacher should receive the same salary as for a permanent teacher (PNS) with
the same education qualification and experience, plus other fringe benefits provided by
the respective school to other permanent teachers.
8.    A contract teacher wil receive seven months extra salary, two months as installation
allowance at the beginning of the contract, two months for relocation at the end of the
contract, and one month per year as a Lebaran or New Year annual bonus.
9.    The Kakandeps taking part in the contract teacher program should commit themselves to
reduce the existing surplus and shortage of teacher between kecamatans in their
kabupaten.



76                 Annex 4. Attachment 3. Page 1 of 3
STUDENT SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
A. Background
Families in the lower income deciles bear large financial burdens when their children
attend junior secondary school, relative to the total monthly family expenditures (between
40% and 80%). These costs include school registration fees, tuition, parental contributions,
expenses for unifroms, transport, books and other costs. Furthermore, children from poor
families attending school incur additional costs in the form of foregone income they could
earn within or outside the household. Simulations, based on econometric modeling indicate
that abolishing school fees would raise the transition rate from primary schools to junior
secondary by 12%; subsidizing all school-related direct costs would raise the rate by 32%,
primarily bringing into school those children, whose parents value education, but cannot
afford to pay.
GOI is currently operating a nationwide scholarship program covering some 27,000
SLTP students. The scholarship consists of financial support amounting to RP 25,000 per
month for twelve months, an ample amount to cover all SLTP-related costs. A new fund
distribution mechanism has recently been implemented, with funds being distributed through
the post office. The fund provides scholarships to children of low economic background and
satisfactory academic achievement and personality. Within these criteria, preference is
given to children from remote areas, orphans and girls. The fund is operating well, and
though very limited, is much appreciated.
It is proposed to expand the scholarship program to cover a much larger target group
in the project area, so as to make a greater impact in bringing poor children into SLTP. The
current program would be augmented along the following lines: (a) scholarships would be
provided to 5,300 students in Aceh, 6,600 students in West Sumatra, 3,600 students in Jambi,
8,500 students in South Sumatra, and 8,600 students in Lampung; (b) unit costs would be set
at Rp 300,000 per student per year; and (c) a simple monitoring mechanism will be
implemented to make sure that recipients receive their full allocation and that selection
criteria are followed. By project mid-term review, the entire program will be evaluated for
impact.
B. Selection Criteria For Scholarship Recipients
1. The candidate is in grade six of primary school or is a primary school graduate.
2. Priority will be given to Kecamatan or less developed areas with low gross enrollment
rates at junior secondary education or low primary-secondary transition rates.
3. Priority will be given to students from low economic background (refer to a letter of
reference from head of the village where the student lives), to orphans and to females.
4. Preference will be given to students with good academic achievement scores validated
by the school principal.



Annex 4: Attachment 3. Page 2 of 3            77
5. The student is not receiving any other scholarship.
6. Scholarships will be awarded annually, and can be extended upon satisfactory of the
recipient.
C. Scholarship Distribution and Monitoring System
1. In consultation with teacher or headmaster, eligible students will apply for scholarships
to the head of MOEC district office (Kakandep) or to the head of MOEC provincial
office (Kakanwil).
2. The selection, reviewing, and awarding will be performed by the Scholarship Committee
at the Kanwil Office.
3. The scholarship recipient will receive a monthly stipend for twelve consecutive months,
starting from July until June of the following year. Funds will be made available through
the post office nearest to his/her school.
4. Stipend amount will be defined by MOEC and must be agreed upon by the Bank.
5. Scholarship funds will be disbursed by the Provincial Project's account and sent to the
head of Provincial Giro Office account, who will make them available to the recipients
through the Post Office.
6. Post Offices will report back to the head of the Provincial Giro Office, who will report
back to the Provincial Project Manager.
7. The effectiveness of the above distribution system will be monitored quarterly by
auditing the receipt forms filled out by the scholarship recipients. In addition, the
Scholarship Committee at Kanwil Office will monitor the system in the field by
interviewing a representative sample of scholarship recipients every year.
8. The above criteria would be applied according to an agreed weighted scoring system
using data from agreed sources.



78                                     Annex 4. Attachment 3. Page 3 of 3
,.............................................................................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Province
Provincial Project Manager
Account
Provincial Giro
Office Account
..................................................    ..........    ..................................... ........ ... ....... ...
Post
Offices
Recipient Account
Figure 1. Distribution and Monitoring System
of Scholarship Program



INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
ENROLLMENT TARGETS AND PROJECTIONS
94/95         95/96          96/97         97/98          98/99         99/00          00/01    Average
Growth Rate
DI ACEH
Population (13-15)                  269,000        273,100       277,000        282,900       287,100        291,300       294,900           1.93
SLTP Enrollment                      169,600       175,100        179,300       184,700       190,240        195,940       202,031           3.82
Gross Enrollment Rate                 63.05          64.12         64.73          65.29         66.26          67.26         68.51
IYESTSUMA TRA
Population (13-15)                  323,138        325,000       323,600        319,600       313,100        306,400       301,200          -1.36        A
SLTP Enrollment                     217,399        220,050       222,700        225,400       228,150        230,900       233,700           1.50        :
Gross Enrollment Rate                 67.28          67.71         68.82          70.53         72.87          75.36          77.59
JAMBI
Population (13-15)                   171,900       175,200        176,900       176,900        177,400       178,900        176,900          0.58
SLTP Enrollment                      118,459       123,060        127,860       132,840        138,020       143,400        148,600          5.09
Gross Enrollment Rate                  68.91         70.24          72.28         75.09          77.80         80.16          84.00
SOUTH SUMA TRA
Population (13-15)                   526,684       531,563        536,298       541,078        545,895       550,757        555,682           1.10
SLTP Enrollment                      282,601       298,500        315,300       333,000        351,700       371,500        392,350           7.77
Gross Enrollment Rate                  53.66         56.16          58.79         61.54          64.43         67.45          70.61
LAMPUNG
Population (13-15)                  487,200        490,600        492,800       492,100        490,400       488,600        487,700          0.02
SLTP Enrollment                     285,004        294,500        303,300       312,400        321,700       331,300        340,850          3.92
Gross Enrollment Rate                  58.50         60.03          61.55         63.48          65.60         67.81          69.89
All data from 1994/95; MOEC, Infonnatics Center.



80                      Annex 6: Page I of 4
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
TEACHER TRAINING AND SUPPORT
A.    Background
l.    Over the past twenty years the Indonesian government has provided two major kinds of
teacher education activities for its junior secondary school (SMP) teachers, pre-service education
and in-service education. In the 1 970s and 1 980s, when access to secondary education was
expanding very rapidly, there were chronic shortages of secondary school teachers. Thus, various
diploma programs were created to provide post-secondary pre-service teacher education
opportunities for new teachers. For many years the government operated a special one-year training
program (PGSMTP) for SMP teachers which provided D-1 certification; gradually preparation
shifted to IKIPs and FKIPs which offered two year D-ll programs. By the end of the 1980s, as
supply began to catch up with demand, all PGSMTP programs had been closed and D-11 programs
were being phased out. By the early 1990s, all secondary school teachers, SMA and SMP, were
expected to earn an SI university degree. At the same time, new elementary school teachers were
required to obtain D-II certification and practicing teachers assisted in upgrading to the D-ll level.
Under these conditions, it was considered necessary to provide D-III upgrading for SMP teachers.
This has been a large task since a majority of teachers still have D-1 or D-I1 qualifications. (The
proportion with below D-1I1 qualifications as of 1994/95 varied from 55% in West Sumatra to 95%
in Jambi.) D-III upgrading is now well underway in Science, Math, and English; it has recently
begun in Bahasa Indonesia; it has yet to begin in Social Studies.
2.    Also, as a consequence of the policy requiring 9 years of basic education (SD + SMP), more
SMPs are being opened in rural areas. Given the size of the catchment area in such areas, many of
these SMPs are quite small, having perhaps one or two classes per grade. In such circumstances it is
difficult to justify a full complement of teachers covering all subject areas. This means that many
teachers have to teach in more than one subject area. Under the recently launched, Bank-supported
Secondary School Teacher Education project many new SMP teachers will be prepared during pre-
service teacher education to teach more than one subject. For those who have already been pressed
into such service, special teacher certification programs are needed to help them become better
prepared to teach subjects in which they have not been trained.
3.    With respect to inservice of education, the country has succeeded over the past twenty years
in developing an extensive group of secondary school teachers into teacher trainers both at the
provincial and district levels. At the provincial level, instructors have been trained, many at the
advanced graduate level (MA) to plan school-based teacher education efforts (originally called
Pemantapan Kerja Guru or PGK, now usually referred to us Musyawara Guru Mata Pelajaran or
MGMP), to train the local tutors for those programs (Guru Inti), and to manage special PKG
programs (Model C) for teachers from remote area schools. Guru Inti (key teachers) have been
trained and commissioned to provide in-service activities at the district and sometimes school cluster
level. Whereas this program has provided invaluable human resources for school-based quality
improvement activities, in recent years the program has become routinized and therefore less



Annex 6: Page 2 of 4                             81
effective than original pilot activities. Now evidence of improved pedagogy is hard to find outside
the most favored schools in large urban centers. It can be said that Indonesian junior secondary
educators deliver a body of planned curricular content, but pay insufficient attention to what and
how pupils are learning. Thus, in order to improve teachers' classroom effectiveness, changes in
school-based teacher development activities are suggested in three areas:  curriculum  content,
delivery mechanisms and training program management. The recommendations for the reform of
the in-service teacher training component of the project are based on findings of the JGF-sponsored
report, "Secondary Education in Indonesia:  Strengthening Teacher Competency and Student
Learning."
B.    Project Activities
4.    The teacher training component of the current project will consist of three kinds of activities
for SMP teachers: a) strengthening and supporting teacher D-111 teacher upgrading activities; b)
supporting second-subject teacher certification activities; and c) reforming and supporting the
delivery of school-based teacher development activities.
5.    D-III Upgrading. This project element will consist of three sequenced stages:
first, a careful evaluation of past upgrading activities, focusing on the relevance of the curriculum
and training to teacher knowledge-development needs and the impact of programs on teacher and
student classroom performance; second, redesign of the upgrading program, including curriculum,
delivery systems, and evaluation methods, based on the evaluation results, and third, the
implementation of the D-III upgrading for up to 3900 teachers in the project's five Sumatra
provinces in the field of IPS and Bahasa Indonesia.
6.    Second-Subject Teacher Certification. This project element will provide teachers with the
opportunity for second-subject certification. Certification activities, managed either by the Open
Learning University (for distance education) or local teacher training Institutes or Faculties (lecture
mode), will cover 18-20 credit hours and will last about one year (two semesters). The program
focuses on the subject matter contained in the SMP curriculum (revised 1994). Participants are
expected to study in fields related to that of their original certification: science majors can certify in
math and vice-versa; history in geography and vice-versa, and Indonesia majors in English and vice-
versa.
7.    Although there are many teachers in other fields who are underutilized in small SMPs (e.g.,
art, music, skills, health and PE), this project will only cover those teachers who are known to be
teaching in two or more of the above interrelated fields. This project will thus begin by the
Kabupaten's drawing up a list of all teachers who qualify, complete with the subject areas in which
candidates need second-subject certification. This will be submitted to Kanwil which will develop a
plan for this activity, using either local instructions or the Open Learning University system,
depending on local circumstances.
8.    School-Based Teacher Development Activities. This project element will consist of two
distinct types of activities:  first, reforming the content of existing teacher in-service training
programs, and second, providing support for the reformed delivery and management of such teacher
training.



82                       Annex 6: Page 3 of 4
Training program reform. The content of all in-servicing activities are expected to be
revitalized, and as a result, future programs will pay much more attention to promoting
student learning than they do at present. Emphasis will be given to the development of
effective presenting, explaining, questioning, and probing techniques, so that teachers
become skilled in identifying and addressing students' learning strategies and difficulties.
Teachers will learn to construct open-ended formative tests for use in the classroom, and to
use the results to improve learning. The reform activity will be spearheaded under the East
Java and NTT Junior Secondary Education Project and its results will be applied to this
project.
Training Program Delivery and Management. There will be two basic delivery mechanisms
in the project for on-going teacher in-service education. The first is for teachers who work in
remote area schools, those for which travel to the nearest neighbor school takes a day or
more. This mechanism is currently referred to as PKG, Model C. Teachers from these
schools will receive in-service education having the following features:
* participating teachers (those teaching the 6 core curricular subjects) will receive block in-
service education at the province level managed by instructors. There will be three blocks in
a year before the beginning of trimester three (one week). In-service blocks will emphasize
the development of teacher skills in promoting student learning as mentioned in the
"program reform" section above; this they will do through discussion of essential subject
matter concepts and student misconceptions, observation of mastery lessons, and live
teaching opportunities.
* receiving "on-service" visits from the instructor at least three times a year, after every in-
service block. During these on-service visits, teachers will be observed teaching a lesson in
which they try to incorporate ideas covered during their in-service blocks; receive feedback
and guidance from the instructor; observe a model lesson presented by the instructor, if one
is considered useful; and discuss teaching progress and problems with the instructors,
together the school who are not currently in the in-service cycle.)
9.     The second mechanism  of in-service education is that provided within the context of a
cluster of schools, a new variation of the system now being called Musyawara Guru Mata Pelajaran
(MGMP), designed especially for schools in cities and easily accessible rural areas. This mechanism
will be implemented at the district level and will operate through clusters of neighboring schools
(five to eight, including private schools and madrasah tsanawiyah). Teachers will gather at the
cluster center for in-service activities at least five times a trimester under the leadership of the guru
inti, following which teachers will each receive on-service visits from the guru inti. These activities
will be essentially independent and self-financing, but will be eligible for Project support under
certain conditions (criteria to be defined in the implementation plan). More detailed features of the
system and its management are as follows:
*Management. The program will be managed by Ka Kandep or his/her representative,
working with group head teachers, who themselves represent the heads of their cluster of
schools. The management team will divide the district into clusters of appropriate size, and



Annex 6.: Page 4 of 4                              83
will be responsible for finances (particularly yearly requests for Project funding), the
maintenance of records, and arranging the guru inti's work schedules.
*Guru inti. Several sets of guru inti have already been trained at the district level. Given the
organization of school clusters as the site for cluster-based training, several more sets of guru
inti will need to be trained under the project (an average of 160 per province; training to be
at PPPGs in Java during two consecutive years). Two inodels of guru inti deployment are
possible (preferences to be refined during implementation planning): a) several sets of guru
inti will be selected from district schools -- but not necessarily all clusters -- and deployed in
cluster training and visits according to a district level deployment plan; b) one set will be
selected and trained from each school cluster and deployed in that cluster. In either    case,
official arrangements will need to be made (SKs) to maintain the guru inti's teaching load at
their own school at a reduced level (an average of 12 hours per week).
*Meetings. Cluster level teachers meetings will be held on a regular basis, approximately 15
times per year.  A cluster level management team  consisting of the head teachers of
theparticipating schools will set the timetable, but the guri inti will be responsible for
organizing and running the all-day meetings.
*School visits. Guru inti will carry out systematic visits to all junior secondary schools in the
cluster, public and private (if they are receptive), on a regular basis. During the visits, the
guru inti will observe a lesson taught by every teacher in her/his specialty area, provide
feedback and write a report highlighting achievements as well as identifying areas where
there is need for improvement. A file of reports will be maintained.
*Visits for the Provincial Team. Subject specialist pengawas (supervisors) and instructors
will visit each district on a regular basis to guide and monitor the guru inti 's work. They will
review the guru inti's work. They will review the guru inti's school reports and visit cluster
meetings.
*Incentives for improvement will be introduced including the display of outstanding
students' work at the cluster center, the presentation of model lessons by outstanding
teachers at special cluster meetings, and opportunities for upgrading (to SI) and promotion
for guru inti.
*Funding. The project will provide funding for guru inti training, travel to and preparation
for cluster meetings, travel for school visits. It will also contribute a small amount (Rp
25,000 per cluster) for materials and supplies. Teacher travel expenses and consumables
(e.g. meals and snacks) should be covered by their own schools (swadana) unless the
school's discretionary funds (BP3) are so small and/or travel is so expensive that the school
cannot cover them. In this case, the school is eligible to apply for project support to cover its
teachers' participation in cluster activities (up to Rp 1 0,000 per teacher per cluster meeting).



84                     Annex 7: Page I of 4
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT AND UTILIZATION COMPONENT
1.    Goals and Objectives of the Information Management and Utilization
Component
The overall goal of the IMUC is to have MOEC managers and staff making effective
management decisions and resource allocations based on timely, useful and accurate
information. To reach this goal, the IMUC proposes a strategy for improving information
management and utilization by MOEC managers and staff.
The basic approach is to make data available to user groups, provide them with tools
to analyze the data, train them to understand what the information means, and cultivate an
appreciation of information based decision making. This approach will focus on three
ingredients necessary for an effective JSEP-MIS: tools, skills and appreciation.
Each of the four information components have specific objectives:
FPM-Forecasting Planning and Monitoring: Kandep offices are able to produce
annual plans and monitor inputs, processes and outcomes throughout the year. This,
in turn, will lead to better planning, efficient allocation of resources and solution of
management problems.
SEMINS-Secondary Education Management Information System: Kandep,
Kanwil and PUSAT information staff are able to maintain data warehouses
(consisting of existing data sets) and use reporting tools to support decision making.
Similar to the FPM, managers will be able to analyze trends, identify problems and
follow up. Information and analytical tools are now placed closer to the providers
and immediate supervisors (i.e. Kandep offices and schools).
STOKK-School To Kandep and Kanwil information: School are better able to
manage and plan their resources, and Kandep offices provide direct support to
schools. Schools send quarterly data to Kandep offices (four indicators). Kandep
directly collect and process, and use the information produced for management
purposes (reduce dropouts, improve Ebtanes scores, reduce teacher classroom
absenteeism, etc.). Feedback reports are periodically sent to schools and followed
up.  As a result, the school management role of Kandep offices is significantly
increased, and they play a more active and supportive role.
Informatic Support: Hardware, software, skills and organization are available in
PUSAT, Kanwil and Kandep offices to support the management of information and
decision making. PUSAT and Kanwil offices will now have the tools, resources and
know-how to support their own managers, as well as Kandep offices and schools.



Annex 7: Page 2 of 4                       85
2.    Methodology and Subcomponent Description
The FPM is a forecasting, planning and monitoring tool to used for managing and
planning the JSEP. The SEMINS provides new information tools and skills to better use
existing data for decision making. The STOKK component is design to assist Kandep and
Kanwil offices to better support schools through the periodic collection and analysis of
school data. The informatic support component provides the tools, skills and other inputs
required by the FPM, SEMINS and STOKK.
(a) FPM: Forecasting, Planning and Monitoring Tool. The objective is to provide
reliable information on educational resource needs, develop plans based on needs and
available resources, monitor and manage the implementation process, and annually re-
plan to reach targets and utilize resources efficiently and effectively. Computerized
applications and manual forms will be developed and used for forecasting, planning and
monitoring. Technical guides will also be developed, and staff trained. The FPM is
developed largely for the JSEP and will be used to improve the current MOEC planning
process by providing a comprehensive analysis of past results, and explicit projections of
future objectives and required inputs.
The FPM is an information tool for translating SMP needs and available resources into
Kandep/Kanwil plans, monitoring the execution of JSEP results and activities, and then
reviewing the results and annually.  A cyclical planning-management approach is
proposed that forecasts needs, develops a plan (activities, time and budget), monitors and
manages the implementation process, and reviews and re-plans annually.
(b) SEMINS: Secondary Education Management Information System for Improved
Management Decision Making. The objective of SEMINS is to improve management
decision making and resource allocation through 1) providing timely/reliable information
in accessible formats, 2) improving data management, utilization skills and appreciation,
and 3) providing requisite hardware/software and support systems to insure data
processing and information production. The problem facing the JSEP is there are too
much data but limited information, analysis and utilization.   The SEMINS  aims to
better use existing data sets to monitor key indicators, identify problem areas and
implement solutions. The strategy is to provide information management tools, skills,
improved internal and external data sets, and management appreciation for informed
decision making. Information processing and analysis tools will be provided, and staff
will be trained how to use the tools and the information produced. The SEMINS will use
database applications and GIS to produce information in tabular, graphic and map
formats.
The SEMINS approach is to provide data analysis tools to managers who have been
trained to collect/process key data, identify problems and achievements, and utilize the
value of information for routine management and planning. The SEMINS will begin
with the formulation of a team, a systematic audit of existing information, selection of
key indicators to be viewed over time and cross-sectionally, followed by the design or
application of computer tools such GIS or interactive query programs.



86                     Annex 7: Page 3 of 4
(c) STOKK: Collection and Use of School Data in the Kecamaten, and Kandep and
Kanwil DIKMENUM Offices. The STOKK data management component will support
primarily Kandep and Kanwil offices by focusing on data from school and the direct
supervision and support by Kandep staff. Data from schools go directly to Kanwil and/or
PUSAT offices or are simply passed through Kandep offices with little processing,
analysis and feedback to schools. As a result, Kandep offices are often viewed as passive
conduits for data going to Kanwil and PUSAT offices.  Moreover, little feedback
information is received from higher level offices and virtually none is fed back to schools
(the basic information providers).  The STOKK approach proposes to address this
problem by providing information tools, skills and new roles to Kandep level staff.
The objective of the STOKK is to improve the direct management of schools by Kandep
offices (and the internal management of schools themselves) by providing Kandep
offices with the means to identify key problems areas and provide remedial action or
support.
The STOKK approach proposes to collect quarterly data from schools, compile the data
and analyze at the Kandep level, then feedback results to schools accompanied with
support and other remedial action. The content is very limited and focuses only on key
indicators: I ) quarterly Ebtanas scores. 2) teacher availability by subject area, 3)
coverage of classroom sessions by teachers, 4) number of students and dropouts, and 5)
availability of local school funds. The initial collection and scanning of Ebtanes sheets
would still be carried out in Kanwil offices (were OMRs)l but the results will be
immediately fed back to Kanwil offices and included on a Kanwil database showing
average scores for schools and trends. Items 2, 3, 4 and 5 will be collected on a small
form and transferred to Kandep offices directly. Kandep offices will be provided with
data management tools and skills to compile and use the information for routine
management and planning.
(d)    Informatics  Support  (hardware, softwvare, organization  and  skills).
Improvements in the information systems of' PUSAT, Kanwil and Kandep offices are
necessary to support the FPM, SEMINS and STOKK componenits. The following is a
description of the information improvement areas. These include 1) the development of
LANs in Kanwil offices that link data sets and users, 2) the maintenance of data bases in
PUSAT, Kanwil and Kandep level offices that allow access to key indicators by time, 3)
the provision of stand-alone computers to Kandep offices, 4) skill development and
guidelines, and 5) technical assistance to develop these systems. These improvements
will require the following informatic inputs: procurement and maintenance of hardware
(computers and peripheral equipment), software applications (off-the-self and custom
applications), and data sets (internal and external).
Related with the three core components is an effort to increase the appreciation of
managers regarding the utility and value of informationi. This will require improving the
accuracy and relevance of data for short and long-range decision making. Moreover
managers will require that information can be produced in formats that can be understand
and address salient questions. As a result, the plan for Informatic Support stresses the
need to develop informatic skills and organization at the PUSAT and Kanwil levels
Funding for the OMR readers to process Ebtanes scoresheets is not included in this budget.



Annex 7. Page 4 of 4                         87
which can, in turn, support Kandep staff and school head masters utilize information
more effectively.
LAN: procurement, allocation and deployment of Kanwil LAN: Kanwil LAN
systems that network various bidang and support data processing and reporting tools
will permit the sharing of data and improve access. The objective is to support a
Kanwil data warehouse (with data from schools, Kandep offices, Kanwil bidang and
the PUSAT office) that can be accessed by any Kanwil level bidang. A central
Information Unit (IU) should be established (with client workstations) to maintain
the LAN while cables would link all of the key bidang offices. Several Kanwil
offices already have a LAN and trained support staff that could serve as a model, as
well as the central DIKMENUM office.
Client Server Database Systems. Data warehouses of existing data, plus FPM and
STOKK, will require client server hardware and software support at the PUSAT and
Kanwil levels. Only stand alone (un-networked) PC's will be used in Kanwil offices.
Client server database software will be installed on the PUSAT and Kanwil level
LAN systems. Desktop versions of the same (or reduced) databases will be installed
on Kanwil computers.
Desktop "Stand-alone" Systems. Stand-alone computer systems will only be
installed in Kandep offices that have met certain criteria and are certified. Section
3.4.3 describes the hardware, software, training and technical assistance
requirements. Since Kandep offices will not receive computers until established
criteria are met, installation will be phased in over the first 1-2 years of the JSEP,
thus allowing all Kandep offices time for meeting the criteria and training of staff.
By the third year of the project, all Kandep offices are expected to have trained staff
and 3 operational computers.
Technical Assistance for Designing and Developing the 3 subcomponents. In each
of the four main information system components, technical assistance will be
provided by technical advisors, MOEC teams, Information Unit (largely for training
and maintenance support) staff, and Local Computer Groups.



88                      Annex 8: Page I of 6
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
Terms of Reference
Central Program Advisory Committee
Objective. To provide policy guidance to the Central Program Coordination Unit from
the perspective of education authorities both in the Directorate of Secondary Education and in
other relevant agencies and in MOEC and other ministries, and to provide a forum for
discussing education policy and planning issues which will have an impact on project
implementation.
Members. Chaired by the Director-General of Primary and Secondary Education, the
committee will comprise the following members:
(a) MOEC:
Secretary General
Director-General, Higher Education
Head, Research and Development Office
(b) Other Agencies:
Head, Bureau of Religion, Education, Culture and Sport, BAPPENAS
Director-General, Binbaga, MORA
Director-General, Budget, Ministry of Finance
Tasks. The tasks of the Central Program Advisory Committee will consist of:
(a)    Annual coordination meetings to review project progress and discuss major
policy issues affecting project implementation;
(b)    Annual review of provincial annual work plans and budgets;
(c)    Exchange information on medium and long-term education policies and plans.
Terms of Reference
Provincial Project Advisory Committee
Objective. The objective of the Provincial Project Advisory Committee is to ensure
that project implementation will be consistent with project objectives and Government policy.
The Committee will provide overall implementation guidance to the PPIU.



Annex 8: Page 2 of 6                          89
Composition. The Provincial Project Advisory Committee will be chaired by
KaKanwil and its membership will be comprised of related agencies and institutions dealing
with the education system.
Tasks. The advisory committee will give guidance to project implementors on the
merits of proposals submitted. The committee will review proposals from kabupaten and
kecamatan to make sure that annual work plans are in line with implementation criteria and
guidelines. This committee will work closely with the existing provincial Coordination Team
for Nine Years Basic Education (Tim Koordinasi Wajar). The advisory committee will meet at
least twice a year, or whenever major project decisions need to be made.
Terms of Reference
Central Program Coordination Unit
Objectives. The Central Program Coordination Unit (CPCU) will have three
objectives: (a) it will monitor overall progress, and ensure that project implementation (as it
unfolds through the Annual Work Plan and Budget process) is in accordance with project
objectives and agreed project criteria, rules and guidelines; (b) it will guide the provinces and
provide (or locate the sources of) the necessary technical assistance to ensure that the project
implements as planned; and (c) it will carry out central program activities that may affect more
than one project.
Composition Existing staff in Dikmenum, augmented as necessary by project-
financed consultants will be at the core of the management team.
Tasks, Roles and Responsibilities. The Director of Dikmenum will head the Central
Program Coordination Unit and coordinate the overall program of expanding junior secondary
education. An important function of the Central Program Coordination Unit will be to monitor
implementation achievements in the different provinces through progress reports and
monitoring indicators and to keep the Govemment and the Bank informed in this respect.
Dikmenum's role as the national level program coordination unit will be distinctly
different from the roles of the provincial (Kanwil) offices. As a program coordinator, its role
will be that of oversight and facilitation -- not implementation. Dikmenum will therefore: (a)
ensure that provincial implementation focuses on achieving their agreed project objectives as
measured through the agreed project-specific monitoring indicators; (b) assist the provinces in
establishing appropriate annual work plans and monitor that these are carried out in accordance
with agreed priorities, criteria and procedures; (c) help ensure timely preparation of regional
project budgets (DIP); (d) assist in establishing appropriate management information systems
(both financial and substantive) for use at the Kanwil level as well as at the National level; (e)
disseminate infornation to the provinces in order to highlight promising regional approaches in
the design of Annual Work Plans and Budgets; and (f) identify or provide technical assistance
to the provinces to ensure compliance with agreed project-specific criteria, rules and
regulations.



90                          Annex 8: Page 3of6
CENTRAL PROGRAM COORDINATION UNIT (CPCU)
DIRECTOR GENERAL                      ADVISORY
rWord                  Primary and Secondary                COMMITTEE
Bank                   Education (DGPSE)         . -     DGPSE (Chairman)
Office of ERD. MOEC
Bureau Planning. MOEC
Bureau ESCR, BAPPENAS
Budgeting Div, MOF
PROGRAM DIRECTOR
....................  (DIRECTOR DIKMENUM)
National Advisor/Senior Project
Coordinator
International Advisor
CPCU MANAGEMENT:                             LIAISON OFFICE:
Project Manager,                           Sumatra Project
Treasurer,
Administration Officer,                      Central Indonesia
Technical Officer                              Project
East Java and East Nusa
Tenggara Project
National
~~~~~~.....................................  . . . .. . . . ...    .................................................... . . . . . . .
Province
Provincial Project
Directors
(1 1 provinces)
Administration Officer:
(Procurement and Disbursement)
Technical Officer:
(School Quality/Teacher Development,
Planning and Management, School
Construction, Monitoring & Evaluation)



Annex 8: Page 4 of 6                          91
Linkages to the Provincial Teams. Dikmenum will also help design and implement
national and provincial capacity building plans as the project unfolds. This will include
assisting the provinces establish appropriate project information systems and procedures on the
principle that relevant information from one system will feed into the next system, and that
there will be meaningful back and forth flow of information across administrative levels.
Supervisory Functions. Dikmenum will have a procurement supervisory function to
help ensure that the project is implemented in accordance with the stipulations of the Loan
Agreement and the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The CPCU will appoint procurement
specialists to provide training and technical assistance to PPIUs in the preparation of
procurement documents and to review documents from the provinces to ensure that they are in
line with project procurement guidelines.
Terms of Reference
Provincial Project Implementation Unit
Objectives. In order to get the project effectively implemented, the projects will be
executed through existing line authorities at the Kanwil level. There will be no expansion of
staff positions: existing positions will be used, and/or converted temporarily for project use as
and when necessary. Similarly, there will be no structural changes in the administrative
system.
Team, Organization and Responsibilities. Project-specific task forces, commensurate
with the focus and specificity of each of the provincial projects will be established as
necessary. Each of these task forces will be composed of existing staff at the Kanwil-level, and
-- where appropriate -- at the Kandep level. These task forces will grow and contract as
necessary during project implementation.
KaKanwil in each Province will be responsible for project implementation. To lend a
focal point to the proposed implementation arrangements, a Provincial Project Implementation
Unit (PPIU) under the overall leadership of KaKanwil, will be established in each Province.
This PPIU, managed by the head of the secondary education group (Kabid-Dikmenum) or a
Dikmenum staff member working under his/her supervision, will form the core of the proposed
implementation arrangement. The manager of the PPIU will be responsible for the day-to-day
management of the project and will report to KaKanwil on all matters pertaining to the project.
He/she will also keep the project authorities in Jakarta (Dikmenum) informed about progress,
including any events that threatened progress, such as the lack of human or financial resources
to resolve emerging problems. If necessary, one full-time monitoring officer and one or two
support staff will assist the manager of the PPIU in keeping track of implementation progress.
The PPIU will be assisted by a technical resource group in each province for the
duration of the project. The duties of this group, including that of consultants, will be to assist
in technical analysis of sector issues, prepare annual plans and detailed project designs,
troubleshoot on an ad-hoc basis, and conduct staff training/guidance. The technical resource
group will have access to other staff resources (including those from IKIPs/Universities) with
specialized project-related skills.



92                         Annex 8: Page 5 of 6
PROVINCIAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PPIU)
PROGRAM
DIRECTOR
PROVINCIAL
PROJECT DIRECTOR                  PROJECT ADVISORY
(Head, MOEC Provincial ..COMMITTEE
Off(ice/ Kakanwil)              Kakanwil (Chairman)
Head, Secondary Ed
Head, Planning Div.
Head, Facility Div.
Head, Personnel Div.
Education Division, Gov.
Off.
Public Works Div, Gov.
Off.
Province Finance Off.
KPKN
BAPPEDA
MPS (Council for Private
Education)
PROJECT MANAGER
Kabid Dikmenum
Treasurer, Administration
Of ficer
Province
.. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . ........  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .
District
DISTRICT
TASK FORCE
(Head of District MOEC
Office, Kakandep)



Annex 8: Page 6 of 6                      93
Tasks. Under the PPIU, there will typically be the following five divisions to carry out
the following functions: (a) Procurement and Civil Works; (b) Quality Improvement;
(c) Accounting; (d) Progress Monitoring; and (e) Supervision and Evaluation.
Relationship with the CPCU. Each Provincial Project Implementation Unit will work
in close liaison with the Central Program Coordination Unit in Jakarta. All official project
correspondence with the Bank will be channelled through DGPSE, except as specifically
delegated by the Director-General.
Advisory Committee. A Provincial Project Advisory Committee (see separate terms
of reference) will provide overall implementation guidance to the PPIU.



94                         Annex 9. Page I of 2
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Introduction
1.    This Annex describes how project progress will be monitored and impact will be
evaluated. Reporting on monitoring and evaluation results will be done within the context of
Bank progress reporting. Project progress reporting will be on a semi-annual cycle. The
half-yearly progress report will cover the project status (physical progress. financial and
performance status) and will include status of the perforimanice indicators. The program
report will be prepared in advance of the half-yearly Batik supervisioni missions. Details of
progress reporting are described here.
Project Monitoring Indicators
2.     Project status will be monitored through performiance and output indicators (see
Annex 13). Project progress and performance will be monitored on the basis of several types
of indicators:
(a)    Progress Monitoring Agaitist the Implementation Plan
Annex 12 (Implementation Plan) gives hinformationi on the milestones, dates
and tasks to be carried out during the implementation process. At each
supervision mission, these will be reviewed, their status assessed, and the
Plan updated to reflect progress. The updated version of the lmplementation
Plan would indicate actual versus planned  ilmplementation and slhow
adjustments made accordingly.
(b)    Ouantitative Indicators
In each progress report and at each supervision, the indicators as listed in
Annex 10 will be reviewed. The actual against planned data will be filled out
by the PlUs, and will be discussed during supervision.
(c)    Qualitative Indicators
At each supervision mission, an evaluation will be undertaken by the
supervision team of progress regarding qualitative indicators. The PlUs will
mention, in the progress report, the status of these indicators, which will then
form the basis for the supervision discussion. For each indicators, specific
evidence of progress should be provided.



Annex 9: Page 2 of 2                     95
Format of Progress Report
3.    The half-yearly progress report should be organized in the following way and should
include the following sections:
(a)    A narrative section describing progress of each of the components: Issues
that have arisen, problems, delays, suggested changes, decisions made in the
last year should be included for each relevant component.
(b)    An update of the indicators: Actual status against planned implementation,
quantitative and qualitative indicators.
(c)    A section listing the recommendations and agreements made during the last
Bank supervision mission and actions or present position.
(d)    A list of all contract activities expected during the next year and half-year.
(e)    A set of tables covering the following:
* Expenditures to date (SAR plan and current status) shown by category of
expense and by component and status of civil works (number of
contracts, location, type of school covered and cost for each contract);
* Training activities (SAR plan and current status): number and type of
training courses, number of participants, duration of each course, cost of
each course;
*  Status of Technical Assistance contracts (foreign and local): number of
person/months planned and currently used, costs of contracts and status
of disbursement.
(f)    A report from the auditing consultants (whenever available).
Additional Reports and Reviews
4.    A few special reviews will also be carried out during project implementation, to
further support monitoring of progress. These reviews will be carried out by independent
external consultants and will be managed by the Project Coordination Unit in Dikmenum.
(a)    Survey, in preparation for mid-term, to evaluated progress in improving
management skills and processes in Kanwils and Kandeps;
(b)    Annually, a review of expenditures of government funds by private schools;
(c)    Annually, monitoring of the effectiveness of the scholarship fund selection
and distribution; and
(d)    At mid-term, a review of the effectiveness of the contract teachers program.
Supervision Schedule
5.    Supervision missions will be held twice a year, during the project implementation
period. A planned mission schedule is listed in Annex 11. The mid-term review mission will
consist of a more thorough review; this mission will review overall progress since the
beginning of the implementation period, and will evaluate the need for adjustments or
restructuring of the project for the remainder of the project period.



96                                   Annex 10: Page 1 of ]
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A. MAIN INDICATORS
Project Development                      Key Perfomnance Indicators                       Monitoring and Supervision
Objectives
1. Improving Access to   I. Increase enrollment as a percentage of total capacity of created    I. MOEC data on enrollments in
JSE                      schools: 25% in first year, 50% in second year, 75% in third year.  project schools.
2. Improving Quality of   2. Impact on NEM scores for core subjects. Expected to increase   2. NEM scores according to school
JSE                      during the project by at least 10% for each subject in project  type, subject and geographic area.
provinces
3. Strengthening Educa-   3. Percent of budget spent and targets met annually: 80-92%.  3. Review of annual budget spent
tion Management                                                                       and targets met each year over the
project period in each province.
B. OTHER INDICATORS
Project Development                      Key Performance Indicators                       Monitoring and Supervision
Objectives                                                                           .-
1. Improving Access to    1. Scholarships awarded and contract teachers hired as a    Review of annual plans.
JSE, (emphasis in remote  percentage of those planned. Expected to be not less than 90%.
areas)
2. Impact on private education trends. Expected to keep total  MOEC and MORA statistics.
enrollments in private schools at least at the 1994/95 level*
2. Improving Quality of   1. Repetition rates in regular SMPs. Expected to keep total  MOEC statistics by Kandep
JSE.                     enrollments in private schools at least at the 1994/95 level**
2. Drop-out rates in regular SMPs. Expected to be reduced    MOEC statistics by Kandep
progressively to a maximum of 2.5% by the end of the project***
3. Keep drop-out rates in Terbuka schools less than 10% in the  MOEC statistics, Mother school data
first year and 5% in the second and third years (now up to 50%
overall drop-out rates)
Supervision missions
3. Strengthening Educa-   1. Availability and consistency of data collected at the Kanwil,
tion Management          Kandep and school levels
Supervision missions
2. Effectiveness in organizing and running project Terbuka schools
1. Adherence to project implementation schedule and revisions as   Supervision missions. Review of
agreed in annual implementation plans. Compare targets and   progress and audit reports
4. Overall               achievements for each project component: (a) number of schools
Implementation           and other physical facilities established; (b) number of
Performance              scholarships awarded and contract teachers hired; (c) number of
teachers, principals and other staff trained by type of program; (d)
provision of learning materials to public and private schools; (e)
provision of management tools to Kanwils, Kandeps and schools;
(f) utilization of technical assistance
2. Timely submission of progress and audit reports and annual
implementation plans
*Aceh: 29,000--W.Sumatra:37,000--Jambi:36,000--S.Sumatra:  13,000--Lampung: 157,000
"*Repetition rates in 94/95 are: Aceh: 2.0/6--W.Sumatra: 1.60/o--Jarnbi: 1.10/o--S.Sumatra: 1.20/o--Lampung: 0.2%
***Drop-out rates in 94/95 are: Aceh: 4.9/--W. Sumatra: 2.2/6--Jambi: 6.4%/--S. Sumatra: 3.60/--Lampung: NA



Annex II: Page I of]                       97
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
SUPERVISION PLAN
.~~..............~~...  M~~*m     Obj~~vtiv~s ...... .......Jo
January 1997     Project Launch          Education Specialist                 2
Workshop               Implementation Specialist             2
Human Resource Economist             I
.................. ......................... ..........................................................................................................................................................................
June 1.997       Review of Aceh, West Education Specialist                    2
Sumatra                Implementation Specialist             2
January I9       Review of Jambi,        Education Specialist                 2
South Sumatra,         Implementation Specialist             2
Lampung
June 12~ Review of Aceh, West Education Specialist                            2
Sumatra               limplementation Specialist             2
January 199      Review of Jambi,        Education Specialist                 2
South Sumatra,         Implementation Specialist             2
Lampung
June 1~2~        Review of Aceh, West Education Specialist                    2
Sumatra                Implementation Specialist             2
January 2000     Mid-term Review of   Education Specialist                    3
all provinces and plan  Implementation Specialist            3
for last years         Human Resource Economist              3
June 2JMIQ       Review of Jambi,        Education Specialist                 2
South Sumatra,         Implementation Specialist             2
Lampung
January 2001     Review of Aceh, West Education Specialist                     2
Sumatra                Implementation Specialist             2
June 2001.       Review of Jambi,        Education Specialist                 2
South Sumatra,         Implementation Specialist             2
Lampung
January 202      Implementation          Education Specialist                  2
Completion Report    Implementation Specialist               2
Human Resource Economist             2
.-i .    .   :  .  ..9.  .



INDONESIA - SUMATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Activities and Implementation Plan
1997          1         1998                     [9992000                                         2
ID    Task Name                             Durat o    Start      Finish    Q4~ 01   02 0        42 03 Q03 04j                             2 3Q J            I   02   03   0-4  01   02
1    I SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION                   237.4w   10/31196   5/18/01   ~ 
2        1.1 Fiscal year 1997/98                80w   10/31/96   5/13/98  d-
3             1. 1.1I Determine school locatio  lOw   10/31/96     1/8/97   zz
4             1.1.2SIteacquisition              low      1/9/97   3/19/97
5             1. 1. 3 Design prooess             Sw    3/20/97   5/14/97
6             1.1.4 Bidding Procedure            12w    5/15/9W    8/697
7             1. 1.5 Contract decision           2w      8/797   8/20/97
8         ~~~1.1.6 Bank Review                6w    8/21W9    10/1/97
9             1.1.7 Constructin contract        lew    10/2/7      2/4/96
10            1.1.8 Furnish schools               SW     2/5/9      4/1/98                                   71
11            1.1.9 Evaluate results              6w     4/2/98     i 5/1/98.
`12      11.2 Fiscal year 1o9899                sow  110131197   6/1 3/99*--
13            1.2.1 Determine school locatio     10w   10/31/97     1/8/98                          Z___
14            1.2.2 Site acquisition             low     '1/9/98   3/19/98                                __
,15           1.2.3 Design process                Ow    3/20/98   5/14/98                                     ___
16            1.2.4 Biddirng Procedure           11w    5/15/98   7/30/98
17            1.2.5 Contract decision             2w    7/31/98    8/13/98      .
18            1.2.6 Bank Review                   6w    8/14/98   9/24/98
19            1.2.7 Construction contract        19w    9/25/981   214/99
20            1.2.8 Furnish schools               8w     2/5/99     4/1/99
21            1.2.9 Evaluate results              6w     4/299   5/13/99
22       1I.3 Fiscal year 1999100              80.6w    111/2/98   5/`16/00
23            1.3.1I Determine school locatio    lOw    1112198     118/99
24            1.3.2 Site acquisition             low    1/11/99   3/19/99
25            1.3.3 Design process                8W     4/1/99   5/26/99                                                               rz
26            1.3.4 Bidding Procedure            11w    5/27/99   8/11/99                                                                   V7777
1, 7/30/96. DIV DISKI@EA3PH@WORLDBANKODUCEStSESUM\SUMATRA.MPP



INDONESIA - SUMATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Activities and Implementation Plan
1997                    1998                     1999                    2000                     2
ID    Task Name                             Duratio    Start    Fiis         4   Q1    02   03   04   01   02   030Q1 0                        0       4 0         2     3    Q      1 0
27             1.3.5 Contract decision            2w    8112199   8/25/99 
28             1.3.6 Bank Review                  6w    8/26/99    10/6199                                                       ._
29             1.3.7 Construction contract       18w    10/7/99     219/00      a___
30             1.3.8 Furnish schools              Bw    2110/00     4/4/00
31            1.3.9 Evaluate results              6w     4/5/00   5/16/00                                                                                       G
32        1.4 Fiscal year 2000101                81w    11/1/99    6/15/1                                                                             _________________
33            1.4.1 Determine school locatio     low    1 1/1/99    1/7/0
3.4           1.4.2 Site acquisition             low    1/10/00   3/17/00
35            1.4.3 Design process                8w    3/20/00   5/1 1/00
36        ~~1.4.4 Bidding Procedure          1w     5110       72/0         .__
37            1.4.5 Contract decision             2w    7/27/00     8/9-/00.                                                                                     
38            1.4.6 Bank Review                   6w    8/10/00   9/20/00
39            1.4.7 Construction contract        19w    9/21/00    1/31/01
40             1.4.8 Fumnish schools              SW     2/1/101   3/28/01
41            1.4.9 Evaluate results              7w    3/29/01    5/15/01                                                                                                                            t
42~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDONESIA - SUMATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Activities and Implementation Plan
1997                   1998                  1999                   2000                   2
ID   Task Name                           Duratio    Start    Finish   Q4   01   02   Q3   04   Q1   Q2   03   04   01   02   Q3   Q4   Q1   02   03   04   01   02
53   2 SCHOLARSHIPS                         216w     4/1/97   5/16/01
54       2.1 Fiscal Year 1997/98             58w     4/1/97   5/11/98
55           2.1.1 Determine budget and nr    lw    4/1/97    4i7197
66           2.1.2 Request applications       Bw    4/aU97    6/2/97
57           2.1.3 Select students            4w    6/3197   6/30/97                co
58           2.1.4 Provide scholarships      39w     7/1/97   3/30/98
59           2.1.5 Evaluate Results           6w    3/31/98   5/11/98      .                                                                    .:
60       2.2 Fiscal Year 1998/99             59w     4/1/98   5/18/99      .                                _      _     _      _
61           2.2.1 Determine budget and nr    1w    4/1/98    4/7/98       .
62           2.2.2 Request applications       8w    4/8/98    6/2/98                                    _r:
63           2.2.3 Select students            4w     6/3/98   6/30/98
64           2.2.4 Provide scholarships      40w     7/1/98    4/6/99
65           2.2.5 Evaluate Results           6w    4/7/99   5/18 / 99i
66       2.3 Fiscal Year 1999/00             59w     4/1/99   5/16/00
67           2.3.1 Determine budget and nr    1w    4/1/99    4/7/99
68           2.3.2 Request applications       8w    4/8/99    6/2/99                                                           0.
69           2.3.3 Select students            4w    6/3/99   6/30/99
70           2.3.4 Provide scholarships      40w      7/1/99    4/4/00
71           2.3.5 Evaluate Results            6w     4/5/00   5/16/00                            ..                                                  e2
72       2.4 Flscal Year 2000/01              59w     4/3/00   5/16/01     .
73           2.4.1 Determine budget and nr     1w    4/3/00    4/7/00
74           2.4.2 Request applications        8w   4/10/00    6/2/00
76           2.4.3 Select students             4w     6/5/00   6/30/00
76           2.4.4 Provide scholarships       40w     7/1/00    4/4/01
77           2.4.5 Evaluate Results            6w     4/5/01   5/16/01
78
Proje33: SUMATRA Jr SECONDARY3TaskISummSryRSlledUUAPRogres
Date:7129196                        Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Milestone         *RoIL-d Up MilesoneO
3, 7130196, DIV DISK1@EA3PH@WORLDt3ANK\D)UCES\SESUM\~SULMATRA.MPP



INDONESIA - SUMATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Activities and Implementation Plan
1997                    1 998                    1999                   ~2000                     2
ID    Task Name                             Duratio    Start      Finish    04   01   02   03   0 4   01   02   03_  04   0,1102   03   04   01   02   0 3_ 04-  01    02
79    3 MODULIES FOR SMP TERBUKA              169.2w     711197   9122/00                   ________________________________
80        3.1 Fiscal Year 1997/98               12w      711197   9/22/97                    - L
81            3. 1.1 Distribution of materials   12w     7/1/97   9122/97
82            3.1.2 Tutor Training                2w     7/1/97    7/'14/97 
83        3.2 Fiscal Year1998/99                12w      7/1198   9122198
84            3.2.1 Distribution of materials    12w     7/1/98    9/22/98                      ~z
85            3.2 2 Tutor Training                2w     7/1/98   7/14/98
86        3.3 Fiscal Year 1999100               12w      7/11199    9/22/99
87            3.3.1 Distribution of materials    12w     7/1/99    9/22/99
88            3.3.2 Tutor Training                2w     7/1/99    7/14/99
89 34Fiscal Year2000/01                   12w     713/00    9/22/00
90            3.4.1 Distribution of materials    12w     7/3/00   9/22/00
91            3.4.2 Tutor Training                2w     7/3/00    7/14/00
92
_9_                 ___3
94~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4.73/6  I   IK@AP@OLDAKiUE6EU\UAR    P



INDONESIA - SUMATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Activities and Implementation Plan
1997     ~    ~1    1998                   1999                    2000                    2 
ID   Task Name                             Duratio    Start    Finish    04   01 02 0            04   01   02   03   04   01   02   03   04   010Q0                      4    1 0
105   4 TEACHER TRAINING                      200w      7/11/97   4125101
106       4.1 Fiscal Year 1997/98              43w      711197   4/27198                  _________
107           4.1.1 PKG Program                  3w     7/1/97   7/21/97
100           4.1.2 Prinicpal Training           3w     7/1/97   7/21/97
109           4.1.3 MGMP Program               40w    7/22/97   4/27/98                    V7777~
110       4.2 Fiscal Yearl998/99               43w      7/1/98   4/27/99                                          _________
ill           4.2.1 PKG Program                  3w     7/1/98   7/21/98
112           4.2.2 Prinicpal Training           3w     7/1/98   7/21/98
113           4.2.3 MGMP Program               40w    7/22/98   4/27/99
1114      4.3 Fiscal Year 1999/00              43w      7/1/99   4/25/00                                                                  _________
115           4.3.1 PKG Program                  3w     7/1/99   7/21/99                                                                 Nz
118           4.3.2 Prinicpal Training           3w     7/1/99   7/21/99                                                                 C
117           4.3.3 MGMP Program               40w    7/22/99   4/25/00
118       4.4 Fiscal Year2000/01               43w      7/1/00   4/25/01                                                                                          _________
119           4.4.1 PKG Program                  3w     7/1/00   7/20/00                                                                                         0
120           4.4.2 Prinicpal Training           3w     7/1/00   7/20/000
121           4.4.3 MGMP Program                40w    7/21/DO   4/25/01
122   5 TEACHER HOUSING                      192.8w     4/1/97   12/6/00
123       5.1 Fiscal Year 1997/98               36w     4/1/971  12/8/97            ________
124           5.1.1 Determine nr, location       8w     4/1/97   5/26/97
125           5.1.2 Build dormitories           24w    5/27/97  11/10/97                V7777_____7__
126           5.1.3 Evaluate results             4w   11/11/97   12/8/97
127       5.2 Fiscal Year 2000)01               36w     4/1/00   12/6/00 6______
128           5.2.1 Determiine nr, location      8w     4110    5/25/00
129           5.2.2 Build dormitories           24w    5/26/00   1 1/8/D00
130           5.2.3 Evaluate results             4w    11/9/00   12/6/00



INDONESIA - SUMATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Activities and Implementation Plan
1997                    199                      1999                    2000                     2
ID    Task Name                             Duratio    Start      Finish    04 Q         2 0          4 0         2    Q3   04   01   02   03   0-4   01   02   03   04   01    02
11 6 MANAGERIAL TRAINING                     165w    10/1/97  11/24/00                          ___________________________________
132       6.1 Fiscal Year 1997/95                 Bw    10/1/97  11/26/97
133       ~~~6. 1.1 Training program          8w     101/7 11259
13.4       6.2 Fiscal Year'1998/99                Bw    10/1/98  11/125/98
135            6.2.1 Training program             8w    10/1/98  11/25/98
136       6.3 Fiscal Year 1998/99                 8w    10~O/1/99  11/25/99                                                                         J.1
137            6.3.1 Training program             8w    10/1199  11/25/99
138       6.4 Fiscal Yearl999iOO                  Sw    10/2/00  11/24/00                                                                                                   I
139            6.4.1 Training program             8w    10/2/00   11/24/00
140   7 INFORMATION MANAGEMENT                  236w    10/1/196    4/4/01 
141       7.1 Tec-hnical Assistance             100w    10/1/96   8/31/t98 ...  ....
142       7.2 Training                          210w      4/1/97    4/4/01                                                         ....
143   8 COMPUTER AND OFFICE EQUIPME              52w      1/11198  12/30/98                              _________
144       8.1I Computer Equipment                52        /19     2/09
145       8.2 Office Equipmentn                  24w.   1/1/98,  6/1 7/98
6. 7/30/96. DIV DiSKi@EA3PH-iWORLDBANKMUCES%SESUM%SUMATRA.MPP



Indone..ia
Sumtra Junior Secondary Education Project
xapeoditure kAccunts by Comornent. - Bass Costs
(US$ ' 000)
Strengthen Education
Increase Access to JSE                                          Imorovo Ouality                      MScrenge en Ent               So.nort Project Ma.a.ement
Alternative                      Teacher A                   Tools for    Student                      Education                 Provincial  Central   Monitoring
Regular      Equivalency   Scholarship          Student        Teacher    Effective  Performance  Contract   Management  Information  Project    Project                    and
Sch-ols             n           SZAm    AccPwdatia      i    TrainIn       T-chin    AunOssmcnL    Te-bhera  CSaU-itA               Managef ..t   .....en           enataga   AIltiM n _ tl_
I.  aeatmat Costs
A. Civil Socks
1. Re. Construction                      45,103               -                -          6,5,915
CEqipmt L Pucniture                          4,722             2                                438                                                                             2,615                                            29 -7
C. Motorcycles-                                                 296                       -              -                                                                                                                     7         ---- 2%
D. Educational Material /a                        -          3,552                -                             6       12.246                                         -            -                                      -  15,85
R. training
1. In Country Training                         -            829                -               -       18,658             -             -             -        1,038         1,462            -            -           -  21,987        A
. technical Asaistan.e
I  Doestic Consultants                         -              -                -               -          325             -             -             -             -            -       1,602          246       1,068   3,441        t
2.  International ConsaultantC                 -                               -               -                          -             -             -             -            -            -       I 261            -      1 3)
Sabtotal Tech-ical Assa4tanc                      -               -               -               -           415             -             -            -             -             -       1,802        1,508       1,06B   4,792    Oi
G. Scholarahips                                   -               -         12,587                 -            -             -             -             -            -             -            -           -            -  12.587       f
H. Contract Teachers                              -               -               -                -            -             -             -        3,644             -             --                                        3.844
1. Operating Costs /b                                                                                          54                                        -             -                     296              -            -   3014
total Inesatmeat Costa                           49.024           4,677          12,587           7,250        19,133        12,246             -         3,844        1.038         4*077        4,762       1,508        1,068 122,015       0
11. RC... ant Coats
A. Terbuka Operations                             -          4 124                -                -                                                                                                                            4 124 -
Total 2EcCc-nt Coats                                   -          4 1" 2                       -                                                                                                                                    4 -    -  --  -  -  -  -  -  124  k)
Total IA8ELImE COSTS                              49,824           8,801          12,587            7.20        19,133        12,246              -        3,844         1.038        4,077        4,762       1.508        1,061 126,139
Physical Contingencies                                -                               -               -
Pr ice Cont ingenciesa                 ,...... 3...jAf  1..... 90ID2 -                               0         3... 97L2 ...........21 _434 __    7........             250l          48.. 2,........SI        2A.2.A .f.82
Total PEIOJEC  COSTS                              55,660          10.703          12,587             8078       23,105        14.680                       47632        1,288         4,559        5,795        1,642       1.323 144,031
Tames                                            5.065             104                -             733             -             -            -             -             -          250            -            -            -   6,153
Foreign Erchange                                15,675           1,430                -          2,269         3,088         1,947             -             -          167         2,123          506       1,086          114  28,405
\s Ine. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Inl. enpenditur*s for travei,per diem, honoraria & consuables



Annex 13: Page 2 of 32                                       105
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Base Cost
96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00   00/01 a a/a a       Total
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                              -  16,516  16,741  16,517         50        -  49,824
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs             -   1,575   1,887   2,188   2,480         671   8,801
3. Scholarship Program                          -   3,147   3,147   3,147   3,147           -  12,587
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation              -   2,614   2) 595.2041            -        - 7 250
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE                     -  23,852  24,370  23,893   5,677        671  78,463
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                            72   2,905   5,275   4,963   4,814   1,103  19,133
2. Tools for Effective Teaching                 -   2,208   3,387   3,441   2,536         674  12,246
4. Contract Teachers                            -      96S      965     965      949        - 3,844
Subtotal Improve Quality                          72   6,078   9,628   9,369   8,298   1,777  35,223
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity               16      116      200     286      221      199   1,038
2. Information Management                       -   1.205 1W 861        4S2       388      170   4A077
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management          16   1,322   2,061        738     609      369   5,115
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management              238      952      952     952      952      714   4,762
2. Central Project Management                 108      438      393     240      186      141   1,508
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                    -                 4214  214  21  214      214   1,068
Subtotal Support Project Management              346    1. 604 1559 1. 406   169Q   3852   1     0  7338
Total BASELINE COSTS                              435  32,857  37,618  35,406  15,937   3,886 126,139
Physical Contingencies                            -        -        -        -       -        -        -
Price Contingencies                               3   11398   4.169 6. 616 __A_111  1.9595  17J892
Total PROJECT COSTS                               437  34,255  41,787  42,022  20,048   5,481 144,031
Taxes                                              -   1,952   2,131   2,037        33        -   6,153
Foreign Exchange                                129   8,219   9,303   8,073   2,023         659  28,405
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00   ao/ol   01/a         Tatal
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                              -  17,268  18,670  19,664         58        -  55,660
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs             -   1,657   2,138   2,675   3,275         958  10,703
3. Scholarship Program                          -   3,147   3,147   3,147   3,147           -  12,587
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation              -   2J733   2.895  _2430           -        --805
Subtotal Increase Access to JSB                     -  24,805  26,849  27,915   6,480        958  87,008
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                            73   3,058   5,988   6,074   6,356   1,556  23,105
2. Tools for Effective Teaching                 -   2,325   3,845   4,211   3,348         952  14,680
4. Contract Teachers                            -   1.022 __1_ 11  1.208   I .290           - 4632
Subtotal Improve Quality                          73   6,405  10,943  11,493  10,994   2,508  42,417
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity               16      123      227     350      292      281   1,288
2. Information Management                       -   1.240  _.2014       553  5...12       240  4.559
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management          16   1,363   2,240        903     804      521   5,847
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management              240   1,005   1,086   1,174   1,270   1,020   5,795
2. Central Project Management                 109      452      425     273      215      169   1,642
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                    -      225      244     263      28a      30S   lj323
Subtotal Support Project Management              348   1W682 1. 75L4 ..1.        .. 1.770 1. 494   8L760
Total PROJECT COSTS                               437  34,255  41,787  42,022  20,04B   5,481 144,031



106                              Annex 13: Page 3 of 32
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
(uS$ '000)
Foreign
Base Cost                             Exchange
96/97   97/a8   98/99   99/00   00/01   01/a a      Total    W    Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction                   -  17,432  17,602  16,881          -        -  51,915   30.0 15,574
B. Equipment & Furniture                  -   2,846   3,202   1,676        50         -   7,775   44.6  3,468
C. Motorcycles                            -      77       75       73       71        -     296   50.0    148
D. Educational Material /a                -   3,141   4,288   4,316   3,385        674  15,805   15.8  2,501
E. Training
1. In Country Training               21   2,903   6,064   5,905   5,622   1,472  21,987   15.0  3,298
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants             141      929     667      634      580      490   3,441   10.0    344
2. International Consultants        170      420      315     180      180 1i3    1.351   80.O  1.081
Subtotal  Technical Assistance         261   1,349       983      814     760      625   4,792   29.7  1,425
G. Scholarships                           -   3,147   3,147   3,147   3,147           -  12,587       -       -
H. Contract Teachers                      -     965      965      965     949         -   3,844       -       -
I. Operating Costs /b               1W52        642      592      592      92      A 444   3..014    .0   301
Total Investment Costs                      435  32,502  36,919  34,370  14,575   3,215 122,015   21.9 26,716
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations                     -     355      701   1.036  6.762        671  _4.124   1.0    412
Total Recurrent Costs                         -      35S     701   1.036   142.362      61   4.12   1.0Q   412
Total BASELINE COSTS                         435  32,857  37,618  35,406  15,937   3,886 126,139   21.5 27,128
Physical Contingencies                       -        -       -        -        -        -        -      -       -
Price Contingencies                          3   1.398   4.169   6.616  . 4.1l1   1.5    17.892    7.1  1.277
Total PROJECT COSTS                          437  34,255  41,787  42,022  20,048   5,481 144,031   19.7 28,405
Taxes                                        -   1,952   2,131   2,037         33        -   6,153       -       -
Foreign Exchange                           129   8,219   9,303   8,073   2,023        659  28,405        -       -
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
MUS$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97        97/98   9a199   99a00   a0/01   01/02   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction                   -  18,227  19,633  20,101          -        -  57,961
B. Equipment & Furniture                  -   2,954   3,498   1,992         58        -   8,502
C. Motorcycles                            -      80       82       84       86        -     332
D. Educational Material /a                -   3,305   4,863   5,275   4,460        952  18,855
E. Training
1. In Country Training               22   3,057   6,883   7,227   7,422   2,077  26,687
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants             142      980      761     782      774      700   4,138
2. International Consultants        121      431      336     199      207      160   1.453
Subtotal Technical Assistance          263   1,411   1,097        981      980     860   5,591
G. Scholarships                           -   3,147   3,147   3,147   3,147           -  12,587
H. Contract Teachers                      -   1,022   1,111   1,208   1,290           -   4,632
I. Operating Costs /b                  152      677      675      730     790      634   3-659
Total Investment Costs                      437  33,880  40,988  40,745  18,232   4,523 138,806
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations                     -     375      799   1.278   L..16       95..8   5-22.i
Total Recurrent Costs                         -     375      799  1.278  1.2A6          958   L22&
Total PROJECT COSTS                          437  34,2S5  41,787  42,022  20,048   5,481 144,031
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Annex 13: Page 4 of 32                                            107
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Cost Summary
DI Aceh
!k    W Total
(Rps  Million)              (USS '000)          Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchanae  Cost-
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                         14,176   6,110  20,285   6,081   2,621   8,702            30        41
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs         2,798      504   3,302   1,200       216   1,417         15         7
3. Scholarship Program                      4,770        -   4,770   2,046         -   2,046          -        10
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation         1.827       783   2.610      784      336   1.120         30         5
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE               23,571   7,397  30,968  10,112   3,173  13,285            24        62
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                         6,765   1,194   7,959   2,902        512   3,414         15        16
2. Tools for Effective Teaching             3,826      675   4,501   1,641       290   1,931         15         9
4. Contract Teachers                      1.491          -   1.491      64A0       -      640         -3
Subtotal Improve Quality                      12,082   1,869  13,951   5,183        802   5,985         13        28
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity              343       60     403      147       26      173        15         1
2. Information Management                     924      988  1.912       396      424      820        52         4
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management   1,267   1,049   2,315            S43     450      993        45         5
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management            2,106      234   2,340      903      100   1,004         10         5
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                  374       42.    415      160       18      1.78       10         1
Subtotal Support Project Management            2.,480     276   2.755  1.064        118  .182           10         6
Total BASELINE COSTS                           39,399  10,590  49,989  16,902   4,543  21,445            21       100
Physical Contingencies                             -       -        -        -        -       -         -         -
Price Contingencies                           6,476      484   6.960   2.778       208  2.986._         7        14
Total PROJECT COSTS                            45,874  11,074  56,948  19,680   4,751  24,431            19       114
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Cost Summary
DI Aceh
t     I Total
(Rps. Million)              (USS '000)          Foreign    Base
Local  Foreion  Total   Local  Foreion  Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction        14,573   6,246  20,819   6,252   2,679   8,931            30        42
B. Equipment & Furniture        1,812   1,540   3,352       777      660   1,438         46         7
C. Motorcycles                     55       55      110      24       24       47        so         -
D. Educational Material /a   4,899         922   5,821   2,102       395   2,497         16        12
E. Training
1. In Country Training    7,911   1,396   9,307   3,394           599   3,993        15         19
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants   1,130        126   1,255       485       54     538        10          3
G. Scholarships                4,770         -   4,770   2,046         -   2,046          -        10
H. Contract Teachers            1,491        -   1,491      640        -      640         -         3
I. Operating Costs /b           1.3W5Q)    150  1.q00       579       64      644        10         3
Total Investment Costs             37,991  10,433  48,425  16,298   4,476  20,774            22        97
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations         1.408        156   1.564      604       ,67     671        10         3
Total Recurrent Costs               1.408      156  1.5I64       604      67      671        10         3
Total BASELINE COSTS                39,399  10,S90  49,989  16,902   4,543  21,445            21       100
Physical Contingencies                 -        -        -        -       -        -
Price Contingencies                6.476      484   6.960   2.778 ..208  2.986               7        14
Total PROJECT COSTS                 45,874  11,074  56,948  19,680   4,751  24,431            19       114
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



C
00
Indonela
Sumtra Junior Secondary Education Project
Ependiture Accounts by Comoents - B.. Costs
DI Aceh (US$ 0001
Strengthen Education
Increase AcenA   to JSE                                      le rove Duality_                           anagenmnt            Ruoort Project Management
Alternative                    Teacher &                   Toole for    Student                   Education                Provincial  Central   Monitoring
Regular      tquivalency   Scholarship        Student       Teacher    Effective  Performance  Contract   Management  Information  Project    Project               and
lchoolg    PrZ_                      gr   puAu.            Trainin      TeIsaching   A maL_  ehac &   SapaciLv   Hm                 k 7  bU_ Han*UanL Manaaa    yal-tion X2LL _
I. investnt Coots
A. Civil Works
1. me. Contruction                7,888               -               -         1.043             -            -            -            -            -             -           -           -           -  *.931 S
7. Equipment   Purniture                815               -                            "76           -             -                                                 547                                   -  1,438
C. motorcycles                            -             47                       -             -            -            -            -            -             -                 -           -           -      47
D. Educatienal Material /a                -            566               -              -            -        1,931             -            -            -            -           -           -           -  2,497
. Trtaiing
1. In Counbry Training                 -            132               -              -        3,414            -            -            -          173          273            -           -           -  3993
V  Technical Asitanc-ac
1. Doeatic Consultants                 -              -                                           -                                                    -                     360            -         174    53S
G. Scholarship$                           -               -          2,046              -            -             -            -            -            -            -           -           -           -  2,046
H  Contract Teachers                      -               -              -              -            -             -            -         640             -            -           -           -           -    640       kA
I. Operating Costs /b                                                   -                                         - _64_ _4 -                                     4                            - 4 0
Total Inventmnt Costs                     8.702             746          2,046          1.120        3,414        1,931                        640          173          820       1,004                     178 20.774
II. Eecur..nt Cost
A. TerbukaC opecation-                                    -                      -             -            -            -      -            -            -            -           -                       - . 7t          &>
Total Recurrent Costa                          -                                           -              -            -            -            -                   -           -           -            -          671
Total IASELIS  COSTS                       8,702           1,417          2,046          1,120        3,414         1,931            -          640          173          620       1,004                      170 21,445
Physical Contingencies                               -              -               -             -
Price Contingencies                      1020              302              -            10      .    647          3S9             -          131           43           r6         218           -          42  2,9e6
Total PROJECT COSTS                        9,722           1,719          2.046          1,227        4,061         2.320            -          771          216          907       1,222            -         220 24,431
T-see                                      SS               17              -            112             -            -            -            -            -           52                              -        1.05
Foreign Exchange                         2,733             229                           345          541           307                                     2 38        439         107                      19  4.751
\1 Incl   ibracy books. teaching aids eDd kite and training _idulee.
\b Incl *xpenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & coineueh1bs



Annex 13: Page 6 of 32                                     109
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
DI Aceh (US$ '000)
Base Cost
96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01  01/02  Total
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                             -  2,899  2,899  2,899         6       -  8,702
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs            -    263    322    337    387    109  1,417
3. Scholarship Program                         -    512    512    512    512          -  2,046
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation             -    525    39 7    198        -       -1.120
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE                   -  4,197  4,129  3,946    905    109 13,285
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                            -    675    970    898    871         -  3,414
2. Tools for Effective Teaching                -    326    541    541    418    106  1,931
4. Contract Teachers                           -    161    161  __61    15.7          -    640
Subtotal Improve Quality                          -  1,162  1,671  1,600  1,447    106  5,985
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity               3      15     22      58      44     31    173
2. Information Management                      -    264    379       96      82      -    820
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management          3    278    401    153    126         31    993
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management              50    201    201    201    201    151  1,004
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                   -      36     36      36      36     36    178
Subtotal Support Project Management              50    236    236   236  __236        1B  1.182
Total BASELINE COSTS                              53  5,874  6,438  5,935  2,714    431 21,445
Physical Contingencies                           -       -       -      -       -       -      -
Price Contingencies                              0    2.523   718 _W_1.1_7    714 ___2_   2.J986
Total PROJECT COSTS                               54  6,128  7,156  7,053  3,427    613 24,431
Taxes                                            -    353    368    339         5       -  1,065
Foreign Exchange                                 6  1,456  1,581  1,329    324        56  4,751
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
DI Aceh (US$ '000)
Totals Includino Continaencies
96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01  01/02  1ZLa2
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                             -  3,031  3,233  3,451         7       -  9,722
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs            -    276    365    412    511    155  1,719
3. Scholarship Program                         -    512    512    512    512         -  2,046
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation             -     549    443 --231 _7 -   .2
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE                   -  4,367  4,552  4,611  1,030    155 14,714
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                            -    711  1,101  1,099  1,150         -  4,061
2. Tools for Effective Teaching                -    343    614    662    552    149  2,320
4. Contract Teachers                           -    170 ..185 .201  _21i             -     771
Subtotal Improve Quality                          -  1,225  1,899  1,962  1,916    149  7,151
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity               3      16     25      71      58     43    216
2. Information Management                      -    271    410      117 __09         -     907
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management          3    287    436    188    166         43  1,123
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management              51    212    229    248    268    215  1,222
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                   -      38     41      44      47     51 ....220
Subtotal Support Project Management              51 ..249    270    29         3215    266  1.442
Total PROJECT COSTS                               54  6,128  7,156  7,053  3,427    613 24,431



110                              Annex 13: Page 7 of 32
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
DI Aceh (US$ '000)
Foreign
Base Cost                          Exchange
96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01  01/02  Total              Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction             -  3,127  2,993  2,811        -       -  8,931   30.0  2,679
B. Equipment & Furniture           -    547    599    286         6      -  1,438   45.9    660
C. Motorcycles                     -      13     13      11      11      -      47   50.0      24
D. Educational Material /a         -    480    695    669    547    106  2,497   15.8    395
E. Training
1. In Country Training          3    739  1,111  1,082  1,027        31  3,993   15.0    599
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants       18    108    108    108    108         90    53B   10.0       54
G. Scholarships                    -    512    512    512    512          -  2,046       -       -
H. Contract Teachers               -    161    161    161    157         -    640        -       -
I. Operating Costs /b             32    12f9    129    12.9   129       97    644   10.0       64
Total Investment Costs                53  5,815  6,319  5,768  2,496    322 20,774   21.5  4,476
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations              -      59    l18    168    217    109    671   10.0          67
Total Recurrent Costs                -        59    118        168    217    109    671   10.0      67
Total BASELINE COSTS                   53  5,874  6,438  5,935  2,714    431 21,445   21.2  4,543
Physical Contingencies                -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Price Contingencies                   0    253    718  1.117    714    182  2.986    7.0    208
Total PROJECT COSTS                    54  6,128  7,156  7,053  3,427    613 24,431   19.4  4,751
Taxes                                 -    353    368    339         5       -  1,065       -       -
Foreign Exchange                      6  1,456  1,581  1,329    324        56  4,751        -       -
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
DI Aceh (US$ '000o
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97  97/98  98/99  a9/00  a0/01  01/02  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction             -  3,270  3,338  3,347        -       -  9,956
B. Equipment & Furniture           -    567    653    340         7      -  1,568
C. Motorcycles                     -      13     14      12     13       -      53
D. Educational Material /a         -    506    788    818    721    149  2,981
E. Training
1. In Country Training          3    778  1,261  1,324  1,356        43  4,766
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants       18    114    123    133    144    128    659
G. Scholarships                    -    512    512    512    512         -  2,046
H. Contract Teachers               -    170    185    201    214         -    771
I. Operating Costs /b           322  12326    147 ___59    172    138    783
Total Investment Costs                54  6,065  7,021  6,846  3,138    458 23,582
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations              -      62    13.     207    289    155    849
Total Recurrent Costs                  -      62    135     207     289    155      I849
Total PROJECT COSTS                    54  6,128  7,156  7,053  3,427    613 24,431
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Annex 13: Page 8 of 32                                              111
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Cost Sum-ary
West Sumatra
1     1 Total
(RoS. Million)              (USS '000)         Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Tocal  Foreign _Tota   Exchange  C2at-
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                         14,924   6,473  21,398   6,403   2,777   9,180            30        38
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs         2,652      479   3,131   1,138       205   1,343         15         6
3. Scholarship Program                      5,940        -   5,940   2,548         -   2,548          -        10
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation         2.826  1.211 4037  _.2i2              520   1.73          30         7
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE               26,342   8,163  34,506  11,301   3,502  14,803            24        61
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                         9,037   1,595  10,632   3,877        684   4,561         15        19
2. Tools for Effective Teaching             4,147      732   4,879   1,779       314   2,093         15         9
4. Contract Teachers                        1.455        -   1.455      624        -      624         -3
Subtotal Improve Quality                      14,640   2,327  16,966   6,280        998   7,279         14        30
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity              383       68     450      164       29      193        15         1
2. Information Management                  1.050   1.159   2.209        450      497       948       52         4
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management   1,432   1,227   2,659           614      526   1,141         46         5
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management            2,106      234   2,340      903      100   1,004         10         4
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                  '74       42     415      160       lB      178        10         I
Subtotal Support Project Management            2.4B0      276   2.755   1.064       11J  1.182          10         5
Total BASELINE COSTS                           44,894  11,992  56,886  19,259   5,145  24,404            21       100
Physical Contingencies                            -        -        -        -        -       -         -         -
Price Contingencies                           7.619      564   8.183   3.268       242  3.510           7        14
Total PROJECT COSTS                            52,513  12,556  65,069  22,528   5,387  27,914            19       114
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Cost Summary
West Sumatra
I     I Total
(RDS. Million)              (USS '000)         Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Ttal  Exchance  Coa
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction        16,221   6,952  23,173   6,959   2,982   9,941            30        41
B. Equipment & Furniture        1,981   1,786   3,766       850      766   1,616         47         7
C. Motorcycles                     53       53     105       23       23       45        50         -
D. Educational Material /a   5,172         967   6,139   2,219       415   2,634         16        11
E. Training
1. In Country Training   10,268   1,812  12,080   4,405           777   5,182        15        21
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants   1,130        126   1,255       485       54      538       10         2
G. Scholarships                 5,940        -   5,940   2,548         -   2,548          -        10
H. Contract Teachers            1,455        -   1,455      624        -      624         -         3
I. Operating Costs /b           1.35i0    o15    1.500      579       64      644        10         3
Total Investment Costs             43,569  11,845  55,414  18,691   5,082  23,773            21        97
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations         1.325:.a     147 __1._42      568       63      631iL      10         a
Total Recurrent Costs               1..32S      147  1.472       568      63 ____1I          10         3
Total BASELINE COSTS                44,894  11,992  56,886  19,259   5,145  24,404            21       100
Physical Contingencies                 -        -        -        -        -       -         -         -
Price Contingencies                7.619      564  8.,183   3.268       242   3.510          7        14
Total PROJECT COSTS                 52,513  12,556  65,069  22,528   5,387  27,914            19       114
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Eapnditure Accounts by Coponents - Ease Coats
West Sumatra (USS 000)
Wes   S.atr   (U$ '00)Strengthen Education
Increase Acce-   to JSE                                       Improve Quality                           Management              Surnnort Proiect Management
Alternative                     Teacher a                   Tools for    Student                    Education                 Provincial  Central   Monitoring
Regular      Equivalency   Scholarship         Student       Teacher    Effective  Performance  Contract   Management  Information  Project    Project                 and
Schmls        s r                    sc  Accommodation  Trtinina    T.C.hins   Asseas-nt   Teachersfl            C-ciSaa. Hnaaqeent    naeSnt ManaQent al-tn D                    Atal
X. Investment Costs
A. Civil  o.rks
1. New Construction                0,292               -               -          1,649             -            -            -             -            -             -           -           -           -  9.941
5. Equipment & Prurniture               687                -                             83            ,             -                                                  646                  -           -        1616
C. motorcycles                                           45                                                                                                                                                    -       5
D. Educational Material /a                 -            541               -               -            -        2,093             -            -             -            -           -            -           -  2,634
S. Training
1. In Country Training                  -            126               -              -        4,561             -                                     193           302           -           -            -  5,182
F. Technical Asistscs
1  Domestic Consultants                 -                                             -                                                                  -             -         360           -         178    538
G. Scholarships                            -               -          2,548               -            -             -            -             -            -                         -           -           -  2,548 0
H. Contract Teachers                       -               -              -               -            -             -            -          624             -            -           -            -           -    624   &Q
I. Operating Costs /b                        ------------                                                --                                                               - ,S A-- 644i4A 
Total Inveswtment Costs                    9,190             712          2,548           1,732        4,561         2,093             -          624          193          948        1.004                     178 23.773
11. scurreat Costs
A. Terbuka Operations                      -61                                                                             -                   -             -            -
Total Recurrent Costs                           -            631               -              -             -            -             -            -            -                         -           -            -
Total EASELIIN COSTS                        9,180           1,343          2,548           1,732        4,561         2,093             -          624          193           948       1,004           -          178 24,404    U
Physical Contingencies                        -               -               -              -             -            -             -            -            -             -           -           -            -      -
Price Contingencies                       L     058         287               -            203          989           432            -          128            46          108          218      -    -          42  3,510
Total PEOJlCS COSTS                        10,238           1,630          2,548           1,935        5,550         2,525                        752          239        1.055        1,222           -          220 27,914
Taxes                                       932              16               -            176             -            -             -            -             -           61                 -                  -  1.185
Foreign Exchange                          2.894             218               -            542          728           333             -            -           31          514          107           -          19  5,387
\  Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits snd training modules.
\b Incl. ependituree ior travel,per diem, honoraria a consvmmblss



Annex 13: Page 10 of 32                          113
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
West Sumatra (USS '000)
Base Cost
96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01  01/02  Total
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                            -  3,130  3,130  2,906       14      -  9,180
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs           -    263    278    327    377       99  1,343
3. Scholarship Program                        -    637    637    637    637        -  2,548
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation            -    554    624  _554   _            -  1732
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE                  -  4,584  4,668  4,425  1,028       99 14,803
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                           -    536  1,307  1,216  1,166    336  4,561
2. Tools for Effective Teaching               -    335    549    603    489    118  2,093
4. Contract Teachers                          -    157    157    I57    153        -    624
Subtotal Improve Quality                         -  1,028  2,013  1,976  1,808    454  7,279
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity              3     19      39     57      39     37    193
2. Information Management                     -    3S3    376      84      68.     66    948..i i
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management         3    372    415    141    106    103  1,141
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management             50    201    201    201    201    151  1,004
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                  -     36      36     36     36      36    178
Subtotal Support Project Management             50    23S    236 236        236    1186  1182
Total BASELINE COSTS                             53  6,220  7,333  6,778  3,179    842 24,404
Physical Contingencies                          -       -      -      -       -      -       -
Price Contingencies                             0- -2        812 1.265 _821 ___2. 3.510
Total PROJECT COSTS                              54  6,481  8,145  8,043  4,000  1,193 27,914
Taxes                                           -    386    415    379        6      -  1,185
Foreign Exchange                                6  1,581  1,784  1,506    385    125  5,387
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
West Sumatra (US$ '000)
Totals Includino Contingencies
96/ 9i97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01  01/02
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                            -  3,272  3,490  3,459      16       - 10,238
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs           -    276    315    400    497    141  1,630
3. Scholarship Program                        -    637    637    637    637        -  2,548
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation            -    580    695    660        -      -1,935
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE                  -  4,765  5,138  5,157  1,151    141 16,351
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                           -    564  1,483  1,488  1,540    474  5,550
2. Tools for Effective Teaching               -    352    623    738    646    166  2,525
4. Contract Teachers                          -  --I6    181    19.6   .208  -.
Subtotal Improve Quality                         -  1,083  2,287  2,422  2,394    640  8,827
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity              3     20     44      69     51      52    239
2. Information Management                     -    363    406 __0          89     94  1 .5.
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management         3    384    450    172    140    146  1,295
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management             51    212    229    248    268    215  1,222
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                  -     38      41     44     47      51    220f
Subtotal Support Project Management             51 ...249    270 __29        31.5    266 1.442
Total PROJECT COSTS                              54  6,481  8,145  8,043  4,000  1,193 27,914



Annex 13: Page 11 of 32
114
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
West Sumatra (US$ '000)
Foreign
Base Cost                         Exchange
96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01  01/02  Total    L    Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction            -  3,359  3,425  3,157        -      -  9,941   30.0  2,982
B. Equipment & Furniture          -    662    637    303       14       -  1,616   47.4    766
C. Motorcycles                    -      13     11      11     11       -     45   50.0      23
D. Educational Material /a        -    489    678    731    618    118  2,634   15.8    415
E. Training
1. In Country Training         3    608  1,443  1,387  1,302    439  5,182   15.0    777
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants       18    108    108    108    108       90    538   10.0       54
G. Scholarships                   -    637    637    637    637         -  2,548       -      -
H. Contract Teachers              -    157    157    157    153         -    624       -      -
I. Operating Costs /b            32    129    19      129    129      97    644   10.0       64
Total Investment Costs               53  6,161  7,224  6,620  2,971    743 23,773   21.4  5,082
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations             -      59    109    158    2 07      99    631LU   10.0    63
Total VLecurrent Costs                -       9    109    L56    207       99 _31 10.            63
Total BASELINE COSTS                  53  6,220  7,333  6,778  3,179    842 24,404   21.1  5,145
Physical Contingencies               -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -
Price Contingencies                  0 ___.261  __81i12  1265i  821 __5L1  3.510    6.9    242
Total PROJECT COSTS                   54  6,481  8,145  8,043  4,000  1,193 27,914   19.3  5,387
Taxes                                -    386    415    379        6       -  1,185       -      -
Foreign Exchange                     6  1,581  1,784  1,506    385    125  5,387          -      -
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
West Sumatra (US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01  01/02  Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction            -  3,512  3,820  3,759        -      - 11,092
B. Equipment &  Furniture         -    685    695    360       16      -  1,757
C. Motorcycles                    -     13      12     12      13      -      50
D. Educational Material /a        -    515    769    894    814    166  3,158
E. Training
1. In Country Training         3    640  1,638  1,697  1,719    620  6,317
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants       18    114    123    133    144    128    659
G. Scholarships                   -    637    637    637    637         -  2,548
H. Contract Teachers              -    166    181    196    208         -    752
I. Operating Costs /b            32    136    147    159q   172       3      7133
Total Investment Costs               54  6,418  8,021  7,848  3,723  1,052 27,116
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations             -      62 __j12i    1 95.   276 __-I    798
Total Recurrent Costs                 -      62   124    195    276 __14         798
Total PROJECT COSTS                   54  6,481  8,145  8,043  4,000  1,193 27,914
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Annex 13: Page 12 of 32                                       115
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Cost Summary
Jambi
%     % Total
(ROs. Million)              (USS '000)         Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Forpion  Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                          7,293   3,189  10,482   3,129   1,368   4,497            30        33
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs         2,903      524   3,427   1,245       225   1,470         15        11
3. Scholarship Program                      3,240        -   3,240   1,390         -   1,390          -        10
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation        1.458        641 ...j.22      625       275     901        31         7
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE               14,894   4,354  19,248   6,389   1,868   8,258            23        60
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                         3,391      598   3,989   1,455       257   1,711         15        13
2. Tools for Effective Teaching             2,773      489   3,262   1,189       210   1,399         15        10
4. Contract Teachers                      1.302          -   1.302      559        -      559-
Subtotal Improve Quality                       7,466   1,088   8,553   3,203        467   3,669         13        27
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity              250       44     295      107       19      126        15         1
2. Information Management                     632      632  1.265 _   271        271      543        50         4
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management         883      677   1,559      379      290      669        43         5
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management            1,836      204   2,040      788       88      875        10         6
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                  374       42     415      160       18      178        10         1
Subtotal Support Project Management            2.210      246  2.455       948      105  1.053          10         8
Total BASELINE COSTS                           25,452   6,364  31,816  10,919   2,730  13,649            20       100
Physical Contingencies                            -        -        -        -       -        -         -         -
Price Contingencies                         4.387        3 0I3   4.690  1.8B2      130 .. 2.0Z          6         s1
Total PROJECT COSTS                            29,838   6,668  36,506  12,801   2,860  15,661            18       115
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Cost Summary
Jambi
%     % Total
(Rps. Million)              (USS '000)          Foreign    Base
Local  Foreion  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchanoe  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction         7,999   3,428  11,428   3,432   1,471   4,903            30        36
B. Equipment & Furniture          993      965   1,959      426      414      840        49         6
C. Motorcycles                     58       58     115       25       25       49        50         -
D. Educational Material /a   3,895         747   4,642   1,671       320   1,991         16        15
E. Training
1. In Country Training    4,306        760   5,066   1,847        326   2,173        15        16
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants   1,130        126   1,255       485       54     538        10         4
G. Scholarships                 3,240        -   3,240   1,390         -   1,390          -        10
H. Contract Teachers            1,302        -   1,302      559        -      559         -         4
I. Operating Costs /b           1.080      120 1.200        463       51   .515          10         4
Total Investment Costs             24,003   6,203  30,206  10,297   2,661  12,958            21        95
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations           1.4        161  1.6.120     622       69      691        10         5
Total Recurrent Costs             1.449        161  1.610       622       69      691        10         5
Total BASELINE COSTS                25,452   6,364  31,816  10,919   2,730  13,649            20       100
Physical Contingencies                 -        -        -        -       -        -         -         -
Price Contingencies                4..387 3.0.  3   4.A90  _._I_8  1.3.   0   2.01l2         6        15
Total PROJECT COSTS                 29,838   6,668  36,506  12,801   2,860  15,661            18       115
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Conponent - Bass Cost.
Jambi (US$ '0001
Strengthen Education
Increase Access to JSE8                                        le-rove Oualitv                            Management              Sunnort Project   norment
Alternative                     Teacher                      Tools for    Student                     Education                 Provincial  Central   Monitoring
Regular      Equivalency   Scholarship         Student        Teacher    Effective   Performance  Contract   Management  Information   Project    Project                 and
Schoole         ___xZgqnam      gco Einn  TrSinins            T-echin    Assesmsment   T-ch..a .        aCacit    Flana Lement  Mnqmnt   -agmenL  Evaluation tOtAL
1. Intestment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Me  Conetruction                 4 046               -               -             857             -             -            -             -                                                                   4,903
S. Rquipment & Furniturs                  452               -               -              43            -             -             -            -             -           345           -            -           -    840
C. Motorcycles                                             49                               -                                                                                 -                                           49
D. Educational Material /a                  -             592               -                            -                                                                    -                                        1,991
R. Training
1. In Country Training                   -            138               -               -        1,711              -            -             -          126           197                  -                  -  2,173
V. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants                 -               -               -               -             -      -                   -             -             -                       160           _          178    538 5
G. Scholarships                             -               -          1,390                -                          _ -                                                                                          -  1,1390     O
H. Contract Teachars                                                                                    -                                       559                                                                      5
I. Operating Costs lb                       -               -               --                                         -             -                                                     ; -  -      -           -    S1          _
Total Inaestment Cost                       4,497             779           1,390             901        1,711         1,399             -           559           126          543          875                      179 12.958
11. *ccurrant Costs
A. Terbuka Operations                       -             6I1               -               -             -            -             -             -            -             -            -           -            -    6         0
TotalI Escoces.t Costs                                         f                                                                                                                                                               f
Totl RSuLIn COSTS                            4497            1,470           1,1390            901         1,711        1,399                         559           126          543          875                      179 13,649        L
Physical Contingencies                                                                      -              -                     -             -                                 -            -           -                -
Price Contingencies                          542             llS.___           -              95           361          264                         114          310         51             190            -          42  2012
Total PROJvCT COSTS                          S.039           1,785           1,390             995         2,073        1,663              -          672           157           602       1.065            -         220 15,661
Taxes                                        459              17                -             91             -             -             -            -             -           33            -            -           -    599
Foreign Exchange                           1,428             239                             296           273          222             -                         20           291           93                       19  2,860
\a Incl  library books, teaching aids and kits and training medules.
\b Incl. expenditures tor travel,per dime, bonorrit a cnsUxabl-a



Annex 13. Page 14 of 32                            117
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
Jambi (U5$ '000)
Base Cost
96/97  97/98  9f199  99/00  00/01  01/02 D     TDal
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                             -  1,347  1,569  1,569        12       -  4,497
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs            -    263    322    381    396    109  1,470
3. Scholarship Program                         -    347    347    347    347          -  1,390
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation             -    346    346 _-                     -    90
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE                    -  2,303  2,585  2,505    756    109  8,258
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                            -    232    494    450    425    110  1,711
2. Tools for Effective Teaching                -    294    402    402    221        81  1,399
4. Contract Teachers                           -          ___42 3   --42     142 134  -    559
Subtotal Improve Quality                           -    668  1,037    993    780    191  3,669
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity               3      11     27      36      27     23    126
2. Information Management                      -    174    242       70      56       -    543
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management          3    1B4    269    107        83      23    669
D. Support Project Management
i. Provincial Project Management              44    175    175    175    175    131    875
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                   -      36     36      36      36     36 ___IB
Subtotal Support Project Management              44    211   _.211    211 _.21         167  1.053
Total BASELINE COSTS                              47  3,366  4,102  3,816  1,829    489 13,649
Physical Contingencies                           -       -       -      -       -       -       -
Price Contingencies                              0    144    459 __2    481   2.06  2012.
Total PROJECT COSTS                               47  3,510  4,561  4,538  2,311    695 15,661
Taxes                                             -    181    216    197        5       -    599
Foreign Exchange                                 5    794    968    814    213         66  2,860
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
Jambi (US5 '000)
Totals Including Contincencies
96/97  97/98  98/99  92/00  00/01  01102  Total
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                             -  1,408  1,750  1,868        14      -  5,039
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs            -    276    365    466    524    155  1,785
3. Scholarship Program                         -    347    347    347    347         -  1,390
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation          _        362    36I   247         -       - z
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE                   -  2,394  2,848  2,928    S85    155  9,209
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                            -    245    561    551    561    155  2,073
2. Tools for Effective Teaching                -    310    456    491    292    114  1,663
4. Contract Teachers                           -   1S0    163,I  177    1B2=      _        672
Subtotal Improve Quality                          -    704  1,180  1,219  1,035    269  4,408
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity               3      11     30      44     35      32    157
2. Information Management                      -    179    262       86      74.-.60-
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management          3    190    293    131    110         32    759
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management              44    185    200    216    233    188  1,065
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                   -     238     41      44      47     51  .2.20
Subtotal Support Project Management              44    222  -240    260  ___2B1  ___2_  _I_ZM
Total PROJECT COSTS                               47  3,510  4,561  4,538  2,311    695 15,661



118                              Annex 13: Page 15 of 32
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
Jambi (US$ '000)
Foreign
Base Cost                          Exchange
96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01        02  Total    %    Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction             -  1,543  1,746  1,614         -      -  4,903   30.0  1,471
B. Equipment & Furniture           -    315    350    163        12       -    840   49.3    414
C. Motorcycles                     -      13     13      13      11       -     49   50.0      25
D. Educational Material /a         -    449    556    556    350        81  1,991   16.1    320
E. Training
1. In Country Training          3    288    619    593    538    133  2,173   15.0    326
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants        18    108    108    108    108        90    538   10.0       54
G. Scholarships                    -    347    347    347    347          -  1,390       -       -
H. Contract Teachers               -    142    142    142    134          -    559       -       -
I. Operating Costs /b             26    103        103    103    10.    77  5f15   1O.Q        51
Total Investment Costs                47  3,307  3,983  3,638  1,602    380 12,958   20.5  2,661
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations              -      59    118    178    227    109    691   10.0          69
Total Recurrent Costs                  -      59    118    178    222    109    691   10.0          69
Total BASELINE COSTS                   47  3,366  4,102  3,816  1,829    489 13,649   20.0  2,730
Physical Contingencies                -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Price Contingencies                   0    144    459    722    48i    206  2.L12    6,5    130
Total PROJECT COSTS                    47  3,510  4,561  4,538  2,311    695 15,661   18.3  2,860
Taxes                                 -    18    216    197         5       -    599       -       -
Foreign Exchange                      5    794    968    814    213         66  2,860       -       -
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
Jambi (US$ '000)
Totals Including Continoencies
96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00                    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction             -  1,614  1,947  1,921        -       -  5,482
B. Equipment & Furniture           -    326    381    193        14       -    914
C. Motorcycles                     -      13     14      15      13      -      55
D. Educational Material /a         -    472    630    679    461    114  2,356
E. Training
1. In Country Training          3    303    702    725    710    188  2,632
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants        18    114    123    133    144    128    659
G. Scholarships                    -    347    347    347    347          -  1,390
H. Contract Teachers               -    150    163    177    182          -    672
I. Operating Costs /b             26    109    117    122    137 1i      0    627
Total Investment Costs                47  3,448  4,426  4,319  2,008    540 14,787
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations              -      62   1i35   3219     303 1.     5    874
Total Recurrent Costs                  - :_     62    135 _-_219  3.0. 3    15i   87&4
Total PROJECT COSTS                    47  3,510  4,561  4,538  2,311    695 15,661
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Annex 13: Page 16 of 32                                  119
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Cost Summary
South Sumatra
%     % Total
(Rps. Million)              (USS '000)          Foreign    Base
Local  Foreicn  Tot'a    Local  Foreign  Tntal  Exchanae  Costs
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                         25,452  10,985  36,437  10,919   4,713  15,632            30        45
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs         3,508      636   4,144   1,505       273   1,778         15         5
3. Scholarship Program                      7,650        -   7,650   3,282         -   3,282          -        10
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation          _4_j_ 1 2 49          . 898  h 471   630   23 11         30         6
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE               40,039  13,090  53,129  17,177   5,616  22,792            25        66
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                         8,502   1,500  10,002   3,647        644   4,291         15        12
2. Tools for Effective Teaching             6,503   1,148   7,651   2,790        492   3,282         15        10
4. Contract Teachers                       3J600         -   32600 __1_5J          -   1544           -         4
Subtotal Improve Quality                      18,605   2,648  21,253   7,982   1,136   9,117            12        26
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity              534       94     628      229       40      269        15         1
2. Information Management                   1322 1. 175   2.4.97        567      504   1-071         47         3
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management   1,856   1,269   3,125           796      544   1,341         41         4
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management            2,106      234   2,340      903      100   1,004         10         3
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                  374       42     41S      160       18      178        10         I
Subtotal Support Project Management          2_480        276 ....2A2.                   __6J_118Z      10         3
Total BASELINE COSTS                           62,979  17,282  80,262  27,018   7,414  34,432            22       100
Physical Contingencies                            -        -        -        -        -       -         -         -
Price Contingencies                          10J486      810  11J296    42 498     348   4846           7        14
Total PROJECT COSTS                            73,465  18,093  91,557  31,516   7,762  39,278            20       114
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Coat Summary
South Sumatra
t     % Total
(Ros. Million)              (USS '000)          Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreicn  _Tota   Exchanoe  Costs
I. Investment Coats
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction        26,291  11,268  37,559  11,279   4,834  16,113            30        47
B. Equipment & Furniture        3,026   2,205   5,231   1,298        946   2,244         42         7
C. Motorcycles                     70       70      140      30       30       60        50         -
D. Educational Material /a   7,870   1,461   9,331   3,376           627   4,003         16        12
E. Training
1. In Country Training   10,254   1,810  12,064   4,399           776   5,175        15        15
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants   1,130        126   1,255       485       54     538        10         2
G. Scholarships                 7,650        -   7,650   3,282         -   3,282          -        10
H. Contract Teachers            3,600        -   3,600   1,544         -   1,544          -         4
I. Operating Costs /b          1 350       ISO   1 5;00     579       64      644        10         2
Total Investment Coats             61,240  17,089  78,330  26,272   7,331  33,603            22        98
II. Recurrent Coats
A. Terbuka Operations           1     79   193 __932Z       746       83      829        10         2
Total Recurrent Costa               12739      193   1 2 9322 746         83      829        10         2
Total BASELINE COSTS                62,979  17,282  80,262  27,018   7,414  34,432            22       100
Physical Contingencies                 -        -        -        -       -        -         -         -
Price Contingencies               10J 486     810  11296  4A498         348   4 84Ii6       7        14
Total PROJECT COSTS                 73,465  18,093  91,557  31,516   7,762  39,278            20       114
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Eapeoditurs Accounts by Coponeots - Base Costs
South Sumatra (US$ 000)
Strengthen Education
Increase Access to JSB                                      Improve Ouality                         Mpnaoement             Sunnort Project Mana.ement
kf,ternative                   Teacher F.                Tools for    Student                   Education                Provinca   Central   Monitor ing
Regular     Equivalency   Scholarship        S tudent     Teacher    Effective  Performance  Contract   Management  Information  Project    Project             and
Schools      sama              na         Arain              ima   Teaching                                              Manenment T a   sanacitv   Nanassmot nanm   Sa   Baatlnn Thta
I. I-esetint Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction              14,158              -              -          1.955            -            -            -            -            -           -           -           -           - 16,113
8. Equipment a Furniture             1,474               -              -           146            -            -            -            -            -          624           -          -           -  2,244        b
C. Motorcycles                            -            60                      -             -                  -            -            -            -            -           -          -           -     60       :
D. Educational Material /a                -           721               -              -            -       3,282                                                        -            -                   4,003
3. Traisning
I. In Country Training                -            166              -              -        4,291            -            -            -         269          447           -           -           -  5.175
F. Technical Assisteces
0. Domestic Consultants                                                          -             -                   -                                -           -         360           -         178    538      t
G. Scholarships                           -              -         3,282               -            -            -           -            -            -            -           -          -           -  3,282
N  Contract Teachers                     -               -              -              -            -           -            -        1,544            -            -          -                          1,544
1 operating Costs /b                     -              -              -              -            -            -            -            -            -            -        644                            644 -
Total Invetment Costs                   15,632             949          3,282         2,101        4,291        3,282            -        1,544          269        1,071       1,004           -        176 33,603
I. Recurrnt Costs 
A. Techuka Operations                     -           829               -              -            -           -            -            -            -            -           -                            8
Tota  Escrost cos tsa                            -                      -       -                   -      -                    --------                -     -            -                            --21 
Totsl  lSurLIER COSTS                     15,632          1,778          3,262          2,101        4 291        3,282                    1,544          269        1,071       1,004           -         1   348,432      1
Physical Contingencies                       -              -              -              -            -            -            -            -           -            -           -           -           -      -      O
Price Contingencies                     1U,48             388--A                              2       1'         638                       317           se          150        218            -          42 A      846 
Total PEOflCr COSTS                       17,479          2,166          3,282          2,350        5,228       3920                      1,862          327        1,222       1.222           -         220 39,278     tU
Taxee                                    1 S91             21                           214            -            -            -            -           -           60           -           -           -  1,885
Foreign Exchange                        4,916             289              -            658          686         521             -            -          43          523         107           -          19  7.762
\  Incl. library books, teaching aide and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for trovel,por diem, honoraria & consumablee



Annex 13: Page 18 of 32                            121
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
South Sumatra (US$ '000)
Base Cost
96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  00701  01/02  ToAta
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                            -  5,131  5,132  5,355       14      - 15,632
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs           -    306    375    444    514    138  1,778
3. Scholarship Program                        -    820    820    820    820        -  3,282
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation            -    674    714    714        -      -2 101
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE                  -  6,932  7,041  7,333  1,348    138 22,792
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                           -    511  1,173  1,163  1,123    320  4,291
2. Tools for Effective Teaching               -    618    940    940    603    183  3,282
4. Contract Teachers                          -    38      383 3                   -  I544
Subtotal Improve Quality                         -  1,515  2,499  2,489  2,112    503  9,117
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity              3     62      48     62     48      46    269
2. Information Management                     - ..26 4       479    119 ___10  ___3  1 071
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management         3    326    528    181    154    149  1,341
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management             50    201    201    201    201    151  1,004
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                  -     36      36     36     36      36    178
Subtotal Support Project Management             50    236    236                         __236    236    186   118
Total BASELINE COSTS                             53  9,009 10,304 10,239  3,851    976 34,432
Physical Contingencies                          -       -      -      -       -      -       -
Price Contingencies                             0    387  1,147 1. 919    987    407  4 846
Total PROJECT COSTS                              54  9,396 11,451 12,157  4,838  1,383 39,278
Taxes                                           -    581    635    663        7      -  1,885
Foreign Exchange                                6  2,221  2,550  2,413    427    145  7,762
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
South Sumatra (US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingaencies
96/97  97/9B  98/99  99/DO  00/01012 D 2  Total
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                            -  5,365  5,724  6,375      16       - 17,479
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs           -    322    425    543    678    197  2,166
3. Scholarship Program                        -    820    820    820    820        -  3,282
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation            -    705     796 ___          -      -  2.3sq
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE                  -  7,212  7,765  8,S88  1,515    197 25,277
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                           -    539  1,332  1,423  1,483    451  5,228
2. Tools for Effective Teaching               -    650  1,066  1,150    796    258  3,920
4. Contract Teachers                          -    409    445    483 _ 52          -1 862
Subtotal Improve Quality                         -  1,598  2,843  3,056  2,804    709 11,010
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity              3     65      55     76     64      64    327
2. Information Management                     -    271   Sil9    145    140 __146 _1_22
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management         3    336    574    221    204    210  1,549
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management             51    212    229    248    268    215  1,222
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                  -     38      41     4-4    47      51 ...220
Subtotal Support Project Management             51    249    270 ___221     315     266  1 442
Total PROJECT COSTS                              54  9,396 11,451 12,157  4,838  1,383 39,278



122                                 Annex 13: Page 19 of 32
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
South Sumatra (US$ '000)
Foreign
Base Cost                          Exchange
96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01  01aC2  Total    %    Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction             -  5,279  5,316  5,512         -      - 16,113   30.0  4,834
B. Equipment & Furniture           -    777    903    550        14       -  2,244   42.2    946
C. Motorcycles                     -      15     15      15      15       -     60   50.0      30
D. Educational Material /a         -    798  1,120  1,120    783    183  4,003   15.7    627
E. Training
1. In Country Training          3    628  1,370  1,386  1,320    469  5,175   15.0    776
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants        1B    108    108    108    108        90    538   10.0       54
G. Scholarships                    -    820    820    820    820          -  3,282       -       -
H. Contract Teachers               -    386    386    386    386          -  1,544       -       -
I. Operating Costs /b             32    129 9J. ..129    129    129 9..7    644   10.0         64
Total Investment CoBts                53  8,940 10,166 10,032  3,574    838 33,603   21.8  7,331
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations              -      69    138    207    276    138     829    10.0        83
Total Recurrent Costs                   -     69    138.2   207    276    138    829   10.0    8i3
Total BASELINE COSTS                   53  9,009 10,304 10,239  3,851    976 34,432   21.5  7,414
Physical Contingencies                -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Price Contingencies                   0    387  1.147  1.919    987    407  4.846    7.2    348
Total PROJECT COSTS                    54  9,396 11,451 12,157  4,838  1,383 39,278   19.8  7,762
Taxes                                 -    581    635    663         7       -  1,885       -       -
Foreign Exchange                      6  2,221  2,550  2,413    427    145  7,762           -       -
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
South Sumatra (US$ 000)
Totals Including Continoencies
96/97  97/98  98/99  .99/00  00/01  01/02  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction             -  5,520  5,929  6,570         -      - 18,019
B. Equipment & Furniture           -    807    989    654        16       -  2,466
C. Motorcycles                     -      16     16      17      18       -     67
D. Educational Material /a         -    840  1,270  1,369  1,032    258  4,768
E. Training
1. In Country Training          3    661  1,555  1,696  1,742    662  6,319
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants       18    114    123    133    144    128    659
G. Scholarships                    -    820    820    820    820          -  3,282
H. Contract Teachers               -    409    445    483    525          -  1,862
I. Operating Costs /b             32    _l      147 _159    172    138    783
Total Investment Costs                54  9,323 11,293 11,902  4,469  1,186 38,226
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations              -      73    158.256    368    197  1.052
Total Recurrent Costs               _73 __58    256    368    197  1.052
Total PROJECT COSTS                    54  9,396 11,451 12,157  4,838  1,383 39,278
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Annex 13: Page 20 of 32                                 123
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Cost Summary
Lampung
%     % Total
(Ros. Million)              (USS '000)         Foreign    Base
ocal  Foreion  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  rnsts
A. Increase Access to JSE
1, Regular Schools                         19,256   8,282  27,538   8,261   3,S53  11,814            30        39
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs         5,513      999   6,512   2,365       428   2,794         15         9
3. Scholarship Program                      7,740        -   7,740   3,320         -   3,320          -        11
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation          2.279      977   3.256       978    419   1.397          30         5
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE               34,788  10,258  45,047  14,924   4,401  19,325            23        64
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                         9,228   1,628  10,856   3,959        699   4,657         15        16
2. Tools for Effective Teaching             7,015   1,238   8,253   3,009        531   3,541         15        12
4. Contract Teachers                        1.113        -  .I.11       477        -      477         -         2
Subtotal Improve Quality                      17,356   2,866  20,222   7,446   1,230   8,675            14        29
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity              548       97     645      235       41      276        15         1
2. Information Management                     797      823   1.620      342      153      695  _    51          2
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management   1,345          920   2,265       577     395      972        41         3
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management            1,836      204   2,040      788       88      875        10         3
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                  374       42      415      160      18      178        10         I
Subtotal Support Project Management            2.210      246   .455        948 .    05   1.05l3        10         4
Total BASELINE COSTS                           55,698  14,290  69,988  23,895   6,130  30,025            20       100
Physical Contingencies                            -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -
Price Contingencies                           9.426     _85  10.111  4.044         294  4S2.338         7        14
Total PROJECT COSTS                            65,124  14,975  80,100  27,938   6,424  34,363            19       114
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Cost Summary
Lampung
S     % Total
(Pus. Million)              (USS  000)          Foreign    Base
Local  Foreion  Total   Local  Foreico  Total  Exchanc re
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction        19,624   8,410  28,034   8,419   3,608  12,027            30        40
B. Equipment & Furniture        2,228   1,588   3,815       956      681   1,637         42         5
C. Motorcycles                    110      110     220       47       47       94        50         -
D. Educational Material /a   9,162   1,731  10,893   3,931           742   4,673         16        16
E. Training
1. In Country Training   10,780   1,902  12,682   4,624           816   5,441        15        18
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants   1,130        126   1,255       485       54      538       10         2
G. Scholarships                 7,740        -   7,740   3,320         -   3,320          -        11
H. Contract Teachers            1,113        -   1,113      477        -      477         -         2
I. Operating Costs /b           1.080      120  1.200       46..      51  5.15    .1                2
Total Investment Costs             52,966  13,986  66,952  22,722   6,000  28,723            21        96
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations           2.732      304  3.036  1.72          130  1.3 02       . 10         4
Total Recurrent Costs               2.73f2      304  32036   1.1.72      130   1.302         10         4
Total BASELINE COSTS                55,698  14,290  69,988  23,895   6,130  30,025            20       100
Physical Contingencies                 -        -        -        -       -        -         -         -
Price Contingencies              9.426        685  1.0111   4.044       294  4.338           7        14
Total PROJECT COSTS                 65,124  14,975  80,100  27,938   6,424  34,363            19       114
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Impandit-ra Accounts by Co pnsota  - Basa Costs
Lampung (us$ '000)
Strengthen Education
Increase Acces to aSE                                        Im .rove Ouality                          Ma natenment            Suonort Project Man.e.cent
Alternative                     Teacher S                   Tools for    Student                    Education                 Provincial  Central   Monitoring
Regular      Equivalency   Scholarship        Student        Teacher    Effective  Performance  Contract   Management  Information  Project    Project                 and
Schools      _rgama            ProgXam    Acommoati         Triining    Teaching   Asesnemnnt   Teacher6    C-Dacity   1nnagment    g                  oDaea    xfluaMmtin Total
r. IsvDsotat Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction               10,719               -               -          1,307             -            -             -            -             -            -           -           -            - 12,027
B. Equipment & Furniture               1,094               -              -              90            -             -            -             -            -          453            -           -           -  1,637         ,
C. Motorcycles                             -              94                                           --                                -                                 -                                          9
D.  Bducational Material /a                -          1,133               -               -            -        3,541             -             -                               -            -                     4,673
S. Tr-isimg
1. In Country Training                  -            264               -               -       4,657             -             -            -          276           242                       5-           -   ,441       H
F. Technical Asiaotasce
1. DomestiC Consultants                                -                             -              -                   -                   -             -            -         360            -         178    538
C. Scholarships                                                       3 -  3,320                         -           -                                              -            -                 -           -  3.,20
H. Contr-ct Teachers                                                      -                                                                  477                                                                     477
I. Operating Costs lb                      -               -              -               -                                                                  -            -         . cc             _       _    .
Tetal Iovsst.snt Coat                     11,814           1,491          3,3120          1,397        4,657         3,541             -          477          276           695         875                      178 28.723
II  Securreot Costs
A  Terboka Operations                      -          1 302               -               -             -            -                          -            -             -           -           - _           ..atr
Total I1 currant Cots                           -          1302                -               -            -                          -0-                 -            -                  -            -              I   2         tj
Total ZASILIME COSTS                       11,814           2,794           3,320          1,397        4,657         3,541             -          477           276          695         875            -         178 30,025          "
Physical Contingencies                                        -               - -                                                                  -                         -                                     -
Price Contingencies                       1     36B         610                             - 153    1.014            712             -           98           72            78        410             -          42   4 LU
Total PDOJUCT COSTS                        13,182           3,404           3,320          1,550         5,672        4,252             -          575           348          773       1,065            -         220 14,363
Taxes                                     1,200              33               -            141                          -             -            -             -           43           -                        -  1.417
Foreign Eachange                          1,703             455                            436          744           563             -            -           45           367          93                       19  6,424
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per dies, honoraria & consu-ihls



Annex 13: Page 22 of 32                             125
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
Lampung (US$ '000)
Base Cost
96/97  97/98  98/99  99'00  00/01  01/02  Total
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                             -  4,010  4,011  3,789         4       - 11,814
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs            -    481    590    698    807    217  2,794
3. Scholarship Program                         -    830    830    830    830          -  3,320
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation             -    51515      5    367       -       -  1.397
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE                    -  5,837  5,946  5,684  1,641    217 19,325
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                            -    546  1,310  1,236  1,229    337  4,657
2. Tools for Effective Teaching                -    635    957    957    804    188  3,541
4. Contract Teachers                           -    120    120    120    ]18          -    477
Subtotal Improve Quality                           -  1,301  2,386  2,312  2,151    525  8,675
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity               3      10      64     73      64     63    276
2. Information Management                      -    151    385       83      76       -    695
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management           3    161    449    156    140        63    972
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management              44    175    175    175    175    131    875
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                   -      36       36    36      36      36    178
Subtotal Support Project Management              44    211    211    211    211    167  1.053
Total BASELINE COSTS                               47  7,509  8,992  8,362  4,143    972 30,025
Physical Contingencies                            -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Price Contingencies                              0    317    994  1.552  1.068    406  4.338
Total PROJECT COSTS                                47  7,82E  9,985  9,915  5,211  1,378 34,363
Taxes                                             -    452    497    459       10       -  1,417
Foreign Exchange                                 5  1,778  2,142  1,846    512    141  6,424
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
Lampung (US$ '000)
Totals Includino Contingencies
96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01  01/02  Total
A. Increase Access to JSE
1. Regular Schools                             -  4,193  4,474  4,511         5       - 13,182
2. Alternative Equivalency Programs            -    506    668    854  1,065    310  3,404
3. Scholarship Program                         -    830    830    830    830          -  3,320
4. Teacher & Student Accommodation             -    S39    575    436         -       -1.550
Subtotal Increase Access to JSE                    -  6,068  6,547  6,631  1,900    310 21,456
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                            -    575  1,487  1,512  1.622    476  5,672
2. Tools for Effective Teaching                -    669  1,086  1,171  1,062    265  4,252
4. Contract Teachers                           -    1J227 1.38    150    161          -       75
Subtotal Improve Quality                           -  1,370  2,710  2,833  2,845    741 10,499
C. Strengthen Education Management
1. Education Management Capacity               3      10     73      89      85     89    348
2. Information Management                      - . 156    416    102   120            -    773
Subtotal Strengthen Education Management          3    166    488    191    184         89  1,122
D. Support Project Management
1. Provincial Project Management              44    185    200    216    233    188  1,065
3. Monitoring and Evaluation                   -      38     41      44      47      5     2
Subtotal Support Project Management              44    222    240    260    281    238  1.286
Total PROJECT COSTS                               47  7,826  9,985  9,915  5,211  1,378 34,363



126                           Annex 13: Page 23 of 32
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
Lampung (US$ '000)
Foreign
Base Cost                          Exchange
96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00   00/01   01/02   Total       M   Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction             -  4,123  4,123  3,782         -      - 12,027   30.0  3,608
B. Equipment & Furniture           -    546    713    374         4       -  1,637   41.6    681
C. Motorcycles                     -      24     24      24      24       -     94   50.0       47
D. Educational Material /a         -    918  1,240  1,240  1,088    188  4,673   15.9    742
E. Training
1. In Country Training          3    629  1,516  1,458  1,434    400  5,441   15.0    816
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants        18    108    108    108    108        90    538   10.0       54
G. Scholarships                    -    830    830    830    830          -  3,320       -       -
H. Contract Teachers               -    120    120    120    118          -    477       -       -
I. Operating Costs /b             26    103    103    103    103        77    S15   10.0       51
Total Investment Costs                47  7,400  8,775  8,037  3,709    755 28,723   20.9  6,000
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations              -    109    217    326    434    217  1.302   10.0    130
Total Recurrent Costs                   -    109    217    326    434    217  1,302   10.D    130
Total BASELINE COSTS                   47  7,509  8,992  8,362  4,143    972 30,025   20.4  6,130
Physical Contingencies                -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -
Price Contingencies                   0    317    994  1.552  1.068    406  4.338    6 8    294
Total PROJECT COSTS                    47  7,826  9,985  9,915  5,211  1,378 34,363   18.7  6,424
Taxes                                 -    452    497    459        10       -  1,417       -       -
Foreign Exchange                      5  1,778  2,142  1,846    512    141  6,424           -       -
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
Lampung (US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97  97/96  98/99  99/00  00/01  01/02  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction             -  4,311  4,598  4,503         -      - 13,412
B. Equipment & Furniture           -    569    780    444         5       -  1,797
C. Motorcycles                     -      24     26      27      29       -    106
D. Educational Material /a         -    966  1,406  1,515  1,433    265  5,585
E. Training
1. In Country Training          3    663  1,720  1,784  1,894    565  6,629
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants        18    114    123    133    144    128    659
G. Scholarships                    -    830    830    830    830          -  3,320
H. Contract Teachers               -    127    138    150    161          -    575
I. Operating Costs lb             26    109    117         127    137  -112    627
Total Investment Costs                47  7,712  9,738  9,513  4,632  1,068 32,710
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Terbuka Operations              -       5li    248    402   S579    310  1.653
Total Recurrent Costs                   -    115    248    402    579    310  1.6S3
Total PROJECT COSTS                    47  7,826  9,985  9,915  5,211  1,378 34,363
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Annex 13: Page 24 of 32                               127
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Cost Summary
Central DGPS
%     % Total
(RPs. Million)              (USS '000)          Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Increase Access to JSE
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                      894     266  1.160        383      114     498        23        23
Subtotal Improve Quality                    894      266   1,160      383      114      498        23        23
C. Strengthen Education Management
D. Support Project Management
2. Central Project Management         1,105   2,409   3,514        474   1,034   1,508         69        69
3. Monitoring and Evaluation             374      42      41S      160       18      178        10         8
Subtotal Support Project Management   1.478  2.451   3W929            634   1.0L5   1.686          62        77
Total BASELINE COSTS                       2,372   2,717   5,089   1,018   1,166   2,183            53       100
Physical Contingencies                                -        -       -        -        -         -
Price Contingencies                        338      130     467      145       56      201        28         9
Total PROJECT COSTS                        2,709   2,847   5,557   1,162   1,221   2,384            51       109
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Cost Summary
Central DGPS
%    Total
(RDs  Million)              (USS '000)          Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
D. Educational Material /a               13       2       15        5        1        6       15          -
E. Training
1. In Country Training               45        8       53       19       3       23        15         1
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants           1,571      175   1,746      674       75      749        10        34
2. International Consultants        630   2.520  _3__1        270   1.0R1 _.__L21          80        62
Subtotal Technical Assistance        2,201   2,695   4,896        944   1,156   2,100         55        96
I. Operating Costs /b                  113        U      126       49        5       54       10         2
Total Investment Costs                    2,372   2,717   5,089   1,018   1,166   2,183            53       100
II. Recurrent Costs
Total BASELINE COSTS                       2,372   2,717   5,089   1,018   1,166   2,183            53       100
Physical Contingencies                       -        -       -        -        -        -         -         -
Price Contingencies                        33S      130     46A7     145       56      201        28         9
Total PROJECT COSTS                        2,709   2,847   5,557   1,162   1,221   2,384            51       109
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Annex 13: Page 25 of 32
128
i                                1
' cOX        T          0  C
z~    I' . . '.. .... . ..
E .
u3 cx ; o c,. . . . . . . . .. ...
"a E
U U CU
co>,~~~"  >.QCONU                                     a
e ~  ~ ~       C    C  .C'        NOCF              0
$40M        C.., C .' C    C F   04         U
Ca- .'   -.                        .0     C
CC  Ci VC.'~Q-F               C   >.4
< Se C      U  FJN.C          U0 L.
Z     >    , O CU C.U    . U  10     X 
3~~~~~~I  I.>2*X  1a        



Annex 13: Page 26 of 32                     129
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
Central DGPS (US$ '000)
Base Cost
96/97 97/98 98199 99/Q0 00/01 01/02 Total
A. Increase Access to JSE
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                     72 4.04    21   _        _        -         98
Subtotal Improve Quality                   72   404    21       -      -      -   498
C. Strengthen Education Management
D. Support Project Management
2. Central Project Management          108   438   393   240   186   141 1,508
3. Monitoring and Evaluation             -    36        36     36     36    36   178
Subtotal Support Project Management   106   474   429   276   222   177 1.686
Total BASELINE COSTS                       181   878   450   276   222   177 2,183
Physical Contingencies                     -      -      -     -      -     -      -
Price Contingencies                        1    36    39    41    40    43   201
Total PROJECT COSTS                        181   914   489   317   262   220 2,384
Taxes                                      -      -      -     -      -      -     -
Foreign Exchange                         103   390   277   164   162   125 1,221
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Project Components by Year
Central DGPS (US5 '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97 97/98 98/99 99/00 00/01 01/02 Total
A. Increase Access to JSE
B. Improve Quality
1. Teacher Training                     73  4A25    24       -   _        -   522
Subtotal Improve Quality                   73   425    24       -      -     -   522
C. Strengthen Education Management
D. Support Project Management
2. Central Project Management          109   452   425   273   215   169 1,642
3. Monitoring and Evaluation             -    38    41    44    47    51   220
Subtotal Support Project Management   109   490   465   317   262   220 1862
Total PROJECT COSTS                        181   914   489   317   262   220 2,384



130                             Annex 13: Page 27 of 32
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
Central DGPS (US5 '000)
Foreign
Base Cost                     Exchance
96/97 97/98 98/99 99100 00/01 01/02 Total  E6   Amount
I. Investment Costs
D. Educational Material /a             -     6      -     -            -      6   15.0       1
E. Training
1. In Country Training              5    11     6      -      -     -    23   15.0       3
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants           51   390   129    96    42    42   749   10.0         75
2. International Consultants   120   420  315   ISO   ISO   135 1.351   80.O  1.081
Subtotal Technical Assistance        171   811   444   276   222   177 2,100   55.0  1,156
I. Operating Costs /b                  4    50      -     -      -     -    54   10.O        S
Total Investment Costs                   181   878   450   276   222   177 2,183   53.4  1,166
II. Recurrent Costs
Total BASELINE COSTS                      181   878   450   276   222   177 2,1B3   53.4  1,166
Physical Contingencies                    -     -      -     -      -     -      -      -       -
Price Contingencies                       1     36    39    41    40    43   201   27.8        56
Total PROJECT COSTS                       181   914   489   317   262   220 2,384   51.2  1,221
Taxes                                     -     -      -      -     -     -      -      -       -
Foreign Exchange                        103   390   277   164   162   125 1,221         -
sa Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
\b Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables
Indonesia
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
Central DGPS (US5$  000)
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97 97/98 98/99 99/00 00/01 01/02 Total
I. Investment Costs
D. Educational Material /a             -     7      -     -      -     -      7
E. Training
1. In Country Training             5    12      7      -     -      -    24
F. Technical Assistance
1. Domestic Consultants           51   412   147   118    55    59   843
2. International Consultants   121   431   336   199   207   160 1-453
Subtotal Technical Assistance        172   843   483   317   262   220 2,296
I. Operating Costs /b                  4    53      -     -            -    57
Total Investment Costs                   181   914   489   317   262   220 2,384
II. Recurrent Costs
Total PROJECT COSTS                       181   914   489   317   262   220 2,384
\a Incl. library books, teaching aids and kits and training modules.
Nb Incl. expenditures for travel,per diem, honoraria & consummables



Annex 13: Page 28 of 32                                        131
INDONESIA
SUMATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
D.I. ACEH REQUIREMENTS
povyk5\.k.p wk4
INVESTMENT ACTVITIES             UNIT    TOTAL             TO BE FINANCED BY        REMAIN      WORLD BANK
COST   REQUESTED  WOrPLD   OECF   APBN  PRIVATE           AS % OF     COST
RpO '00            BANK         _                          TOTAL
1. Expansion of Student Place
New Students                            52,577   13,760   5,040  12,240  21,537      0    26.3
I .L. School Construction
SMP 6 Classrooms             518,600        90       39             51               0    43.3   20,225.400
SMP 9 Classrooms                                             14
SMP Terbuka, investment       79,000       409       22                            387     5.4     1.738.000
SNtP Terbuka, recurrent       23,000                                                 0             1,564.000
1.2. Facilities
Teacher Housing               92,500        64       23                             41    36.0    2,127.500
Student Dormitories           69.000        17        7                             10   41.2        483,000
Water Supply                   2,500       120       24                             96    20.0        60,000
1.3 Scholarship Years                  300    21,200   21,200                               0   100.0    6,360,000
Sub-Total                                                                                                32,557,900
% Sub -Total                                                                                                 62.90
H. Quality Improvement
2 1. Teacher Development
Up-grading DI/D2 to D3         1,100       639     639                               0   100.0       702,900
Certification (Akta)            550      1,003    1,003                              0   100.0       55 1.650
In-service training MGMP         130    37,198   37,198                              0   100.0    4,835.740
PKG Model C                    1,000     1,195    1,195                              0   100.0     1.195.000
KKMKS (principals meetings)      130     2,572    2.572                              0   100.0       334,360
Guru Inti                      1,100       360      360                              0   100.0       396.000
2.2. Learning Materials Packages
Library Books                  2,000      643      643                               0   100.0    1,286,000
Teaching Aids (Sci,Math,Eng)    5,000      643      643                              0   100.0    3,215,000
2.3. Contract Teachers                3,000       497     497                               0   100.0    1,491,000
Sub-Total                                                                                                14,007,650
% Sub -Total                                                                                                 27.10
111. Management Capacity Building
3.1 Management Training
School Principals               500        643     643                               0   100.0       321,500
KenwilUKandep Staff             500        130      130                              0   100.0        65,000
Project StafT                   750         22       22                              0   100.0        16.500
3.2. Information Management Training
Kandep/Kanwil MIS Operators     450        130      130                              0   100.0        58,500
Schools Administrators          450      1,286    1,286                              0   100.0       578.700
3.3 Decision Support Unit
Kanwil                        85,000         i        I                              0   100 0        85,000
Kandep                        50.000        10       10                              0   100.0       500.000
Schools                       15,000       46       46                               0   100.0       690.000
Sub-Total                                                                                                 2,315,200
% Sub-Total                                                                                                    4.50
IV. Operational
4.1. Constiltants
-National                      7,000       120      120                              0   100.0       840.000
4.2. Monitoring and Evaluation      100,000         5        5                              0   100.0       500.000
4,4. Project Operating Costs         20,000        60       60                              0   100.0    1,500,000
Sub-Total                                                                                                  2,840.000
% Sub-Total                                                                                   I _               5.50
Grand Total                                                                                                      51,720,750
% Grand Total                                                                             _                   100.0(



132                                  Annex 13: Page 29 of 32
INDONESLA
SUNATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECr
WEST SUMATRA REQUIREMENTS
INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES           UNIT    TOTAL            TO BE FINANCED BY       REMAIN      WORLD BANK
COST   REQUESTED  WORLD   OECF   APBN  PRIVATE          AS % OP    COST
Rp '000           BANK                                   TOTAL
1. Expansion of Student Place
New Students                          45.895   14,040  5,760   9,600  16,495      0   30.6
l. I School Construction
SMP 6 Classrooms           518,600        82       41             40              1   50.0   21.262.000
SMP 9 Classrooms                                          16
SMP Terbuka. investment     79,000       162       21                           141    13.0    1.659,000
SMP Terbuka. recurrent      23.000                                                0             1.472.000
1.2. Facilities
Teacher Housing             92.500       225       25                           200      11    2.312.500
Student Dormitories         69.000       173       25                           148    14.4    1.725,000
Water Supply                 2.500       272       54                           218   24.8       135.000
1.3. Scholarship Years                300    26,400   26,400                             0   100.0    7.920,000
Sub-Total                                                                                            36,486,100
% Sub -Total                                                                                              61.80
11. Quality Improvement
2.1. Teacher Development
Up-grading DI/D2 to D3        1,100     1,305    1,305                            0   100.0    1,435,500
Certification (Akta)           550      1,045    1,045                            0   100.0      574,750
In-service training MGMP       130    48,192   48,192                             0   100.0    6,264,960
PKG Model C                   1,000     1,530    1,530                            0   100.0    1,530,000
KKMKS (principals meetings)    130     2,768    2,768                             0   100.0      359,840
Guru Inti                     1,100      484      484                             0   100.0      532,400
2.2. Learning Materials Packages
Library Books                2,000       697      697                             0   100.0    1,394,000
Teaching Aids (Sci,Math,Eng)    5,000    697      697                             0   100.0    3,485,000
2.3. Contract Teachers              3.000       485     485                              0   100.0    1,455,000
Sub-Total                                                                                             17,031,450
% Sub -Total                                                                                              28.90
m. Management Capacity Building
3.1 Management Training
School Principals              500       697     697                              0   100.0      348,500
KenwiUKandep Staff             500       170      170                             0   100.0       85,000
Project Staff                  750        22       22                             0   100.0        16,500
3.2. Information Management Training
Kandep/Kanwil MIS Operators    450       170      170                             0   100.0       76,500
Schools Administrators         450      1,394    1,394                            0   100.0      627,300
3.3 Decision Support Unit
Kanwil                      85,000         1        1                             0   100.0       85,000
Kandep                      50,000        14       14                             0   100.0      700,000
Schools                      15,000       48       48                             0   100.0      720,000
Sub-Total                                                                                             2,658,800
% Sub-Total                                                                                                4.50
IV. Operational
4.1. Consultants
-National                     7,000      120      120                             0   100.0      840,000
4.2. Monitoring and Evaluation     100,000        5        5                             0   100.0      500,000
4.4. Project Operatine Costs       20,000        60      60                              0   100.0    1,500,000
Sub-Total                                                                                              2,840,000
% Sub-Total                                                                                                 4.80
Grand Total                                                                                                  59,016,350
% Grand Total                                                                                             100.00



Annex 13: Page 30 of 32                                          133
INDONESIA
SUMATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
JAMBI REQUIREMENTS
INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES            UNIT    TOTAL            TO BE FINANCED BY      REMAIN      WORLD BANK
COST   REQUESTED  WORLD   OECF   APBN  PRIVATE          AS % OF    COST
Rp'000             BANK      __        _                 TOTAL
1. Expansion of Student Place
New Students                            32,525   9,400   2.880   8,400  11,845      0   28.9
1. 1. School Construction
SMP 6 Classrooms             518.600       105      20             35             50    19.0   10,372,000
SMP 9 Classrooms                                             8
SMP Terbuka, investment       79,000       202      23                            179    11.4    1,817,000
SMP Terbuka, recurrent        23.000                                                0   100.0    1,610,000
1.2. Facilities
Teacher Housing               92,500        72      13                             59   18.1    1,202.500
Student Dormitories           69,000        20      13                              7   65.0      897,000
Water Supply                   2,500       219      44                            175   20.1      110,000
1.3. Scholarship Years                  300    14,400  14,400                             0   100.0    4,320,000
Sub-Total                                                                                             20,328,500
% Sub -Total                                                                                               61.90
U. Quality Improvement
2.1. Teacher Development
Up-grading DI/D2 to D3          1,100      419     419                             0   100.0      460.900
Certification (Akta)             550       947     947                             0   100.0      520,850
In-service training MGMP         130    15,500  15,500                             0   100.0    2.015.000
PKG Model C                     1,000      543     543                             0   100.0      543,000
KKMKS (principals meetings)      130     1,884   1,884                             0   100.0
Guru Inti                       1,100      108     108                              0   100.0
2.2. Learning Materials Packages
Library Books                  2,000       466     466                             0   100.0      932,000
Teaching Aids (Sci,Math,Eng)   5,000       466     466                             0   100.0    2,330,000
2.3. Contract Teachers                3,000       434     434                              0   100.0    1,302,000
Sub-Total                                                                                              8,464,870
% Sub -Total                                                                                               25.90
III. Management Capacity Building
3.1 Management Training
School Principals                500       466     466                             0   100.0      233,000
Kenwil/Kandep Staff              500        90      90                             0   100.0       45,000
Project Staff                    750        22      22                             0   100.0       16,500
3.2. Information Manaeement Training
KandeplKanwil MIS Operators      450        90      90                             0   100.0       40,500
Schools Administrators           450       932     932                             0   100.0      419,400
3.3 Decision Support Unit
Kanwil                        85,000         l       1                             0   100.0       85,000
Kandep                        50.000         6       6                             0   100.0      300.000
Schools                       15,000        20      20                             0   100.0      300,000
Sub-Total                                                                                               1,439,400
% Sub-Total                                                                                                 4.40
IV. Operational
4.1. Consultants
-National                      7,000       120     120                             0   100.0      840,000
4.2. Monitoring and Evaluation      100,000         5       5                              0   100.0     500,000
4.4. Project Operating Costs         20,000        60      60                              0   100.0    1,200,000
Sub-Total                                                                                               2,540,000
% Sub-Total                                                                                                 7.80
Grand Total                                            -        -                                            32,772,770
% Grand Total                                   _100.00



134                                   Annex 13: Page 31 of 32
INDONESIA
SUMATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SOUTH SUMATRA REQUIREMENTS
p. ..k5\,W wk4
INVESTnENTACTIVMTTES           UNIT    TOTAL            TO BE FINANCED BY        REMAIN      WORLD BANK
COST   REQUESTED  WORLD   OECF   APBN  PRIVATE          AS % OF     COST
Rp'0O0            BANIK                                  TOTAL
I. Expansion of Student Place
New Students                          130,166   22,400  18,000  14,400  75,366     0    17.2
1.1. School Construction
SMP 6 Classrooms            518,600      445       70             35             340   66.7   36,302,000
SMP 9 Classrooms                                           50
SMP Terbuka, investment      79,000      474       28                            446    5.9    2,212,000
SMP Terbuka, recurrent       23,000                                                0             1,932,000
1.2. Facilities
Teacher Housing              92,500      125       44                             81     35     4,070,000
Student Dormitories          69,000       78       12                             66   15.4       828,000
Water Supply                  2,500      233       54                            179   23.2       135,000
1 .3. Scholarship Years              300    34,000   34,000                              0  100.0   10,200,000
Sub-Total                                                                                             55,679,000
% Sub -Total                                                                                              67.00
11. Quality Improvement
2. 1. Teacher Development
Up-grading DI/D2 to D3        1,100      593      593                              0  100.0       652,300
Certification (Akta)           550      1,205    1,205                             0   100.0      662,750
In-service training MGMP        130    45,888  45,888                              0   100.0    5,962,840
PKG Model C                   1,000     1,810    1,810                             0   100.0    1,810,000
KKMKS (principals meetings)     130    4,332    4,332                              0   100.0      563,160
Guru Inti                     1,100      360      360                              0   100.0      396,000
2.2. Learning Materials Packages
Library Books                 2,000     1,083    1,083                             0  100.0    2,166,000
Teaching Aids (Sci,Math,Eng)    5,000   1,083    1,083                             0  100.0    5,415,000
2.3. Contract Teachers              3,000     1,200    1,200                             0  100.0    3,600,000
Sub-Total                                                                                             21,228,050
% Sub -Total                                                                                              25.60
IIl. Management Capacity Building
3.1 Management Training
School Principals              500      1,083    1,083                             0   100.0      541,500
Kenwil/Kandep Staff            500       130      130                              0  100.0        65,000
Project Staff                  750        22       22                              0   100.0       16,500
3.2. Information Management Training
Kandep/Kanwil MIS Operators    450       130      130                              0  100.0        58,500
Schools Administrators         450     2,186    2,186                              0   100.0      983,700
3.3 Decision Support Unit
Kanwil                       85,000        l        1                              0  100.0        85,000
Kandep                       50,000       10       10                              0  100.0       500,000
Schools                      15,000       58       58                              0   100.0      870,000
Sub-Total                                                                                             3,120,200
% Sub-Total                                                         .                                      3.80
IV. Operational
4.1. Consultants
-National                     7,000      120      120                              0   100.0      840,000
4.2. Monitoring and Evaluation    100,000        5        5                              0   100.0      500,000
4.4. Project Operating Costs       20,000       60       60                              0  100.0    1,500,000
Sub-Total                                                                                              2,840,000
% Sub-Total                                                                                                 3.40
Grand  Total                                                                                                 82,867,250
% Grand Total                                                                                             100.00



Annex 13: Page 32 of 32                                          135
INDONESIA
SUNATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
LAMPUNG REQUIREMENTS
pvck5\\kap sk4
INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES          UNIT    TOTAL            TO BE FINANCED BY       REMAIN      WORLD BANK
COST   REQUESTED WVORLD   OECF   APBN  PRIVATE          AS % OF    COST
Rp '000           BANK                                   TOTAL
I. Expansion of Student Place
New Students                          99,457  21,520  21,240  13,200  43,497       0   21.6
1.1. School Construction
SMP 6 Classrooms           518,600      290       53             35             202    18.3  27,465,800
SMP 9 Classrooms                                          50
SMP Terbuka, investment     79,000      285       44                            241    15.4  3,476,000
SMP Terbuka, recurrent      23,000                                                 0          3,036,000
1.2. Facilities
Teacher Housing             92,500       134      27                             107   20.2  2.497,500
Student Dormitories         69,000       Ill     I                                             759,000
Water Supply                 2,500       108      21                             87   19.4       52,500
1.3. Scholarship Years               300    34,400  34,400                               0  100.0  10,320,000
Sub-Total                                                                                           47,626,800
% Sub -Total                                                                                            65.60
n1. Quality Improvement
2. 1. Teacher Development
Up-grading DI/D2 to D3        1,100      841     841                               0  100.0    925,100
Certification (Akta)           550     1,174   1,174                               0   100.0    645,700
In-service training MGM.P      130   48,348  48,348                                0  100.0  6.285,240
PKG Model C                   1,000    2,043   2,043                               0  100.0  2,043,000
KKMKS (principals meetings)    130    4,704   4,704                                0  100.0    611,520
Guru Inti                    1,100       360     360                               0  100.0    396,000
2.2. Learnine Materials Packayes
Library Books                2,000     1,179   1,178                              0   100.0  2,352,000
Teaching Aids (Sci,Math,Eng)    5,000  1,179   1,178                               0  100.0  5.880,000
2.3. Contract Teachers              3,000      371     371                               0  100.0           0
Sub-Total                                                                                           20,251,560
% Sub -Total                                                                                            27.90
mU. Management Capacity Building
3.1 Manse t Training
School Principals              500     1,176   1,176                              0   100.0          0
Kenwil/Kandep Staff            500       80       80                              0  100.0       36,000
Project Staff                  750       22       22                              0  100.0        9,900
3.2. Information Management Training
Kandep/Kanwil MIS Operators    450       80       80                              0  100.0  4,000,000
Schools Administrators         450     1,176   1,176                              0  100.0  17,640,000
3.3 Decision Support Unit
Kanwil                      85,000         1       l                              0   100.0          0
Kandep                      50,000         5       5                              0   100.0          0
Schools                      15,000      40       40                              0   100.0          0
Sub-Total                                                                                           21,685,900
% Sub-Total                                                                                              3.00
IV. Operational
4. 1. Consultants
-National                    7,000        60     120                              0   100.0    840,000
4.2. Monitoring and Evaluation    100,000        5       5                               0   100.0          0
4.4. Proiect Operating Costs       20.000       60      60                               0   100.0   1,200,000
Sub-Total                                                                                            2,040,000
% Sub-Total                                                                                              3.50
Grand Total                                                                                               91,604,260
% Grand Total                                                   _          .                           100.00



INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Technical Assistance Summary                                                                          -
Status of TOR (Date)   Short List (Date)  Standard   Responsibility
Type of TA Activity       Purpose/Objectives     Implementing Total Cost  Person                                             contract   for supervision
Agency    (US$'000)  month                                               prepared
Prepared  Expected   Prepared  Expected  (Y/N) /a    RSI    HQ
A. Institutional Capacity
Building
1. Teacher supervisor training   Design and implement a training  PCU     67       60 (D)               10/96                TBD       Y                 X
program for teacher supervisors
to improve in-service teacher
training.
2. D-11 level Upgrading for  Evaluate current program,       PCU         348       113 (D)    07/96                          TBD        Y                X
underqualified SMP       redesign and implement the                               6 (I)
teachers                  D-l1l program for underqualified
social science and Bahasa                                                                                                                X
Indonesia teachers.
B. Implementation                                                                                                                                                      X
Support
1. Management and           Assist provincial PlUs in overall  PlUs     1,802     600 (D)               10/96                TBD       Y         X
implementation           management of the project;
provide technical advice on all  PCU         900       60 (1)              01/97                 TBD       Y                X
project activites; and
Assist Kandep project staff in
all aspects of project imple-
mentation
2. Procurement and audits   Assist CPCU and PPIUs in all     PCU          607       82 (D)              09/96                TBD        Y        X       X
specialists               aspects of procurement                                 24 (I)
related activities.
3. Monitoring & evaluation   Monitoring of implementation  PlUs/PCU      1,068     270 (D)              01/97                 TBD       Y        X
progress in the five project
provinces and mid-term
review
Total /b                         4,792    1,215
1,125 (0)
90 (l)
/a Standard contract form is available at RSI.
/b Baseline costs.
NOTE: D = Domestic consultants; I = International consultants.



INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
D.l. Aceh Province
Procurement Plan - Contracting and Review Responsibilities
r_______                Contract
Total  Estimated                                                      Bank       Documents
value   contract   DIP/INPRES     Procurement        Kind of         review      required for
Category                (US$M)  quantity    allocation        method            review         by /a      disbursement
1. Civil works
Small contract <$50,000                     1.0       23     Kanwil         Shopping        Random post      RSI/SPN         SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$500,000        9.0       29     Kanwil            NCB          Random post      RSI/SPN         SOE
Large contract >$500,000                      0        0       na              na                na             na            na
First 5 contracts each year                           20     Kanwil           NCB               Prior           RSI           full
2. Equipment and educational materials/books
Small contract <$50,000                     0.4       20     Kanwil         Shopping        Random post         RSI          SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$200,000        1.0       15      Kanwil          NCB           Random post       RSI/SPN        SOE
Specific and Large contract >$200,000       1.0        5     Kanwil           ICB               prior           TM            full
Books and modules                           0.8       na      Kanwil        Shopping        Random post         RSI          SOE
Books and modules (proprietary items)       0.4       na      Kanwil      Direct purchase       prior          SPN         full/SOE
3. Furniture
Small contract <$50,000                     0.3       10      Kanwil        Shopping        Random post       RSI/SPN        SOE             U
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$200,000        0.7        8      Kanwil           NCB          Random post         RSI          SOE
Large contract >$200,000 (if any)           0.0        0      Kanwil          NCB               Prior           RSI           full
4. In-country training                          4.8      na      Kanwil          Other         Random post         SPN           SOE
5. Consultancy service & studies
Firm >$100,000                              0.0        0       na              na                na             na            na
Individual >$50,000                         0.3        2      Kanwil         Short list         prior           TM            full
Individual <$50,000                         0.3       10      Kanwil          Other          Limitd prior       RSI          SOE
Others (if any)                                             Dikmenum         Short list         Prior           TM            full
6. Scholarships                                 2.0      na      Kanwil          Other         Random post       SPN/RSI         SOE
7. Contract teachers                            0.8      na      Kanwil          Other         Random post       SPN/RSI         SOE
8. Operating costs                              0.8      na      Kanwil          Other         Random post         RSI           SOE
Total                     23.6      122
RSI = Resident Staff in Indonesia; SPN = Supervision Missions; TM = Task Manager.
/a For random post-review, a project-financed consultant will provide assistance. For contracts subject to random post-review, one out of five
such contracts will be reviewed in the first year of implementation and one out of 20 such contracts in the succeeding years.



INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
West Sumatra Province
Procurement Plan - Contracting and Review Responsibilities
iF                                                                                                        Contract                                        00
Total  Estimated                                                         Bank        Documents
value   contract   DIP/INPRES       Procurement         Kind of          review      required for
Category                 (US$M)  quantity    allocation          method            review           by /a      disbursement
1. Civil works
Small contract <$50,000                        1.4       40      Kanwil         Shopping         Random post       RSI/SPN          SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$500,000           9.7       30      Kanwil           NCB            Random post       RSI/SPN          SOE
Large contract >$500,000                        0         0       na               na                 na              na             na
First 5 contracts each year                              20      Kanwil           NCB                Prior            RSI           full
2. Equipment and educational materials/books
Small contract <$50,000                       0.5        20      Kanwil         Shopping         Random post          RSI           SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$200,000           0.9       12      Kanwil           NCB            Random post       RSI/SPN          SOE
Specific and Large contract >$200,000          1.2        4      Kanwil           ICB                prior            TM            full
Books and modules                             0.9        16      Kanwil         Shopping         Random post          RSI           SOE
Books and modules (proprietary items)          0.4       na      Kanwil       Direct purchase        prior           SPN          full/SOE
3. Furniture
Small contract <$50,000                        0.2       10      Kanwil         Shopping         Random post       RSI/SPN          SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$200,000           0.8        8      Kanwil            NCB           Random post          RSI           SOE
Large contract >$200,000 (if any)             0.0         0      Kanwil            NCB               Prior            RSI           full
4. In-country training                            6.3       na      Kanwil            Other         Random post          SPN           SOE
5. Consultancy service & studies
Firm  >$100,000                               0.0         0        na               na                na              na             na
Individual >$50,000                            0.3        2      Kanwil          Short list          prior            TM            full
Individual <$50,000                            0.4       10      Kanwil           Other           Limitd prior        RSI           SOE
6. Scholarships                                   2.5       na      Kanwil            Other         Random post        SPN/RSI         SOE
7. Contract teachers                              0.7       na       Kanwil           Other         Random post        SPN/RSI         SOE
8. Operating costs                                0.8       na      Kanwil            Other         Random post          RSI           SOE
Total                      27.0       152
RSI = Resident Staff in Indonesia; SPN - Supervision Missions; TM = Task Manager.
/a For random post-review, a project-financed consultant will provide assistance. For contracts subject to random post-review, one out of five
such contracts will be reviewed in the first year of implementation and one out of 20 such contracts in the succeeding years.



INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Jambi Province
Procurement Plan - Contracting and Review Responsibilities
Contract     _      
Total  Estimated                                                        Bank       Documents
value   contract   DIP/INPRES      Procurement         Kind of         review      required for
Category                 (US$M)  quantity    allocation        method             review          by /a     disbursement
1   Civil works
Small contract <$50,000                      1.0       20      Kanwil         Shopping        Random post       RSI/SPN         SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$500,000         4.5       20      Kanwil           NCB           Random post       RSI/SPN         SOE
Large contract >$500,000                       0        0        na              na                na              na            na
First 5 contracts each year                            20      Kanwil           NCB               Prior            RSI          full
2. Equipment and educational materials/books
Small contract <$50,000                      0.3       15      Kanwil         Shopping        Random post          RSI          SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$200,000         0.6       10      Kanwil           NCB           Random post       RSI/SPN         SOE
Specific and Large contract >$200,000        0.7        3      Kanwil           ICB               prior            TM           full
Books and modules                            0.8       15      Kanwil         Shopping        Random post          RSI          SOE
Books and modules (proprietary items)        0.3       na      Kanwil       Direct purchase       prior            TM         full/SOE
3. Furniture
Small contract <$50,000                      0.1        6      Kanwil         Shopping        Random post       RSI/SPN         SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$200,000         0.4        4      Kanwil           NCB           Random post          RSI          SOE
Large contract >$200,000 (if any)            0.0        0      Kanwil           NCB               Prior            RSI          full
4. in-country training                           2.6       na      Kanwil          Other          Random post         SPN           SOE
5. Consultancy service & studies
Firm  >$100,000                              0.0        0        na              na                na              na            na
Individual >$50,000                          0.3         2     Kanwil          Short list         prior            TM            full
Individual <$50,000                          0.4       10      Kanwil           Other          Limitd prior        RSI          SOE
Others (if any)                                              Dikmenum          Short list         Prior            TM            full
6. Scholarships                                  1.4       na      Kanwil          Other          Random post       SPN/RSI         SOE
7. Contract teachers                             0.7       na      Kanwil          Other          Random post       SPN/RSI         SOE
8. Operating costs                               0.7       na      Kanwil          Other          Random post         RSI           SOE
Total                      14.8      105
RSI = Resident Staff in Indonesia; SPN   Supervision Missions; TM = Task Manager.
/a For random post-review, a project-financed consultant will provide assistance. For contracts subject to random post-review, one out of iive
such contracts will be reviewed in the first year of implementation and one out of 20 such contracts in the succeeding years.
LL-                                                                 -=    = = = 



INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
South Sumatra Province
Procurement Plan - Contracting and Review Responsibilities
Contract 
Total  Estimated                                                        Bank       Documents
value   contract   DIP/INPRES      Procurement         Kind of         review      required for
Category                 (US$M)  quantity    allocation        method             review          by /a     disbursement
1. Civil works
Small contract <$50,000                      1.6       44      Kanwil         Shopping        Random post       RSI/SPN         SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$500,000         16.4      53      Kanwil           NCB           Random post        RSI/SPN        SOE
Large contract >$500,000                       0         0       na              na                na              na            na
First 5 contracts each year                            20      Kanwil           NCB               Prior            RSI           full
2. Equipment and educational materials/books
Small contract <$50,000                      0.6       20      Kanwil         Shopping        Random post          RSI          SOE               :
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$200,000         1.4        10     Kanwil           NCB           Random post       RSI/SPN         SOE
Specific and Large contract >$200,000        1.6         4     Kanwil           ICB               prior            TM           full
Library books and modules                     1.2      24      Kanwil          Shopping       Random post          RSI          SOE               -
Books and modules (proprietary items)        0.6        na     Kanwil       Direct purchase       prior            TM         full/SOE
3. Furniture
Small contract <$50,000                      0.3        10     Kanwil         Shopping        Random post       RSI/SPN         SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$200,000         1.4        8      Kanwil           NCB           Random post          RSI          SOE
Large contract >$200,000 (if any)            0.0        0      Kanwil           NCB               Prior            RSI           full
4. In-country training                           6.3       na      Kanwil          Other          Random post         SPN           SOE
5. Consultancy service & studies
Firm  >$100,000                              0.0        0        na              na                na              na            na
Individual >$50,000                          0.3        2      Kanwil          Short list         prior            TM           full
Individual <$50,000                          0.4       10      Kanwil           Other          Limitd prior        RSI          SOE
Others (if any)                                              Dikmenum          Short list         Prior            TM           full
6. Scholarships                                  3.3       na      Kanwil          Other          Random post       SPN/RSI         SOE
7. Contract teachers                             1.9       na      Kanwil          Other          Random post       SPN/RSI         SOE
8. Operating costs                               0.8       na      Kanwil          Other          Random post         RSI           SOE
Total                      38.1      185
RSI = Resident Staff in Indonesia; SPN = Supervision Missions; TM = Task Manager.
/a For random post-review, a project-financed consultant will provide assistance. For contracts subject to random post-review, one out of five
such contracts will be reviewed in the first year of implementation and one out of 20 such contracts in the succeeding years.



INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Lampung Province
Procurement Plan - Contracting and Review Responsibilities
Contract
Total  Estimated                                                      Bank       Documents
value   contract   DIP/INPRES     Procurement        Kind of         review      required for
Category                (US$M)  quantity    allocation        method           review          by /a      disbursement
1  Civil works
Small contract <$50,000                     1.0       30     Kanwil         Shopping        Random post      RSI/SPN         SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$500,000       12.4       40      Kanwil           NCB          Random post      RSI/SPN         SOE
Large contract >$500,000                      0        0       na              na                na             na            na
First 5 contracts each year                           20      Kanwil           NCB              Prior           RSI           full
2. Equipment and educational materials/books                                                                                                    S
Small contract <$50,000                     0.6       20     Kanwil         Shopping        Random post         RSI          SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$200,000        1.6       17      Kanwil           NCB          Random post       RSI/SPN        SOE
Specific and Large contract >$200,000       1.5        4     Kanwil           ICB               prior           TM            full
Library books and modules                   1.6       30      Kanwil        Shopping        Random post         RSI          SOE
Books and modules (proprietary items)       0.8       na      Kanwil      Direct purchase       prior           TM         full/SOE
3. Furniture                                                                                                                                    O
Small contract <$50,000                     0.3       10      Kanwil        Shopping        Random post       RSI/SPN        SOE
Medium contract >$50,000 - <$200,000        1.0        8      Kanwil           NCB          Random post         RSI          SOE             t
Large contract >$200,000 (if any)           0.0        0      Kanwil           NCB              Prior           RSI           full
4. In-country training                          6.6      na      Kanwil          Other         Random post         SPN           SOE
5. Consultancy service & studies
Firm  >$100,000                             0.0        0       na              na                na             na            na
Individual >$50,000                         0.3        2      Kanwil         Short list         prior           TM            full
Individual <$50,000                         0.4       15      Kanwil          Other          Limitd prior       RSI          SOE
Others (if any)                                             Dikmenum         Short list         Prior           TM            full
6. Scholarships                                 3.3      na      Kanwil          Other         Random post       SPN/RSI         SOE
7. Contract teachers                            0.6      na      Kanwil           Other         Random post      SPN/RSI         SOE
8. Operating costs                              0.6      na      Kanwil          Other         Random post         RSI           SOE
Total                     32.6      176
RSI = Resident Staff in Indonesia; SPN = Supervision Missions; TM = Task Manager.
l a For random post-review, a project-financed consultant will provide assistance. For contracts subject to random post-review, one out of five
such contracts will be reviewed in the first year of implementation and one out of 20 such contracts in the succeeding years.-



142             Annex 16: Page 1 of I
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year      Amount per       Cumulative             Disbursement profile /a
and semester         semester       amount                          (%)
---------(US$ million)----------  %
FY97
2                   3.0 /b         3.0           3               0
FY98
1                   2.0            5.0           5               0
2                   5.0            10.0         10               3
FY99
1                   8.0           18.0          18               6
2                   8.0           26.0          27              10
FY00
1                  10.0           36.0         37               22
2                  10.0           46.0          47              34
FY01
1                  11.0           57.0         58               42
2                  11.0           68.0          69              54
FY02
1                  11.0           79.0         81               66
2                  11.0           90.0          92              74
FY03
1                   8.0           98.0        100               82
Project Completion Date:  March 31, 2002
Project Closing Date:   September 30, 2002
/a Latest standard disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia (1995).
/b An estimated initial deposit to the Special Account.



Annex 17: Page I of 3                     143
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Sample Reporting Format
Project Accounts
Statement of Project Receipts and Expenditures
For the year                Cumulative
ended                         to
Cost Items                           March 31.-
Funds Received:
Government of Indonesia
IBRD
Other (if any, identify)
Total
Expenditure:
Civil works
Equipment
Furniture
Educational materials
Training
Domestic consultants
International consultants
Contract teachers
Scholarships
Operating costs
Recurrent costs
(Terbuka operations)
Total



144                      Annex 1 7: Page 2 of 3
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Sample Reporting Format
Project Accounts
Statement of Costs by Project Component
For the year          Cumulative
Component                        ended                   to
March 31. -----
1. Increasing Access to JSE
Regular schools
Alternative equivalency programs
(Terbuka)
Scholarship program
Student & teacher accommodation
Subtotal
2. Improving Quality
Teacher Training
Tools for effective teaching
Contract teachers
Subtotal
3. Strengthening Education Management
Managerial capacity
Information management
Subtotal
4. Support for Project Management
Project management
Monitoring and evaluation
Subtotal
Total Costs



Annex 17: Page 3 of 3                    145
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
Monitoring
Cost Reporting Format
Province:
1996/97 1997/98 1998/99 1999/00 2000/01 2001/02
1. Increasing Access to JSE
Civil works
Equipment & furniture
Educational materials
Training
Scholarships
Recurrent costs
Subtotal
2. Improving Quality
Equipment & furniture
Educational materials
Training
Domestic consultants
International consultlants
Contract teachers
Operating costs
Subtotal
3. Strengthening Education Management
Equipment and furniture
Educational materials
In-country training
Domestic consultanits
International consultants
Operating costs
Subtotal
4. Support for Project Management
Educational materials
Domestic consultants
International consultants
Operating costs
Subtotal
Total



146                      Annex 18: Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILES AND
RELEVANT BIBLIOGRAPHY
Provincial Proposals
Ministry of Education and Culture, Provincial Office of the DI Aceh Province, Proposal
for the Project of Junior High School Expansion and Enhancement in the Ouality
of High School in the Acch Province, 1996.
Ministry of Education and Culture, Provincial Office of the West Sumatra Province,
Proposal for the Project of Junior High School Expansion and Enhancement in the
Quality of High School in the West Sumatra Province, 1996.
Ministry of Education and Culture, Provincial Office of the Lampung Province, Proposal
for the Pro-ject of Junior High School Expansion and Enhancement in the Quality
of High School in the Lampung Province, 1996.
Ministry of Education and Culture, Provincial Office of the South Sumatra Province,
Proposal for the Pro-ject of Junior High School Expansion and Enhancement in the
Quality of High School in the South Sumatra Province, 1996.
Ministry of Education and Culture, Provincial Office of the Jambi Province, Proposal for
the Project of Junior High School Expansion and Enhancement in the Quality o
High School in the Jambi Province, 1996.
JGF-funded Support Papers
Apergis S., The Case for Support of Private Education, Working Paper, 1995
Apergis S., Raising Demand for Junior Secondary Education Among the Poor in
Indonesia, Working Paper, 1996
Dhanani S., Demand for Junior Secondary Education in Indonesia, Working Paper, 1996
E-laribowo H., Consultancy Report Examinations, Working Paper, 1995
Mahady R., Nielsen D., Somerset A., Wardani I., Secondary Education in Indonesia:
Strengthening Teacher Competency and Student Learning, Working Paper, 1996



Annex 18. Page 2 of 2             147
Nasution, N., Initial Findings and Recommendations on Science and Technology
Education in Secondary School, Working Paper. 1996
Richardson P. and Syamsun M., Junior Secondary Education Project: Information
Management and Utilization, Working Paper, 1996
Suyata, Community Participation in Secondary School Program, Working Paper, 1995
Other Documents
Boediono & Hidayat Syarief, Pendidikan dan Pertumbuhan Ekonomi (Education and
Economic Growth), Jakarta, 1996
Education Consortium, Department of Education and Culture, Project Proposal.
Secondary School Teacher Development Project, 1994
Ministry of Education and Culture, Departemen Pendidikan dan Kebudayaan, Modul
SMP Terbuka. Bahasa Indonesia, 1994-95
Ministry of Education and Culture, Departemen Pendidikan dan Kebudayaan, Modul
SMP Terbuka. Matematika, 1994-95
World Bank/OED, Indonesian Education and the World Bank: An Assessment of Two
Decades of Lending, Report No.9752, June 1991
World Bank, Indonesia Growth. Infrastructure and Human Resources, Report # 10470-
IND, May 1992
World Bank, Regional Manpower Planning and Training Project, Provisional Data
Tables, December 1995
World Bank, SAR, Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project, January
1996



148                            Annex 19: Ptage I of 3
INDONESIA
Sumatra Junior Secondary Education Project
NAMES OF PEOPLE INVOLVED IN PROJECT PREPARATION
Central (Dikmenum)
I.    Z.A. Achmnady                       Director Genieral of PSE
2.     Boediono                           Director of Dikmenum
3.     Baedhowi                           Head of DGPSE Planning Division
4.     Sungkowo                           Head of Sub-Dit Monitor
5.    A. Rivanto                          Head of Sub-Dit SMA
6.     Ramidjo                            Head of Sub-Dit SMP
7.     Bambang Irianto                    Pimpro PPAAIPA/PKG
8.     Shafiq Dhanani                     Coordinator of Consultants
9.    IbrahimT Musa                       Consultant
II.    Technical Assistants at Dikmenum
1.    Alwi K. Ismail
2.     Firdaus Yuni Dharta
3.     Ruslv Mahady
4.     Dharma L. Musa
5.     Yulmnaizar
6.     Kodni Efsandia
7.     Rurry Faturachman
III.   Kanwil of South Sumatra
1.    A. Hamed Safei                      Head of Kanwil
2.     Achmad Rivai                       Head of Dikmenum
3.     Sunardi                            Head of Planning
4.     Asnawi                             Staff of Planning
5.    Janwar                              Staff of Dikmenumn
6.     Abdul Madjid                       Head of Kandep OKI
7.    Nila Utarna                         Head of Kandep OKU
8.     Rusfendy Ismail                    Head of Kandep MUBA
9.     A. Jalil Bakri                     Head of Kandep Muara Enim
10.   Bustoni Manan                       Head of Kandep Lahat
11.   Sayuti R. Djavaputra                Head of Kandep Musi Rawas
12.   Abdullah DS                         for Kodya Pangkal Pinang
13.   A. Fattah Marzin                    Head of Kandep Belitung
14.   EM Katamsi                          Head of Kodya Palembang
15.    Sugiraya                           Head of Kandep Bangka



Annex 19: Page 2 of 3                    149
IV.   Kanwil of Lampung
1.    Enggus Subarman                     Head of Kanwil
2.     Agus H. Baturga                    Head of Dikmenum
3.     Dailami Zen                        Head of Planning
4.     Marmin                             Staff of Dikmenum
5.     Sugio                              Staff of Planning
6.     A. Djohansyah                      Head of Kandep Lampung Utara
7.     Usman K. Andaya                    Head of Kandep Lampung Selatan
8.     Rusman Winata                      Head of Kandep Lampung Barat
9.     R. Ahmad Matin                     Head of Kandep Lampung Tengah
10.   Amami Amilla                        Head of Kandep Kodya Bandar Lampung
V.    Kanwil of Jambi
1.    Soedjarno                           Head of Kanwil
2.     Gazali                             Head of Dikmenum
3.     Sitorus                            Staff of Planning
4.     Herman                             Staff of Dikmenum
5.     Bustanudin                         Staff of Dikmenum
6.     Sharul                             Staff of Dikmenum
VI.   Kanwil of West Sumatra
I.    Ismet Svarif                        Head of Kanwil
2.     Bachtiar Hascal                    Head of Dikmenum
3.     Andarwanis AB                      Head of Planning
4.     Daniel                             Staff of Dikmenum
5.    Idham Hasan                         Staff of Planning
6.     Nasrul Kamil                       Head of Kandep Kodya Padang
7.     Said All                           Head of Kandep Kodya Padang Panjang
8.     Busnizar Raza                      Head of Kandep Kodya Sawah Lunto
9.    Idris                               Head of Kandep Payakumbuh
10.    Asrin Zainal                       Head of Kandep Kodya Bukittinggi
11.    Djamhur Sjarif                     Head of Kandep Kodya Solok
12.    Ramawi Jas                         Head of Kandep Kab Pasaman
13.    Syibli Syarif                      Head of Kandep Kab Padang Pariaman
14.    Lukman                             Head of Kandep Kab Pesisir Selatan
15.   Syafel Abdullah                     Head of Kandep Kab Sawahlunto/Sijunjung
16.   Aswandi Janab                       Head of Kandep Kab 50 Kota
17.    Sali Suman                         Head of Kandep Kab Solok
18.   Matius                              Head of Kandep Kab Agam
19.   Tamyus TM                           Head of Kandep Kab Tanah Datar



150                                Annex 19: Page 3 of 3
VII.  Kanwil of DI Aceh
I .    Daeng Malefa                       Head of Kanwil
2.     Syarofah Djafri                    Kormin of Kanwil
3.     Hassan Usman                       Head of Dikmenum
4.     A. Malik Raden                     Head of Planning
5.     Wahidin                            Staff of Planning
6.     Zakaria                            Staff of Dikmenum
7.     Syech Ahmaddin                     Head of Kandep Kodya Banda Aceh
8.     Muhammad Husin Ali                 Head of Kandep Kadya Sabang
9.     Djakfar Raden                      Head of Kandep Kab Aceh Besar
10.   Zulkifli UA                         Head of Kandep Pidie
I.    Pansung Wansim                     Head of Kandep Aceh Utara
12.   Amudy AE                            Head of Kandep Aceh Timur
13.   M. Amin R.                          Head of Kandep Aceh Tengah
14.   Sulaiman                            Head of Kandep Aceh Barat
15.   H. Sudarmansyah                     Head of Kandep Aceh Selatan
16.   Hasanuddin Darjo                    Head of Kandep Aceh Tenggara
VIII. PHRD Preparation Consultants
I .    Stavros Apergis                     Economic Analysis
2.     Herwindo Haribowo                   National Examinations
3.     Bambang Irianto                     Teacher Competency and Student
Learning
4.     Archie Lapointe                     Student Performance Assessment
5.     Rusty Mahady                        Teacher Competency and Student
Learning
6.     Colin Moyle                         Planning and Management
7.    Noehi Nasoetion                      Science Education
8.     Dean Nielsen                        Teacher Competency and Student
Learning
9.     Paul Richardson                     Information Management and
Utilization
10.   Tony Somerset                        Teacher Competency and Student
Learning
11.   Suyata                               Community Participation
12.   Mohammad Syamsum                     Information Management and
Utilization
13.   IG A.K. Wardani                      Teacher Competency and Student
Learning
14.   Rachmat Wiradinata                   Planning and Management



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28131
_1. THAILAND
- * -. .-~~~~~~  *  *' ~~INDONESIA
SUMATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY
VT                 0.1.                                  ,   -s, >_EDUCATION PROJECT
C *  aAceh  ACEH
5-
T _ . . X   t      4                                               V                      W PROJECT PROIANCES
'()  PROVINCE (PROPINSI) CAPITALS
M.uloZt     t~-''~          *KXJZ-                          MALAYSIA                 '                 *   NATIONALCAPIIAL
--DISTRICT (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
Ni             'Madax *-'                                                           - C?n     =     PROVINCE (PROPINSI) BOUNDARIES
- .' (--  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0'
X,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a-'0  4'\9i  'l  'l 
SUMATERA  <C                               N
UTARA
C\, t-.-~'  ,GAPORE                  South
N            \              2 , RIAU                     g                          China
Pelcanbaru               CU                                        Sea
0'                                   ;0 ',,    9                                              X           >                                     J-
INDIAN
OCEAN                                   RATad-' ) 
tBARAkCJclf u gJAMBO-"" -  >                             I
N ~   ~      ~     W
./ BENOJULU                      /   ,p                       SUMATERA
__________________ _  Bengkulu                                       SELATAN
iSUNEI_ -          '-Z   EILIPPINES
~ '-,  M.A L A Y S I A   S t5   , |  PACIFIC OCEAN
' 7ilN 3AK)RE.''f ~2< .,
KALIM4ANTAN                                    5'  '.S
.  SIIIA..'SI AJ1SV   D                                                           D/ kqndclr Lampung
AEAOF MAP               I N    'D  N  E 5 I                 I.-                 LAMPUNG              . 
-- t- FR<a,,                        --l '1      Z                                 <                    -.- - ^JAKARTA
INDIAN OCEAN         e      -iU &AL /TIMOR                                                                     _Am-
AUGUST 1996






I






