                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32509

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (CPL-40950 SCL-4095A SCPD-4095S TF-29284)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$98.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                 FOR A

                      SUMATRA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT




                                              June 30, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective November 11, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (IDR)
                                  IDR 1.0 = US$ .0001(at Closing, 2004)
                                  US$ 1.0 = Rupiah 2,331(at Appraisal, 1996)
                                                Rupiah 14,900 (at Loan Amendment, 1998)
                                                Rupiah 7,706 (at MTR, 1999)
                                                Rupiah 9,412 (at Closing, 2004)

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                   April 1 - March 31 (up to the end of year 2001)
                     January 1-December 31 (from year 2001)

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CPCU           -      Central Program Coordination Unit, Jakarta
DGPSE          -      Directorate-General of Primary and Secondary Education, MOEC
DIKDASMEN      -      MONE Secondary and Basic Education Directorate
DIKMENUM       -      MOEC Secondary Education Directorate
ICB            -      International Competitive Bidding
JSS            -      Junior Secondary School
MGMP           -      Subject teachers groups
MOEC           -      Ministry of Education and Culture (prior to 2001)
MOF            -      Ministry of Finance
MONE           -      Ministry of National Education (post 2001)
MORA           -      Ministry of Religious Affairs
MTs            -      Muslim Junior Secondary School (Madrasah Tsanawiyah)
NCB            -      National Competitive Bidding
NEM            -      National Examination
OED            -      Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank
PPIU           -      Provincial Project Implementation Unit
PKG/SPKG       -      Inservice and Onservice Teacher Training Programs
SLTP/SMP       -      General Junior Secondary School
SMP Terbuka    -      Out-of-school junior secondary education program
SOE            -      Statements of Expenditures
SUSENAS        -      National Socioeconomic Survey



                           Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                        Country Director:      Andrew D.Steer, EACIF
                         Sector Manager:       Christopher J. Thomas EASHD
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Susiana Iskandar, EASHD

                                         INDONESIA
                        ID-SUMATRA SECONDARY EDUCATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                             27

Project ID: P041894                                                  Project Name: SUMATRA SECONDARY
                                                                     EDUCATION
Team Leader: Susiana Iskandar                                        TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 16, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: SUMATRA SECONDARY EDUCATION                              L/C/TF Number: CPL-40950; SCL-4095A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-4095S; TF-29284
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (75%); Tertiary education (15%); Central
                            government administration (5%); Sub-national government
                            administration (5%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Gender
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/28/1995                                     Effective: 10/16/1996                10/16/1996
     Appraisal: 06/17/1996                                         MTR: 10/04/1999                  10/04/1999
      Approval: 09/17/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/TBD
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michael Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                            Samuel S. Lieberman
Team Leader at ICR:             Susiana Iskandar                               Donald B. Hamilton
ICR Primary Author:             Robert McGough; Audrey
                                Aarons


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective of the project was to improve the quality and coverage of junior secondary education
in its provinces of Nangroe Aceh Darussalam, West Sumatera, South Sumatera, Jambi, and Lampung,
through the expansion of access to junior secondary education in a cost-effective and equitable way, the
improvement of teaching at junior secondary schools, and the strengthening of the management capacity at
all levels of the education system.

The objective is consistent with Government's goal of nine years of basic education for at least 80 percent
of the age cohort by 2008. The objective is also fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). The project design is focused on the decentralization of project management and the
improvement of quality and access in schools that serve rural, poor communities. The project is focused on
junior secondary education in five provinces in Sumatra: Nangroe Aceh Darussalam (NAD), West
Sumatra, South Sumatra, Jambi, and Lampung. Concurrently, the Bank financed two additional Loans
(4042-IND and 4062-IND) with the same objectives for junior secondary education covering six provinces.
In the latter half of the project implementation period these three projects were supervised and evaluated
jointly. The ICRs for each project therefore share much common text.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's development objective did not change during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the objective, the project was designed to: (a) expand access to junior secondary education in a
cost-effective and equitable way; (b) improve the teaching of junior secondary education; and (c) strengthen
the management capacity at all levels of the education system. It also strengthened project management.
The project components were reasonably related to the planned achievement of the objectives and to the
administrative and financial management capacity of the implementing agency. The original components
adequately reflected lessons learned in prior projects in the country/sector.

Component 1 ­ Expand Access (US$78.5.million). To improve access to junior secondary education, the
project would support: (a) new schools in underserved rural areas, (b) expand the out-of-school
equivalency program, (c) assist communities to construct teacher and student accommodation in rural areas
and provide contract teachers for rural areas, (d) finance scholarships for poor students; and (e) provide
parents with information about how to take advantage of the benefits of junior secondary schooling.

Component 2 ­ Improve Quality (US$35.2.million). To improve the quality of junior secondary
education, the project would: (a) provide in-service and upgrading training programs to teachers to
strengthen teachers' subject-matter knowledge and pedagogical skills, and support measures to bring
qualified teachers to rural areas; (b) provide new teaching rooms, library books, educational equipment and
materials and science teaching aids; (c) support school level initiatives to improve quality; (d) develop tests,
examinations and assessment systems. Interventions were aimed at public and private schools (including
madrasahs) in poor communities to encourage continued private sector participation in the provision of
education and to reduce inequity in the project provinces.

Component 3 ­ Strengthen Education Management (US$5.1million). This component would: (a) train
school principals and other administrators in school management and providing pedagogical support to
teachers; and (b) develop management and data analysis capacity for district and provincial staff to
effectively handle increased responsibilities for education planning and management.



                                                      - 2 -

Component 4 ­ Support Project Management (US$7.3 million). This component was designed to
strengthen the institutional capacities of project management at the province, district and Directorate of
Secondary Education at the national level and would contribute to operational costs of project management.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project was responsive to changing needs during the economic crisis. At the time of the economic
crisis, enrollment and retention targets were modified to meet those changing needs. Government and Bank
priority in 1997/98 was to reduce the impact of the crisis on education for the increasing number of poor
households and communities. Emphasis, in the short term, was placed on maintaining enrollment and
transition rates in basic education, preventing deterioration of quality in primary and junior secondary
schools, and increasing local government efficiency.

Through a Memorandum of the President to the Board dated June 18,1998 a new category was added to the
project in order to allocate funds to the Government's national Scholarship and Grants Program (SGP).
The SGP was set up as one of several social safety net programs to help alleviate the impact of the crisis.
The SGP was supported by a number of bilateral and multilateral donors. The Bank restructured six Loans
to re-allocate funds to support the SGP. This project (Loan 4095-IND) contributed US$35,066,915 to the
SGP, of which US$$22,975,784 was for scholarships to students from poor households and
US$$12,091,131 was for grants to schools in poor communities for basic operating costs. The SGP was
managed separately and Government established an independent monitoring unit to ensure transparency. A
separate completion report was prepared for the SGP.

At Mid Term Review (November 1999) enrollment and retention targets were adjusted and a unified project
description was prepared covering all three junior secondary education Loans. Project components were
more specifically focused on poverty and aimed to: (a) maintain enrollments at 1997 levels and increase
access in poor, rural communities; (b) improve the quality of public and private junior secondary schools
especially in poor, rural communities; and (c) strengthen the management of the education system at all
levels, especially for district and school managers, to retain students in school by implementing pro-poor
strategies.

In addition to the impact of the economic crisis of the 1990s, the decentralization laws of 2001 affected the
project by giving responsibilities for basic service delivery to district governments. This influenced the
Ministry of National Education's (MoNE) decision to introduce school based management systems, and to
define roles and responsibilities for project inputs through a Memorandum of Agreement with each
beneficiary district government. To support this concept, the project financed the provision of
proposal-based grant systems, and management training for school principals and district level education
teams.    Design changes made during implementation are reflected in the amendments to the Loan
Agreement.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
 A Quality of Supervision Assessment (QAG), dated July 1999, assessed project design, readiness for
implementation and borrower commitment. This assessment was conducted in a way that was consistent
with the Bank's required safeguard policies.             All aspects of the project design were rated as
satisfactory at entry. The project design was also rated as satisfactory by the ICR team.




                                                     - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the project's objectives was satisfactory. Adjustments to targets were made, and agreed
upon by the Bank, at the time of the crisis to maintain enrollment rates for junior secondary education at
pre 1997 levels and to contain dropouts at or below present levels. The project objectives are clearly
consistent with current country and sector assistance strategies.

l Nationally enrollments show an increase over 1997 levels and a decrease in dropouts. Enrollments
     in junior secondary enrollments increased by 3 percent from 2,667,022 to 2,815,690 between 1997 and
     2004, and the numbers of junior secondary students completing grade 9 increased by 35 percent from
     1,774,681 to 2,398,200 between 1997 and 2004. (Data source: MoNE 2004. MoNE collects no
     separate data on drop outs, and uses completion data as a proxy. It should be noted also that after
     decentralization MoNE found it more difficult to collect data regularly from districts)

l Trend data using Susenas sources (Education Sector Review 2004) indicate that the share of the
     population having completed junior secondary has been rising overall since 1995, and that the rate of
     increase is higher for rural areas than for urban areas, reducing the gap between rural and urban
     participation in junior secondary education. In 1995 gross enrollment was 66 percent and by 2002, it
     was 80 percent. In the same period the net enrollment increased by 10 percentage points-from 51
     percent to 62.7 percent. Net enrollments in rural areas increased from 42.65 to 54.3 percent, and in
     urban areas from 66.51 to 71.90 percent.

l There was progress in average test scores for mathematics and language across the provinces included
     in this project. The average test score in language were 5.4 in 1997 and 6.97 in 2003; the average
     score in mathematics was 3.89 in 1997 and 4.56 in 2003.

l Findings from project monitoring reports indicate that quality inputs (books, instructional materials,
     teacher and school principal training) are having a positive impact on teaching and learning in project
     schools: School principals are providing a more supportive environment for teaching and learning
     (better resourced schools and increased professional development for teachers), teachers are using more
     varied teaching methods using additional teaching resource materials, and students are being exposed to
     a greater variety of learning experiences such as more independent and group research and more
     interactive learning.

l Implementation annually of agreed work programs in the project provinces averaged above 80
     percent This assessment is based on Bank and Government annual reviews of project work plan
     outputs and budgets spent. The project closed in NAD in 2003 due to civil disturbances and conflict
     in the province.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 ­ Expand Access.

The project supported the construction of 212 (95% of target) new rural schools and added 394 (the
expected target was not available in SAR) new classrooms to existing rural schools. This amounted to the
establishment of 50,880 and 15,760 student places, respectively, for a total of 66,640 student places
established during the project. School monitoring reports have found that, by the completion of the project,
there was a 99% utilization rate of the newly established schools and classrooms (Note: Expected
utilization rate in SAR was 75%).



                                                      - 4 -

The following project approaches were key elements in the success of the project. Recognizing their
potential, the MoNE has successfully integrated them into its policies and procedures for school
establishment and upgrading. These nation-wide policy adoptions provide clear evidence that the project
has substantially influenced sector policy development at the physical, financial, and institutional
development levels.

Complete School Approach. As a framework for all project activities, the project supported the use of a
complete school approach for new school development. This holistic approach featured the use of an
agreed upon set of activities (with assigned responsibilities) that must take place, according to an agreed
upon schedule, before a school could be established and brought on-line as a registered institution. This
innovative approach was a feature of all nine of the funded primary and junior secondary education
projects (six Bank and three ADB projects), and for this reason, as mentioned above, the impact of this
approach has been significant, resulting in its becoming national policy of the MONE.

Block Grant. Initially the project sought to use a centralized method for contracting to support the
implementation of the complete school approach. This method proved to be difficult to implement
effectively. As a result, the project decided to move to a more decentralized approach using the block grant
method of school construction. This approach proved to be much more effective than the centralized
method used previously. In this approach, the construction was managed by school committees and carried
out by local workers. This work was facilitated and supervised by construction management consultants
provided by the project. Provincial/central and district government collaborated to ensure all inputs were in
place by the time the school was opened (buildings and furniture, teachers appointed, students enrolled,
books, supplies, aids and equipment are in place and operational and maintenance costs are provided).
Through a Memorandum of Agreement with MoNE, district governments agreed to provide qualified
school personnel including the school principal and administrative staff, and agreed to provide operational
costs after the first six months.

The project has demonstrated that there are many advantages to the use of this approach: (a) this model
ensured that a full package of inputs would be in place before the school opened and that sustainability of
project inputs was protected; (b) it was found that construction and provision of physical inputs are more
cost effective than the approaches previously utilized by MoNE; (c) many schools benefited from additional
contributions from the community; (d) quality of construction, in most cases, was found to be better than in
the project's earlier contracting period; (e) schools became more attractive, as the community applied its
own aesthetic (use of a wider range of paint colors and design features, and the establishment of attractive
gardens); (f) the model improved efficiency in the delivery of a fully operational school. For example, using
the block grant mechanism, it was likely that a new school would be operational in less than six months
after construction was completed, as compared to a minimum of two years under the previous approaches
used; (g) there was also a strong sense of community ownership of the process and outcome; and (h) local
governments in many cases provided supplementary funding for additional classrooms to accommodate
more students, or to provide roads for easier access to the school location.

Other Outputs. The project also established 335 new teacher housing/students accommodations units
(167.5 % of original target). The project also supported the contracting of 4,026 (135% of target) specialist
subject teachers for underserved schools.

The funding available to the civil works component changed considerably over the project period. The
value of the rupiah to the US dollar at project appraisal was Rp 2,331. By 1998 it was Rp 14,900.
Decisions were made to reallocate the benefits of the large influx of funds from the civil works (building


                                                     - 5 -

new schools) category to reallocate funds for additional scholarships and grants through the SGP; and to
increase the number of additional classrooms at existing schools. About 410,000 poor students were also
provided with scholarships by the project over two or three years period. The number of project provided
scholarships was significantly more than the original target (130,400 scholarships). This enabled the
scholarship program to make a substantially higher than expected impact on school retention of students
from poor families.

In another program that targeted hard-to-reach students, more than 607,200 instructional modules were
provided, and about 1,000 tutors were trained in their use, and 39 motorbikes provided for tutors.

This component met or exceeded its targets, and introduced innovative and more efficient models for
establishing new schools. It is rated as satisfactory.

Component 2 ­ Improve Quality.

In an effort to improve the quality of junior secondary school services, the project: (a) supported the
training of teachers, school principals and education managers; (b) provided instructional materials and
science, supplementary reading and reference books; (c) developed and piloted an integrated science
curriculum; and (d) designed, developed and delivered training programs for school principals, school
committees and district education staff in school based management and planning for school quality
improvement. During the project, (a) 1,502 sets of teaching aids were supplied to teachers; (b) 117 sets of
office equipment were provided to schools; and (c) about 2,400 schools received sets of books, based on an
established ratio of books to enrolled students.

By project completion, all of the target schools received the inputs (books, equipment, and training).
However, due to inaccurate costing estimates, only 74% of the schools received them on time, and the rest
were fulfilled in the following fiscal year. It was reported that 77% of the target schools used those inputs
adequately.   The project used two approaches for teacher training. Through cluster training activity
(MGMP) the project trained 11,508 teachers and 869 key teachers. In this cluster approach, teachers are
brought in to a central location from neighboring schools for training. The mid-term review concluded that
the cluster training approach was not appropriate for this project because the schools established by the
project were scattered in remote-rural areas, and the cluster meetings also included large numbers of
non-project schools. At the mid-term review, it was decided that the project should re-focus teacher training
activities to more directly support teachers in project-targeted schools, and to change the training approach
to subject matter training (PKG-SJ). The teachers were provided with more training days, per teacher, than
originally planned a Total of 6,373 teachers were trained though this approach.

Communication forums for teachers and school principals were also established at school, district and
provincial levels to share experiences. Facilitators were funded to work directly with teachers in the
classroom and with school principals on quality issues, which led to more changes for better teaching and
learning. The project also developed and delivered training programs for schools principals and district
managers in school based management.

The matching grant mechanism for school quality improvement based on school plans became problematic
when Government's development budgets were not released on time. Schools often found that the price of
goods and services had changed between the time of preparing a proposal and eventually receiving the
goods or that the goods were no longer available. It took time for schools to learn how to match the books
and equipment they ordered with actual needs or teachers' ability to make effective use of them. Based on
quality assurance monitoring reports, schools showed steady improvement in use of matching grant funds


                                                     - 6 -

for school quality improvement as they gained more experience with the required planning and procurement
processes. Over three years, total 749 matching grants were awarded to public schools and 190 to private
schools.

Improving the quality of teaching and increasing learning outcomes will continue to be a major challenge
for schools. Within the framework of decentralization, MONE will continue to channel resources to the
neediest schools where learning outcomes are low and continue to support districts in make schools more
effective and capable of achieving national goals for quality graduates.

The component met its targets and was able to introduce a `whole school development' approach to ensure
that quality inputs (books, materials, equipment, teacher and school principal training) had maximum
impact on school performance. This approach was new and was supported by a proposal based grant
mechanism for schools. This component is rated satisfactory.

Component 3 ­ Strengthen Management Capacity.

To strengthen the education management capacity, 8,617 school team members (principals, head of
administration and vice principals) and district officers were trained in school based management using
modules developed by the project. To ensure that the schools established by the project are properly
maintained, 363 school principals were trained in this area. To better meet the emerging need for improved
management of information, selected project school principals and district education managers were trained
in the development and use of management information systems (MIS). In addition, to facilitate
communication among the target schools, the project facilitated the establishment of interschool forums
(FKST) in respective districts.

The project's matching grant program gave opportunities to school principals and school committees to
practice school-based quality improvement planning and management. The project promoted the formation
of school committees. These committees have gained experience in creating school profiles and using
analysis of information to prepare and carry out school development plans. School committees
demonstrated that they could manage relatively large sums of money in a transparent and accountable
manner. This has generated enthusiasm and increased participation by parents and the community in school
affairs.

Through the project's block grant mechanism for new school units, the district governments developed
capacity in planning, supervising, financing and operating the school system. District governments made
decisions on locations of new schools based on enrollment data and catchment area, in planning
supplementary inputs to provide operating funds and teacher placement, and choosing schools to receive
matching grants based on poverty targeting criteria. Before government decentralization, these activities
were the responsibility of the central and provincial governments. Technical assistance and training
provided by the project, assisted districts to undertake these new activities. The above mentioned project
experience provides a sound basis for future school improvement planning by district governments.

The Memorandum of Agreement between central and district governments setting obligations for use of
central development funds for school or district grants provides a sound foundation for school and district
government accountability. The willingness of the central government to apply sanctions to the
participating districts for poor governance and non-compliance with transparency procedures was an
effective lesson in accountability.

About 65% of the schools, receiving project inputs, were able to provide effective professional and physical


                                                     - 7 -

support to student learning as indicated by: (i) the principals hold regular meeting with teachers; (ii)
meeting between school management team and school committee held regularly; and (iii) matching fund
grant funds used appropriately according to school needs. The remaining 35% of the schools in most cases
failed to conduct meetings with school committe and in a few cases failed to identify priority needs to be
funded by the matching grants.

Overall, this component is rated satisfactory.

Component 4. Strengthen project management.

The project provided long term and short term consultant services to assist with project monitoring,
evaluation and quality assurance, construction, procurement and finance. It provided support for project
planning, coordination and monitoring; and for project review meetings three times per year at district,
provincial and national levels. It carried out formative and summative monitoring of project performance.

National and provincial level teams gained experience in developing and implementing quality assurance
programs. Quality assurance teams monitored the rapid and extensive implementation of the block grant
mechanisms for new schools and matching grants for school quality improvement. These teams also
monitored quality inputs and made constant adjustments and improvements in program delivery according
to the monitoring and evaluation findings - such as the change to proposal based funding to consolidate
inputs under school management and changes to more demand driven approaches to teacher training
matched to school needs. Over 90 percent of project annual work plans were implemented and budgets
disbursed. This component is rated satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n/a

4.4 Financial rate of return:
n/a

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Increased Institutional Capacity. In the provinces covered by this project, most of the need for additional
capacity is found in rural, disadvantaged areas where there are many unmet needs, and in urban areas were
there is a trend toward over-enrollment. As this project was focused to serve students in those areas, it is
easily seen that the project produced more institutional capacity to meet these needs. This is evidenced by
the establishment of 66,640 new student places through the project. This increase in student access to
services should improve facility utilization rates and teacher/student/parent satisfaction rates.

Policy Reform (Section 10). The Borrower has also adopted a number of suggested sector policy reforms
including the use of: (a) block grant funding; (b) scholarship programs for poor students; (c) contract
teachers to provide short-term relief of teacher shortages; (d) direct financing of grants and scholarships to
schools and students, respectively; and (e) government-financed, community-led school construction and
school rehabilitation programs. These important reforms signal a decision by the Government to manage
the education sector differently than it has in the past. It is expected that additional policy reforms, brought
forth by the other eight projects, will also add to the overall package of reforms for the sector.

Focus on Quality. The project has also seen the Government officially establish quality as a major goal in
the sector. This has resulted in a significant refinement of basic education curricula and pedagogy. The
subsector now has new curricula (introduced before and during the project, but refined and fully introduced



                                                      - 8 -

during the project period). The result has been positive and well received by the schools, parents, and
teachers. Recent field surveys (project monitoring reports) have also noted that activity-oriented teaching
methodologies, introduced by the project, are well received by teachers and are effective and relevant to
students.   MONE has moved to institutionalize the use of activity-oriented teaching methodologies
nation-wide. Increased availability in rural schools of textbooks, reading and reference material and science
equipment, accompanied by teacher training in the core subjects, had a positive impact on the teaching and
learning processes in these schools. Based on an independent project quality assurance study on impact of
teacher training, the following changes were noted within the project's target schools: (a) there was an
improved school management that provided an environment conducive to learning; (b) teachers and
students used instructional materials more often; (c) the wider range of teaching methods worked more
effectively; and (d) students worked more often on group assignments using library reference material and
science equipment.

To further support the focus on quality, MONE has increased the requirements for teacher and manager
certification. Concurrent to this effort, the project has supported the training 6,373 junior secondary
education teachers in provinces served by the project. With these inputs, there have been substantial
improvements in the internal efficiency of both primary and junior secondary education. These and other
efficiency improvements are documented in Annex 1.

Education Management. With the project supporting training of large numbers of principals and
education officers (see component 3), there has also been a significant improvement in the quality of
managers and key decision-makers in the project's targeted provinces since the baseline year (1998).
MONE has also moved to fill most of its management and other key positions with experienced and well
trained staff. Within the ministry, examples may be seen at all levels in primary and junior secondary
education. The project's impact on institutional development was rated as substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Asia economic crisis had a deeper and longer impact on Indonesia than elsewhere in the region and
there was a dramatic increase in the number of poor households. In response, Government changed its goal
of nine years of basic education for at least 80 percent of the age cohort by 2004 to maintaining
enrollments at pre-1997 levels, retaining students in school and preventing deterioration of school quality.
The revised targets were met and exceeded during the project period.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Decentralization Law (No. 22 of 1999) and the Fiscal Autonomy Law (No. 25 of 1999) strengthened
the role of district governments and weakened that of the provincial governments. This was a national
government project, implemented by provinces. As such there was some tension in the early stages of
decentralization between district and provincial governments about roles and responsibilities, resource
allocations and project monitoring functions. MONE responded by formalizing agreements with district
governments on use of project funds and providing training for district education teams in school based
management systems. The Provincial Education Office, as the deconcentrated arm of MONE, continued to
conduct training and carry out monitoring activities on behalf of MONE. Procedures and funding
mechanisms set up under the project for block grants and matching grants to districts and schools have
been incorporated into national policies and guidelines for use of national development funds supporting
districts' basic education programs. Although the process of decentralization was an important element in
the project design, the Decentralization Law had only a partial effect on the outcomes of the project.




                                                     - 9 -

The national development budget system (DIP) remained a powerful force affecting implementation. In
2001, for example, the budget was released only in October for the financial year beginning in January.
This problem occurred to some degree each year. At the provincial level, it meant that staff did not have the
resources to carry out the intensity of supervision needed or to provide training and workshops at timely
points in the work program. It must be noted that the inadequacies (in the DIP) resulted in a partial
negative effect on the outcomes of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The MONE through its Directorate of Secondary and Basic Education (DIKDASMEN) was an effective
implementing agency. MONE set up a Central Project Coordination Unit within line management at
DIKDASMEN and complemented staffing with long-term national and international technical assistance
supported by the project. The project also supported technical assistance in financial management,
procurement and construction supervision at provincial implementing units. Project implementation cut
across a uniquely difficult time in Indonesia's history. MoNE/DIKDASMEN was responsive to the
changing environment especially at the time of decentralization when the project took a lead role in
developing guidelines for block grant fund flows, procedures for implementing block grant mechanisms and
monitoring implementation of school and districts programs using project funds. These are now part of the
national policy guidelines for district governments' use of central government funds. The ICR review found
that the high quality of the assigned staff and the good management of the CPCU resulted in a substantial
effect on the outcomes of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Estimated total project costs at Appraisal were US$144.0 million. Government contribution was US$46.0
million equivalent and the Loan was US$98.0 million. At project closing US$92,514,732.09 of the Loan
had been disbursed.

At Appraisal the exchange rate was calculated at Rupiah 2,330. By 1997/88, the exchange rate was
Rupiah 14,900 and at project closing it was Rupiah 9,412. The flood of rupiah during the period of the
economic crisis allowed transfers to government's SGP, restructuring of the project and, at the request of
the Ministry of Finance, cancellations of a portion of the Loan. For safety reason, it was decided that NAD,
would not participate in the block grant for new school development by community. The misprocurement
cases were due to inirregularities in the procurement of goods. The major deficiencies were found in the
following areas: Non transparent and restrictive bidding process leading to lack of effective competition,
and misuse of NCB for actual contracts with conflict of interest situation (as of the letters of the Country
Director to the Government, dated December 22, 2000 and October 12, 2001). Loan cancellations are
indicated below.

Project costs (USD equivalent)            Government         Loan                Date
Appraisal                                     46 million     98 million
Cancellations:
      - misprocurement                                          33,263.50December 22, 2000
      - misprocurement                                         194,887.67October 12, 2001
      - Gov's request                                        3,191,848.83May 4, 2004
Total cancellations                                          3,420,000.00October 12, 2001
Undisbursed balance at project closing                       2,065,267.91
Project closing/final disbursement                         92,514,732.09




                                                     - 10 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The prospect for sustainability of project achievements is likely. Government policies and strategies
continue to target underserved communities in rural areas in an effort to close the participation gap between
rural and urban areas in junior secondary education and to achieve national goals for achievement of nine
year basic education for all. Many of the strategies and mechanisms applied under the project continue to
be supported through national policy reform. These include the whole school approach to grants to
underserved communities for new schools; and the proposal-based grants to schools for quality
improvement. Scholarships and grants to schools remain as important government strategies to attract and
retain students from poor households in junior secondary education. After SGP completion (a crisis, social
safety net response) the scope of the scholarships program was retained at pre-1997 levels and targeted to
the most needy. As a result of the government's positive experience with the independent monitoring unit for
the SGP, MONE has established a similar unit to provide independent oversight of implementation of
centrally funded projects in districts (new schools, grants for quality improvement, contract teachers and
training of school communities in school based management).

MONE will need to continue to monitor its investments at district level to ensure that district governments
continue to provide technical and financial support to new schools especially those that were established
late in the project. Recent findings on education financing (Education Sector Review 2004) raises concerns
about whether budgets for schools are sufficient to cover schools' basic operations costs, let alone to
support their efforts to improve quality. Many junior and senior secondary schools now receive 50 percent
or less than their pre-decentralization budgets. District governments need to continue to provide adequate
operational budget allocations to all schools, but especially to new schools that may need additional support
for the first four to five years of operation to cover start up costs as each new class level is added.
Establishing education financing levels appropriate to achieving national goals will need to be addressed at
the highest levels of national government.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
National policies and procedures are in place for recruitment of contract teachers, grants to communities to
establish new schools in underserved rural areas, and grants to schools for quality improvement, and of
course the criteria for targeting scholarships and school grants to students in poor communities. Guidelines
and manuals developed under the project for preparing funding proposals, for community contracting of
school construction, and for school management boards and their training have been updated and are being
used on a national scale for development projects financed from the central budgets. The institutional
capacities (technical and organizational) that the MONE and provincial teams developed under the projects
are being used now through management of central government funded projects. District governments are
responsible for schools that were beneficiaries of project inputs and are being held accountable for project
investments through a Memorandum of Agreement with MoNE that covers the responsibilities of district
government for the next 20 years in regard to beneficiaries of centrally funded activities. MONE has set up
an independent monitoring unit to check progress of district governments' in meeting their obligations to
school funded by the project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank provided adequate technical and financial resources for project preparation and the Borrower's
project preparation was supported by a PHRD grant for technical assistance. The Bank worked with the



                                                     - 11 -

Borrower to build a more participatory approach to project preparation by involving a wide range of
stakeholders especially at provincial level, where implementation was to be managed. Lessons learnt from
previous projects in the sector were incorporated into project design. The Bank Team's participation in
project identification, project preparation and project negotiations leading to Bank approval of the loan is
rated as satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision was rated as satisfactory by a Quality of Supervision Assessment (2001) with a high
rating for development impact. Project teams from the Bank and Government were presented with the Bank
President's Award for Excellence in 1999 for the projects' proactive restructuring to support the SGP.

The Bank teams and the Borrower built a strong partnership and a shared vision. The shifting of task
management to Jakarta made for better understanding of issues and a closer working relationship with
government. The packaging of all three junior secondary educations under a unified project description and
one team management led to more efficient supervision and a closer focus on development goals.
Procurement monitoring and good governance were the most demanding aspects of project supervision.
Remedies were applied to both project provinces for lack of transparency and misprocurement in
construction contracts. Bank participation in project supervision is rated as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The World Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The MOEC/MoNE preparation teams worked in a highly participatory manner with the Bank and with
provinces and districts in project design and preparation for implementation. This work was embedded in
developing programs for implementation of the nine year basic education policy and benefited from the
PHRD grant to carry out a number of national studies regarding policy implementation as well as project
specific studies. Lessons learnt from other Bank supported projects contributed insights to project design
and many staff preparing the project had participated in implementation of other Bank projects in the
sector. The Borrower's participation in project preparation is rated as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The central government had long experience of Bank lending in the sector and was experienced with Bank
lending procedures. The greatest impediment to project implementation was the delay in Government's
development budget release to line agencies which affects all sectors, not only education. The impact of this
on project activities meant delays in training and workshops and late disbursements in any financial year.
The Borrower's participation in the implementation of the project is rated as satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
MoNE through DIKDASMEN was characterized by an excellent management style. Clear job descriptions
and accountability lines for the project coordination unit were established so that staff and counterpart
consultants worked as a team. Regular meetings were held of project staff and senior management in
MoNE/DIKDASMEN to address issues arising from the rapidly changing economic and governance
environment. Problems were addressed creatively: such as, addressing the lack of impact of separate
project inputs by `packaging inputs' for proposal based grants to districts and to schools ­ the new
complete school model and the whole school quality improvement model. These were innovations in
Indonesia, established under the project and now national policy. Procedures for flow of funds for grants
and scholarships directly to schools were innovations in Indonesia and are now used in MoNE's regular


                                                    - 12 -

programs. The overall performance of MoNE as the implementing agency was highly satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. Most physical and financial targets were met and
the overall project development objective was achieved despite the really difficult environment in which the
project was implemented, from the economic and political crises, to decentralization and district autonomy.

8. Lessons Learned

Key lessons learned from the project are:

Design

1.   When school communities manage resources they are likely to be used more efficiently and lead to
     greater long term participation in school development (Section 4.2, Block Grants);
2.   Improving learning outcomes is complex and teacher training on its own will not bring it about
     (Section 4.2);
3.   Within the framework of decentralization, Central Government (MoNE) has a role in targeting
     strategies to address the education needs of the poorest communities if national goals for basic
     education are to be achieved (Section 4.5);
4.   During times of financial crisis, or political change, projects should be designed with a view toward
     maximum flexibility, and the potential for rapid restructuring as the need arises Section 7.1);
5.   There are advantages in cost effectiveness and efficiency when several similar projects are funded
     concurrently, with similar PDOs and KPIs, and managed as a single program rather than as separate
     projects (Section 7.2);
6.   Baseline data should always be collected, documented in the PAD, and agreed upon during project
     preparation (Section 7.1);
7.   The use of contract teachers has proven to be a viable management option to address issues of
     temporary teacher shortage and the need to introduce increased flexibility into the civil service
     (Section 4.5).

Management

1.    The establishment of a strongly staffed, and well managed project implementation unit (PIU) must be
      considered a key contributing factor to the successful implementation of any project (Sections 5.3
      and 7.6);
2.    The matching grant mechanism for school quality improvement based on school plans became
      problematic when Government's development budgets were not released on time. Schools often found
      that the price of goods and services had changed between the time of preparing a proposal and
      eventually receiving the goods or that the goods were no longer available. It took time for schools to
      learn how to match the books and equipment they ordered with actual student needs and the teachers'
      ability to make effective use of them (Section 4.2 and 7.5);
3.    Systematic monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is critical to the success of a project with widely
      dispersed project activities and sites (Section (5.3);
4.    Independent monitoring of programs, especially those targeting poor communities and households,
      ensures that leakage is reduced, and that targeted groups benefit as planned. Government on roles
      and responsibilities for grant fund management were a valuable tool for ensuring accountability for
      sustaining benefits of project inputs (Section 6.0).

Mapping



                                                    - 13 -

1.    For SGP, expansion of access and other poverty-alleviation programs, Geographical targeting of
      services should be done on the basis of poverty. Estimates should be made down to the village level.
      Mapping is an excellent technique to support this process, but there should be a pre-commitment to
      update the "map" each year - thereby overcoming the static nature of most poverty map schemes
      (Section 4.2);
2.    School mapping can be useful to education agencies at all levels. For instance, school mapping may
      be used to provide a better understanding of: (a) inequities in resource allocations between
      geographical areas; (b) physical limitations to school access (i.e. lack of roads, infrastructure,
      services); (c) imbalances in district or provincial education officer assignments for school oversight;
      (d) preferred locations for new school establishment, based on needs; (e) preferred locations for
      school expansion to meet increasing enrollment demand; and (f) geographic, economic, cultural, and
      social dimensions required in monitoring and evaluation schemes, where there is a need to make
      comparisons between schools, districts and provinces (Section 4.2).

Scholarship Grants Program (SGP)

1.    It is clear, during the financial crisis, that the dropout rate has been low in primary school and that
      the transition to junior secondary school is the most important attrition point in the system,
      particularly for the poor. This suggests that the program was most effective in its support of the
      critical transition from primary to junior secondary education. This finding would suggest that: (a)
      there can be some narrowly targeted scholarships for the poorest kids at the primary level, but the
      bulk of the program should be more broadly focused on junior secondary school; (b) if scholarships
      are given to students starting in primary school then some continuity across school levels must be
      assured (e.g. changing the SGP school-level "entitlement" to an individual-level entitlement); (c) the
      pool of candidates for grade 7 scholarships has to be taken from children who complete primary
      school not from those who are already enrolled in grade 7; and (d) as a result of the latter, selection
      of candidates should be done on the basis of an application process (Section 4.2).


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The project made an important contribution to achieving government's nine year basic education goals. The
reallocation of project funds to Government's Scholarships and Grants Program helped support students
and schools in poor communities so that junior secondary enrollments could be maintained and school
quality did not deteriorate. Government decentralization created new political structures and the project
supported MoNE in developing district technical teams, school boards of management and the mechanisms
for block grants directly to schools and districts. These formed the basis of new government policies for
school improvement and for targeting poor and rural remote communities.

Implementation was slow in the early years of the project largely because provincial teams were not
experienced in Bank procurement and financial management procedures and needed considerable technical
support. The project provided schools with an environment that is more conducive to learning ­ better
buildings and furniture, textbooks, library books and reference materials, science equipment, teacher
training and improved school management. But improving the quality of teaching and learning was the
most difficult change to bring about. Districts will continue to need support from provincial and central
agencies to achieve better learning outcomes. Government is working on minimum standards for schools
and these will be used to assess school quality needs. Under decentralization arrangements, it is expected



                                                       - 14 -

that MoNE will continue to provide grants to districts to help them achieve the national access and quality
goals for nine years basic education.

The packaging of the three junior secondary education projects under one umbrella simplified project
management. This helped to focus efforts on government's overall goal for junior secondary education.
Relationships with the Bank improved after all three junior secondary education projects were under one
task management team relocated to the Jakarta office. Previously, with three separate task managers, all
located in Washington, it often seemed that there were three separate voices providing direction and advice
and problems needing attention could not be solved quickly. For a more in depth discussin see Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:

There were no cofinanciers of the project.

Project preparation was financed by Japan through a PHRD Grant for consultant services and training:
(JPN 29284) effective December 20, 1995, closed on June 30, 1997. The original principal was JPY
25,200,000. At closing on November 25, 1997 the disbursed amount was JPY 22,229,578                   with an
undisbursed balance of JPY 2,970,422.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable

10. Additional Information

Section 4.4 - This project is one of nine concurrent projects in basic education that feature similar
principles in their design. The Borrower is in full accord with these principles, and because of this, the
projects, as a whole, have significant leverage to create institutional development impact in the sector.




                                                     - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


           Indicator/Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:                              Target                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Maintaining national junior secondary Enrollment : 2,667,022 pupils in 1997 Enrollment: 2,815,690 pupils
enrollment at pre-crisis (1997) and       Graduated: 1,774,681 pupils in 1997   Graduated: 2,398,200 pupils in 03/04
containing drop-outs.                     (National levels)                     (National levels)


Utilization of at least 75% percent of    66,640 seats                          65,696 pupils (99 %)
new schools (USB) and classrooms          (Total capacity of 212 USB and 394
capacity created by the project, by       new classrooms)
province, public and private schools.
                                          Lampung: 16,400 seats                 Lampung: 19,476 pupils (119%)
Notes: Data is as of June 2004. The       Sumsel: 14,240 seats                  Sumsel: 16,622 pupils (117%)
available data of the number of           Jambi: 6,720 seats                    Jambi: 4,755 pupils (71%)
students in 69 BG-USB is for the first    Sumbat: 9,640 seats                   Sumbat: 7,452 pupils (77%)
and second grades only; the schools       Nangroe Aceh Darussalam: 16,040       NAD: 15,132 pupils (94%)
operated starting on July 03,             seats                                 North Sumatera: 2,259 pupils (63%)
especially in North Sumatera, there is    North Sumatera: 3,600 seats
only 15 BG-USB built on 2003.


Maintaining junior secondary              Enrollment : 998,527 pupils in        Enrollment : 1,210,579 pupils in
enrollment at pre-crisis in the project   1996/1997                             2001/2002 (excluding North
provinces.                                (excluding North Sumatera)            Sumatera)


Maintaining enrolment and drop out        NA                                    NA
rates at pre-crisis levels in poor, rural
and remote schools receiving matching
grants.
Increase in schools' average NEM          B.Ind = 5.4 and maths = 3.89 in 96/97 B.Ind = 6.97 and maths = 4.56 in
scores in project provinces (excluding                                          02/03
North Sumatera)
Implementation of at least 80 percent     80 %                                  86 %
of the agreed work programs annually      Access = 75 %                         Access = 99 %
as measured by the physical targets of    Quality = 75 %                        Quality = 72 %
acceptable quality.                       Edu.Mgmt = 70 %                       Edu.Mgmt = 76 %
                                          Project Mgmt = 95 %                   Project Mgmt = 95 %



Outcome / Impact indicators in
PSR
                                                Projected in last PSR*             Actual/Latest Estimate**
100% Inputs arrive complete and on                       100%                                  74%
time to target schools.
70% TS provide effective professional                     60%                                  65%
and physical support to pupil learning
70% TS Provide Effective Professional                     70%                                  76 %
& Physical Support to Pupil Learning
(Aggregate by Loan)



                                                        - 16 -

60% New Target School (NTS)
teachers receiving project inputs show               60%                             65 %
improved classroom behaviors (started
in 2003) (Aggregate by Loan)
80%.NTS use project inputs                           80%                             82 %
(Aggregate by Loan)
Implementation of 95% Agreed Work                    95%                             95 %
Program as Measured by Physical
Target & Budget Spent(Aggregate by
Loan)


Output Indicators:
           Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate


Number of new schools built,                         197                               212
equipped, staffed and operating
Increase in gross enrollment rates    APK in 1996/1997 of the project  APK in 02/03 of the project provinces
(APK) in project provinces.           provinces                        Lampung = 79.97
                                      Lampung = 68.80                  South Sumatera = 72.20 in 01/02
                                      South Sumatera = 62.70           Jambi = 75.81
                                      Jambi = 53.44                    West Sumatera = 84.02
                                      West Sumatera = 78.08            NAD = 70
                                      NAD = 69                         North Sumatera = 83.70
                                      North Sumatera = NA
100% TS have textbooks at ratio 1                   100%                              66%
text/student for 8 subjects
100% of contract teachers in TS meet                 NA                                NA
terms of contract
60% TS show increase in use of                       60%                              80%
teaching aids (TA) and library books
(B)
80% New TS (NTS) books purchased                     80%                              84%
through project are borrowed
70% of sampled TS principals hold                    70%                              89%
regular meetings to discuss school
affairs
70% TS hold regular FKST meetings                    70%                              76%
95% of school proposals allocate funds               95%                              95%
to improve quality as well as for
physical improvement)




                                                   - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

   Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                    Appraisal    Actual/Lates    Percentage of
                                                     Estimate     t Estimate      Appraisal
                     Component                     US$ million   US$ million

Increasing Access to Junior Secondary Education           78.5          120.19           153
Improving Quality                                         35.2           28.92            82
Strengthening Education Management                         5.1            1.34            26
Support for Project Management                             7.3            9.59           131


Total Baseline Cost                                      126.1
Price Contingencies                                       17.9
Total Project Costs                                      144.0          160.04           111
Total Financing Required
                                                          98.0          92.51             94



   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                               Procurement           1/
                                                             Method
      Expenditure Category             ICB         NCB              2/      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                              Other
1. Civil Works                          -          52.0        6.0           -            58.0
                                                  (39.0)      (4.5)                      (43.5)
2. Equipment and educational            6.0        5.5        10.2           -            21.7
    materials                          (5.5)      (4.1)       (8.2)                      (17.8)
3. Furniture                            -          4.4         1.2           -            5.6
                                                  (3.4)       (0.8)                      (4.2)
4. Motorcycles                          -           -          -            0.3           0.3
                                                                          (0.0)          (0.0)
5. Training                             -           -         26.7           -            26.7
                                                             (13.4)                      (13.4)
6. Scholarships                         -           -         12.6           -            12.6
                                                              (6.3)                      (6.3)
7. Contract teachers                    -           -          4.6           -            4.6
                                                              (3.7)                      (3.7)
8. Consultant's services and            -           -          5.6            -           5.6
   studies                                                    (5.4)                      (5.4)
9. Operating Costs                      -           -          3.7           -            3.7
                                                              (3.7)                      (3.7)
10. Recurrent Costs                     -           -          -            5.2           5.2
                                                                          (0.0)          (0.0)
Total                                   6.0        61.9       70.6          5.5          144.0
                                       (5.5)      (46.5)     (46.0)        (0.0)         (98.0)




                                                 - 18 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/ Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                   Procurement               1/
                                                                     Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB                                                   3/
                                                                            2/      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                      NCB             Other

1. Civil Works                          -             10.71            5.69            -            16.40
2. Goods                                             (8.57)           (2.19)                      (10.76)

3.  Training
    a. Local                            -             1.04             4.97            -            6.01
                                                     (0.83)           (2.60)                       (3.43)
    b. Overseas                         -               -             10.30            -           10.30
                                                                      (8.24)                       (8.24)
                      4/
4.  Operating Costs                     -               -              6.75            -            6.75
                                                                      (6.75)                       (6.75)
5.  Scholarships                        -               -             45.37            -           45.37
                                                                     (23.56)                      (23.56)
6.  Contract teachers                   -               -              5.10            -            5.10
                                                                      (4.51)                       (4.51)
7.  Consultants' services and
   studies
    a. Contracted by Project            -               -              1.77            -            1.77
      Provinces                                                       (1.77)                       (1.77)
    b. Others                           -               -              1.03            -            1.03
                                                                      (1.0)                         (1.0)
8.  Grants under Part E (1) of          -               -             24.43            -           24.43
   the Project                                                       (12.09)                      (12.09)
9.  Block Grants under Part E           -               -             14.32            -           14.32
   (2) of the Project                                                 (12.1)                       (12.1)
10. Matching Grants under Part          -               -              8.30            -            8.30
   E (3) of the Project                                               (8.30)                       (8.30)
11. Gov.' support for the project       -               -                -           20.26         20.26
   implementation                                                                     (0)           (0)
    Total                               -            11.75           128.03          20.26        160.04
                                                      (9.40)         (83.11)        (0.00)        (92.51)

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank Loan.
2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
   staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
   related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) monitoring and evaluation.
3/ Excludes the land acquisition and certificates financed by the participating districts; as well the matching
   grants financed by the participating schools.
4/ Includes GOI funded as an integrated program for providing scholarships and school grants.




                                                      - 19 -

 Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)



       Component          Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal

                         Bank     Govt    CoF.    Bank     Govt.    CoF. Bank     Govt.   CoF.
                                    .
Increasing Access to      57.0    28.0       -    61.46    58.73     -    108      210      -
Junior Secondary
Education
Improving Quality         26.5    15.0      -     20.82    8.10     -      79       54     -
Strengthening Education   3.8     2.0       -     0.88     0.46     -      23       23     -
Management
Support for Project       8.5      0        -     9.35     0.24     -     110    unlimit   -
Management                                                                          ed

                          95.8    45.0      -       -       -       -      -        -      -
Total Cost

Unallocated               2.2     1.0       -       -       -       -      -        -      -

                          98.0    46.0       -    92.51    67.53     -     94      147      -
Total Project Cost




                                                - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No independent study of project costs and benefits was carried out.




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              5/30/1995                 5    Mission Leader (1); Project           S               S
                                             Implementation Specialist (1);
                                             Consultant /Educator (1);
                                             Consultant /Economist (1);
                                             Consultant /Statistics & GIS (1)
              10/16/1995                5    Mission Leader (1); Project           S               S
                                             Implementation Specialist (1);
                                             Consultant /Economist (1);
                                             Consultant /Educator (2)
              1/17/1996                 2    Mission Leader (1); Consultant        S               S
                                             /Educator

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              4/03/1996                 4    Mission Leader (1); Educator          S               S
                                             (1); Fin. Mgt.Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)

 Supervision

              04/09/1997                2    Mission Leader (1); Educator (1)      S               S
              09/19/1997                2    Task Manager (1); Operations          S               S
                                             Officer (1)
              08/07/1998                3    Task Team Leader (1); Educator        S               S
                                             (2)
              02/18/1999                2    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Consultant (1)
              11/04/1999                2    Operations Officer (1); Team          S               S
                                             Leader (1)
              10/13/2000                6    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement Officer (1); FM
                                             Specialist (1); Construction
                                             Consultant (2)
              04/11/2002               10    EDUC.Specialist/Conslt (1);           S               S
                                             SR.EDUC.Specialist (1);
                                             TTL/Mission Leader (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Financial MGT. Spec. (1);
                                             Construction/Conslt (2);
                                             Education/Conslt (1); TTL -
                                             Loans 4042, 4062 (1); Sr.
                                             Disbursement Offic (1)
               04/11/S2002              7    TTL, Education Spec. (1);             S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1); FM
                                             Specialist (1); Construction
                                             Specialist (3); Education



                                              - 22 -

                                               Specialist (1)
               Several                     6   Task Team Leader (1); FMS (1);      S    S
               intermittent joint              Construc/Community Spec (1)
               missions within                 Education Spec. Consult (1);
               2003 for                        Construction Conslt (1);
               implementation                  Education Specialist (1)
               support
               05/07/2004                  7   TTL, Education Special (1);         S    S
                                               Procurement Specialist (1); FM
                                               Specialist (1); Construction
                                               Specialist (3); Education
                                               Specialist (1)

 ICR
               08/31/2004                 4     Task Team Leader (1); SR.          S    S
                                                Education Specialist (2) as
                                                primary authors; Consultant
                                                (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     0.00                          383,232
  Supervision                              62.60                          328.676
  ICR                                       1.20
  Total                                    63.80                          711,908




                                                - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Central Independent Monitoring Unit (2004), "An Evaluation of the Scholarships and Grants
Program and the School Improvement Grants Program", Independent Monitoring of the School
Improvement Grants Program and Scholarships and Grants Program, Jakarta.

Department of Institutional Integrity (Final Report 4 April 2004), Final Report: (School
Improvement Grants Program( INT Case Number: INS-089-SGP-01), the World Bank,
Washington D.C. Restricted distribution

Ridao-Cano, C and D.Filmer (2004), "Evaluating the Performance of SGP and SGIP. A Review
of the Existing Literature and Beyond", Human Development Sector Unit East Asia and the
Pacific Region Working Paper Series No. 20043, The World Bank, Washington D.C.

Sparrow,R (2004), "Protecting Education for the Poor in Times of Crisis: An Evaluation of a
Scholarship Program in Indonesia", Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam and Tinbergen Institute,
Amsterdam.

World Bank (1998), Education in Indonesia: From Crisis to Recovery, Report No. 1639-IND,
Education Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, the World Bank, Washington D.C.

World Bank (2004), Education in Indonesia: Managing the Transition to Decentralization,
Indonesia Sector Review, the World Bank, Washington D.C.


Project documents on file in Bank office, Jakarta.

Borrowers Completion Reports for (a) Loan 4042, (b) Loan 4062, (c) Loan 4095
Project Monitoring and Evaluation and Audit Reports
Aide Memoire and documents prepared for Mid Term Review
Loan Agreements and Loan Amendments
Project Status Reports




                                               - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report


                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)

                            SUMATERA LOAN 4095-IND




                                       BY
                 JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION (JSE) PROJECT
                 CENTRAL PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT (CPCU)




                            REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                       MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
       DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
               DIRECTORATE OF JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION
                                   January 2004




                                      - 27 -

1. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design, and of Quality at Entry

The project was designed to assist MONE achieve a greater number of junior secondary school (JSE)
leavers of better quality by (a) expanding access to JSE, (b) improving the quality of teaching, and (c)
strengthening education management capacity at all levels. Access was to be increased by (i) building more
schools in less accessible locations, (ii) providing learning modules, and some training to open learning JSE
schools (SLTP-Terbuka), (iii) providing other rooms and buildings to selected needy schools, (iv) providing
scholarships to poor JSE pupils. Improve quality was by (i) providing training to large numbers of teachers
using established training mechanisms, and (ii) providing books, teaching aids and libraries to selected
needy schools. Strengthening education management was by providing management training to (i) school
heads, (ii) to other school staffs, and to (iii) various education officials.

The performance indicators for NEM score targets were set too high in some respects. The fluctuation
demand of JSE schools was apparently caused by both the unpredictable economic crisis and Government's
(GOI)'s new decentralization policy. For strengthening project management, at the first 3 years of project
implementation, the performance indicator "percentage of budget spent and targets met annually" focused
on funds disbursed rather than being an indication of strengthened management within PPIU and Dinas
offices.

This was the first project in the education sector designed to be implemented at provincial level with the
centre of providing coordination. Thus MONE was placed in a new situation where it had to learn how to
operate in a different setting from previously implemented project.

World Bank project designers focused on the use of consultants to implement the activities who work
closely with and under coordination of routine officials. The policy is intended to establish a strategy to
strengthen the existing sections since the project has many components within an individual development
objective. This was noted in the SAR as a potential risk to the project success. Therefore the term of
references provided, along with launch seminars, was followed by varieties of guidelines as references for
conducting such a new and large activity.

The project was divided into 2 phases due to major changes in activities after the mid term review resulting
from the effects of economic crisis. The first phase ran between 1997/8-1999/2000 and the second phases
spanned FY 2000-04.

2. Achievement of Objective and Output

2.1. Outcome/achievement of Objective.

Increase Access ­ In total, 212 new schools (known as USB) were built. Enrolment in school year
2003/2004 was 110.5% of capacity (39,840 seats). The project constructed 335 teacher housing and pupil
dormitories for poor schools and provided furniture. The loan also constructed 394 other additional
classrooms under this component by the end of phase 2.


The loan set the target of setting up 138 new Open SLTP (SLTP Terbuka). Some 607,200 modules were
distributed. More than 1,000 SLTPT tutors also received training/orientation in all 5 provinces, the highest
numbers being in Nangroe Aceh Darussalam (NAD) province. A number of 39 motor bikes were also
purchased for SLTPT tutors in five provinces. About 73% of the targeted 32,600 scholarship to poor JSE



                                                       - 28 -

pupils were met. A loan amendment enabled this budget line to be substantially increased with the
objective of providing a larger number of scholarships because of the scale of need during financial crisis.
This part of loan was placed under its own project manager early FY 1998/99. About 1,700 temporary
contract teachers were hired in core academic subjects and placed in rural schools where teacher retention
was difficult. This program ran until the end of school year 2002/03. Final assessment in May, 2004
showed that the loan achieved Satisfactory on the expanding access performance indicators, which related
solely to the expansion of JSE places.

Improving quality - The targeted of 10% of JSE teachers in 6 core academic subjects attending the
PKG-C residential teacher training was attained with total participants numbered were 4,573. After Mid
Term Review (MTR), quality inputs and activities were redesigned into the target school (ST) program.
Training inputs for these schools included ToT and PKG-SJ teacher training, CAR for some STs,
Facilitators to provide on service support for the PKGSJ training program, and PKGSJ program teachers
to support 4 core subjects. A detail training manual and set of videos of best classroom practices were
developed and provided to each province to enable replication on the training in PKGSJ sessions at
provincial level. A total of about 1,800 teachers were reached from about 405 STs through this program.

Approximately 11,508 teachers attended MGMP over the 4 years of implementation. LKGI training was
provided to about 869 key teachers at provincial levels to enable these meetings. The Classroom Action
Research program was introduced into MGMP to revitalize it in 1998/1999 as a pilot. In 2004, the CAR
program also offered on a competitive basis to a limited number of target schools. Teachers had to prepare
a proposal and refine it during CAR workshops. Almost 25% of total ST ware involved. Total number of
CAR clusters was 200, comprising both ST and non-ST clusters. In total about 4,684 teachers were
involved. Other trainings provided under the loan included: training for 1,330 laboratory workers and 850
school librarians.

Library, reference books, and encyclopaedias were procured and distributed to 2,400 selected schools. The
ratio of library books and reference books to pupils was 1: 5. One set of encyclopaedia was provided for
each school. Supplementary textbooks were also procured and distributed to schools. Each pupil had
access to textbooks for the core subjects (Bahasa Indonesia, Math, Physics, Biology, English, Geography,
History, and Economic), and the ratio pupil and book was 1 : 1. Roughly 1,502 sets of teaching aids were
procured and distributed to selected schools. Project procured and distributed about 117 sets of office
equipment to selected schools in 4 provinces. NAD province was excluded.

The grant program was to encourage implementation of MONE's school-based management. In FY 2000,
401 target schools, both public and private received matching grants. In FY 2001, 243 public target
schools and 105 public non-target schools received grants. Meanwhile, matching grants were distributed to
156 private target schools and 34 private non-target schools. Thus, totally 399 target schools and 139
non-target schools received the grants. In FY 2002, only the MG program was implemented and all
receiving schools had to provide contribution. Actually, the provision of all grants was to improve the
quality of school as well as school physical improvement. Non-target schools were also invited to submit
proposals too this year, based on the needs of the school. As most schools tended to neglect quality needs,
quality inputs through the grant were made compulsory through a positive list comprising: reference and
reading books, purchase or teacher-production of teaching aids/materials, temporary teachers, school
equipment such as typewriters, filing cabinets, stencil machines, safety boxes, and, only for non target
school, demand driven teacher training through the school cluster system. Attention to school sanitation
was also included in the MG guidelines for this year. In the loan, 399 ST and 139 NST were reached.

Following the MTR of late 1999, the target school (ST) program was implemented in FY 2001 to focus


                                                    - 29 -

inputs and activities in a number of highly deserving poor, rural and remote schools which were considered
to have the potential and willingness to improve in quality. The total number of ST in the loan was 405.
Program for these schools varied over time.

Facilitator: One person visited 2 STs twice per month. In general, all facilitators fulfilled the tasks of their
terms of reference completely and well. Only a few facilitators tended to focus on one task rather than on
both of them.

Study D3 to S1 teacher program. The reform D3 to S1 programme was not managed nationally therefore
the existing program varied both in type and name; its curriculum was not independent, mostly it related to
or as part of the S1 curriculum. From the program implementation such as lecturers and students point of
view, it was considered satisfactory, however, the D3 holder teachers who joined the reform programme
still need some additional subjects especially Bahasa Indonesia, Mathematics, Biology and Physics for
SLTP level.

When assessed for the proposed project extension in 2002, this development objective did not achieve "
satisfactory" status. However, realignment of the ToT and PKGSJ training activities mentioned above
enabled Satisfactory status to be reached at the end of the project final assessment in mid 2004.

Strengthen Educational Management ­ A total of 4,396 heads were supported to attend school head's
working groups (MKKS). In addition, the loan procured tailor-made materials provided for about 8,617
school heads with general management training to strengthen implementation of MONE's school based
management policy.


The project also responded to the need to assist school heads with maintenance of their schools and
provided Preventative Maintenance Training to 363 school heads during Phase 2. These were a mixture of
project constructed schools (USB) and target schools. The Target School Forum for Communication
(FKST= Forum Komunikasi Sekolah Target) was launched in FY 2002-2003, the project formed a
communication forum to encourage the implementation of SBM. The meetings were held at provincial,
district, and school levels. Provincial and district meetings were run by PPIU, used to share information
and a common perspective on the ST program. Participants at these meetings included a representative
from school committee.

Selected education official and administration staffs, including school administration staffs, were also
trained in MIS. Other education officials at Kanwil and Kandep level, including school supervisors, were
provided with general management training based on project developed modules. Project requested
Education Offices at district level to appoint a district technical team (TTK) to be responsible for
maintaining, coordinating, and monitoring programs as part of a sustainability strategy.

Each assessment (of 3) of this development objective achieved Satisfactory status.




                                                     - 30 -

Strengthen Project Implementation - CPCU and PPIU revised the organization structure several times to
accommodate     changes.        CPCU       hired   consultants    for  loan    monitoring   and     evaluation,
construction/procurement, quality assurance and finance who provided technical assistance, in
collaboration with the project team, in implementing project programs. The Project conducted coordination
meetings at local, regional, national levels at the beginning, middle, and at the end of each fiscal year to
develop project plans, discuss the project implementation, and evaluate the implementation results. The
project also conducted formative and comprehensive monitoring program to satisfy the Project
Implementation and Performance Indicators.


Again this development objective achieved "satisfactory" status for all 3 assessments.

2. 2. Implementation Issues and Recommendations

Increase Access:
New Schools (USB). To overcome a range of problems, the concept of a new and complete school (USB),
with full site works, infrastructure, all required school staff and teaching learning materials /resources was
introduced. Both the time required for construction and the lead time between completion and its use by
pupil was to be reduced to approximately 6-7 months. During the project extension, contracted
construction firms were replaced by community participation in USB development, thought to be more
quality conscience and cost and time efficient. This brought its own problems. Management construction
consultants were hired to assist USB teams but monitoring revealed the low performance of some of them,
a lack of understandable guidelines, insufficient and inadequate technical and administrative support to
school teams ­ some them receiving limited supervision of the level and kind normally given to specialized
construction contractors. Other construction of other rooms was focused on classroom first, but written
intentions sometimes differed from realization with funds being diverted to repair or construct teacher
rooms. Recommendation included publicising and implementing a set of sanctions for miss-use of funds by
schools or others.

SLTP Terbuka. The program needs continuing and expanding if MONE EFA targets are to be met. The
complete equivalency of SLTPT certificates needs to widely publicize so that SLTPT graduates are not
overlooked during their job search efforts which would indirectly penalize the efforts they have made to
continue with their education while assisting to maintain the family's livelihood.

Scholarships. One complaint about the programme was its emphasis on scholarships to children already in
school. Only limited attempts were made to get those children who initially could not afford to remain in
JSE or to transfer from primary school into JSE back into school. There remains a great need to continue
this program in many areas, some within the capital and other areas, some of which are not too far from it.
Second, means testing for needy children and searching out those who can not afford to transfer into JSE
needs to be more rigorous.

Contract teachers. MONE has taken up the practice of supplying contract teachers in large numbers. In
some schools, the basis for placement in a school based on the total number of permanent teachers in the
school regardless of their subject specialization rather than on identifying which subject requires a teacher.
Their placement in school needs monitoring to ensure that they are definitely needed.




                                                     - 31 -

Improved Quality
MGMP. A well established national system of in-service support for teachers by their colleagues needs
maintaining, strengthening and invigorating with the lead teachers receiving refresher courses in new
teaching methodologies. Inputs should include: how to train professional adults in more formal sessions
and during classroom visits, and how to support teacher development of generic teaching skills.

PKG-C or PKGSJ. The PKGSJ program of 2002-03 in particular, focused on a limited number of target
classroom behaviours.      The revised training strategy raised achievement on the project performance
indicator to satisfactory in August 2003, after teachers had only 12-15 months to try out the new behaviour
in their classrooms. MONE needs to institutionalise the above methodology, and use it to show teachers
how to handle and teach the forthcoming competence based curriculum; Dinas could identify areas which
require improvement, based on teacher' needs and the results of M&E through classroom observation, and
then devise and offer in-service teacher training programs.

CAR. After initial interest, teachers presentations of CAR results showed their limitations in identifying
worthwhile problem to research without having first seen/experienced alternative teaching methods and
seen how others handle lessons and classes. Moreover, teachers exaggerated their results. The research
aspect needs deemphasizing and more stress lain on the fact that this technique is actually normal practice
for professional teachers, and they do not need financial support to be creative in solving classroom
problems. CAR in ST, i.e. outside of MGMP cluster is not viable.

ToT/LKI. ToT programs run to provide PKG-C/ PKGSJ with qualified, resourced instructors. It used
CPCU-developed training videos of good classroom practice, simultaneous peer teaching and observation/
feedback/ personal experience of non-frontal teaching methods to encourage adoption of target behaviours
by instructors who than transferred the training received to teachers in their province. CPCU evaluation
showed the take up and natural extension of this training approach. Other projects could follow in the
footsteps of the JSE project which adopted the idea of producing and using videos of best practice for their
training focusing on contextual teaching learning.

Teaching rooms. There was misinterpretation about the concept of multi-purpose rooms were only used for
meeting/ceremonial purposes.        To avoid misinterpretation of multi-purpose room, the concept of
multi-purpose room should be socialized and clarified to the schools.

Procurement of library and reference books. Books were selected from MONE approved lists which
sometimes conflicted with titles suggested by the provinces themselves. Province selected the titles based
on need analysis of sample school. Instructors/Key Teachers and subject matter supervisors verified the
list of titles based on the sample of books. Introducing the concept of back-pack library for clusters of
schools to pool their reading books and share then on a monthly rotating basis was a good idea.

Procurement of teaching aids. Teaching aids were selected based on the needy schools. The school
purchased them less than 3 sets. About 65% of target schools displayed teaching aids in classrooms or in
the teacher's room. Enable schools to designate specialized subject rooms where, for example, geography
maps etc are stored and the subject is taught, rather like science labs. Maps can then be stored on the walls
to enliven them, this use of them sparking pupil interest in the subject.

School office equipment. Schools need to have adequate operating and maintenance funds so that machines
do not deteriorate and fall into disuse, and a plan for regular maintenance of equipment.

School BG/MG grants. Since guidelines (for project extension weighted selection of MG proposals by


                                                     - 32 -

PPIUs towards quality inputs) revised, a majority of schools used the funds for improving quality aspects
of the schools. Those also involved community participation to increase transparency and ownership of
schools. The matching grant (MG) system (requiring a school contribution) has the potential to increase
school and community ownership of purchased goods/equipment. Implementation of a MG system with
community participation requires schools to have both the capability and the will to seriously implement the
program, along with the existence of sufficient technical aid in the field. Clear rules from the donor are
vital, in the form of clear, simple and easy to follow guidelines, including a positive list of permissible
inputs and activities.

Study D3 to S1 Teacher Program.           This study recommended in two main areas: curriculum and
management. The proposed curriculum consists of main and optional subject for specialization­subject
materials and teaching specialization-completed with subject description. The total proposed SKS is 40
SKS divided into 50% as main subject course related to universities or educational institutions. The
curriculum is an open curriculum, meaning that optional subject is designed based on the conditions
(related universities or educational institutions conditions).         For management aspect, the study
recommended that the D3 programme reform need to be socialized by the authorized parties and sufficient
supporting material for the success of the program.

Facilitator for target schools. This program was newly introduced during the project extension; therefore
several issues were come up. Several facilitators only partially implemented their TORs. Insufficient
socialization to heads meant that they were uncertain of facilitator's role and so less welcoming.

Strengthen Educational Management
Management training for school heads and education officials. PPIU had already conducted their own
management training before the CPCU specially developed package became available. Materials need to
be applicable to the real situation, and not to the idealized situation thought to exist.        Preventative
maintenance training. This training is meant to links with project programmes of BG-USB and MG grant.
Since not too applicable, it was received as knowledge by school heads. However, during this training,
school heads should produce a school equipment maintenance plan with realistic costing and on return to
their school allocate funds from their operating budget for it. Monitoring is vital to ensure that plans are
implemented. Target school forum for communication (FKST). This also was only devised for the project
extension. However, this forum becomes an effective vehicle for school heads and school committees to
discuss school issues. FKST meetings at school level were held on a need basis only.

Strengthen Project Management
Central Program Coordination Unit (CPCU). No specialist M & E unit was established. Activities such as
timely support to PPIUs and monitoring suffered because of this. More available personnel should have
been made, either seconded from routine staff, or more consultants hired. The development of
implementation indicators, based on the project performance indicators, was not undertaken until late in
2001, towards the end of the project. However, once available, these indicators enabled CPCU to more
closely control and supervise provincial implementation of project activities.

Provincial Project Implementation Unit (PPIU). The project provinces underestimated the complexity
involved in undertaking the project and especially the need for (i) rigorous procurement planning and
clearance based on World Bank guidelines, (ii) rigorous preparation before implementation, and (iii) tight
control and monitoring of all activities and inputs. Loan activities were combined with routine Dinas
programs without extra staffing and project personnel were thus over stretched.                Some project
appointments were inappropriate and did not support sound implementation of project programs.
Consultant's effectiveness was sometimes reduced as salaried were reduced to pay for assistants.


                                                   - 33 -

3. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

3.1. Factor outside the control of government or implementing agency
During project implementation, the East Asian financial struck Indonesia and had substantial impact on all
services provided by the GOI. The looming financial crisis became increasingly pronounced in FY 1998/9.
A loan amendment enabled this budget line to be substantially increased with the objective of providing a
larger number of scholarships to JSE pupils.

3.2. Factors generally subject to government control
In 2002, GOI adopted the decentralized system for education, among things. The year 2002 was also the
beginning of district autonomy implementation. The change had a significant effect upon district and
community empowerment programs. In line with MONE's newly introduced (FY 2000) policy of school
based management where the community is encouraged to play a larger role in schooling.

3. 3. Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
The project was very complex for PPIUs to handle. There were many components within an individual
development objective. New project performance indicators and their associated implementation indicators
were developed focusing on aspects such as transparency, accountability, quality, school needs and their
use of inputs. A major programme improvement made was the introduction of the concept of the new
school development (known as USB), in 1999/00.

3. 4. Cost and financing
A loan of US$ 104 million was signed in August 1996 and implementation began in 1996-97 in the 5
provinces of Sumatera of West and South Sumatera, Jambi, Lampung and NAD. The loan was to close in
September 2002. A first extension was agreed until December 2003 and a second extension to the end of
June 2004.

Financial Status - Cumulative expenditures which were based on revised amount fund allocated in loan at
August 29 2002 totalled US$ 98,000,000 as May 16, 2004. Cumulative loan disbursement as of May 16
2004 was US$ 94,605,456 (including Special Assistance, SA) but US$ 89,801,144 (excluding SA).

4. Sustainability

USB. The concept of new school (or USB) has been used by MONE since 2001 as part of its national
school construction policy and so this project concept has become institutionalized, financed and sustained
by the Education Ministry. This is despite the fact that some district education offices have difficulties in
providing the minimum number of teachers of the required quality for USB. The concept of BG-USB is
also being used by the NAD education office as the mechanism for constructing some senior high schools.

Scholarships and school operating grants (DBO) offered through the project are now provided through
various projects supported financially by MONE, which acknowledges that the economic crisis continues to
effect a significant number of children in many areas.

The block grant (BG) system has been implemented by the Directorate of PLP for its JSE and SSE
classroom construction programme. Block grants are considered easier to manage than matching grants
because schools can avoid the difficulties of providing their own budget. Districts are expected to adopt the
grant system to improve school quality too.




                                                   - 34 -

PKG-SJ and CAR programme evaluations of mid 2004 found that 65% and 66% of teachers and students
respectively, exhibited the target classroom behaviours. The new classroom behaviours of teachers were
less sustainable in the schools (i) whose teachers were mismatched in terms of education/ training
background (ii) in private schools with a limited number of teachers which forced teachers to handle more
than the one subject they were trained to teach. Some districts followed up the classroom action research
(CAR) programme by providing block grants for the purpose.

Block grants for improving education quality were adopted by the Directorate of PLP in FY 2004 for their
School Subsidy Program. Such grants can be used for a variety of activities only two of which will directly
influence classroom quality, i.e. teacher training, books, and teaching aids procurement.

Target schools (about 60%) are attempting to sustain a variety of project inputs such as the continued
implementation of new teacher behaviours in the classroom, holding school level FKST meetings, and
inviting Facilitators into school to assist them. Facilitator program in target schools could not be adopted or
followed up by districts due to costs although some schools invite instructors/ supervisors to provide
inputs, covering incidental costs from school committee funds.

Contract Teachers. Since 2003, MONE has recruited some 200,000 contract teachers using central
funding for all provinces in Indonesia. Other need for temporary teachers is being met through local CT
recruitment by a great number of district education offices. One emerging problem however, was how
teacher replacement was conducted by districts. At the end of the project, temporary teachers from project
USB winning a renewed contract from either central or local MONE were sometimes allocated to other
schools away from the USB. Due to the less accurate distribution system, some isolated USB are without
required teachers.
Even though TTK performance in some districts were not optimal, it was adopted and followed up by the
Directorate PLP in 2004.

5. Bank and Borrower Performance

5. 1. Bank
Lending. Changing in lending approach as a result of responding to the situations occurred in economics
and social politics in Indonesia. In 1997, the unpredictable economic crisis happened that resulted some
project budget was allocated for scholarships and block grants program. In 2002, the Government's (GOI)
implemented new decentralization policy and school-based management that caused the new JSE schools
and block/matching grants were implemented at district, even at school level, with the province and centre
only providing coordination. In addition to that, project completion is also adaptable. In order to achieve
proper completion of each project programs, project completion was amended two times.

Supervision. A closer work relationship between the Project, at central and provincial levels, and the
World Bank occurred in the last three years. Project activities were planned together, the implementation
progresses were always discussed, and monitoring activities were conducted collaboratively. During the
first 4 years of project implementation, one Task manager per loan created stresses implementation because
there were 3 voices rather than one. Project implementation indicators, based on the performance
indicators, need to be written in the SAR/PAD so that targets are available from the start to aid planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of performance and achievements.

Overall Bank Performance. Overall performance by the World Bank was reasonable at the project's life.




                                                      - 35 -

5.2. Borrower
Preparation. There was a clear understanding of the problems based on a thorough analysis of lessons
learned from the implementation of previous project, and the project was seen as a major mechanism to
facilitate the changes and plans in Junior Secondary Education. The borrower approached the preparation
of the project in an exemplary manner, assigning experienced and highly motivated staff to the preparation
team.

Government implementation performance. Overall implementation performance by the Government was
satisfactory across the all levels at which the bureaucracy of Ministry of Education and the project
operated.

The CPCU regularly provided technical assistance to ensure PPIU implemented all programs, monitoring
overall loan expenditures, monitoring procurement activities, and collecting data for monitoring and
evaluation.    Overall implementation by CPCU was satisfactory. The PPIUs were responsible for
implementing all programs based on the guidelines, ensuring that the budget used properly, and providing
data and reports. Overall implementation by PPIU was satisfactory.

Implementing agency. Overall implementation by the Government and the project was satisfactory.

Overall borrower performance. Overall borrower performance was satisfactory.            With regard to in the
grant and empowerment school as well as community was very satisfactory.

6.       Lessons Learned

Increase access
·        Scholarships maintain student enrollment. More valid and accurate data are needed however, to
ensure that moneys reach those pupils with a real need. Scholarships should also have been given to grade 6
primary pupils so that they could transfer directly into JSE. This link was missing. Thus, only those pupils
already registered in JSE benefited. Those who could not afford to transfer in the first place were not
captured by the system as it was designed.
·        The concept of a complete and ready to use new school (USB) certainly reduced the time lag
between end of construction of the school and pupils entering it to study. It also strongly encouraged the
community to participate in education i.e. some parties (teachers, village leaders) learnt some fundamental
principles of school-based management, such as transparency, participation, accountability, and autonomy
from being in the programme.
·        The siting of new JSE schools needs to take into consideration local knowledge and conditions so
that mistaken siting of schools is minimised. Once a site is agreed up on, local government together with its
community, must then be responsible for creating a quality school ­ ie with good teaching learning
environment and facilities, at least as recomended by SPM.
·        SLTP Terbuka is an alternative JSE system where children can learn after working to sustain their
families. It needs to be continuously improved to match the needs of the pupils. This system of schooling is
fundamentally important for children who live in poor, remote, and rural (PRR) areas.

Improve quality
·        Teachers need to see and know for themselves that alternative teaching models work before they
can be expected to change their classroom behaviour. Through the PKG-SJ program, teachers were
provided with models of best practice which they could then copy and try out in their own classrooms.
·        Contract teachers was a solution of the problem of teacher shortages in poor, remote and rural



                                                     - 36 -

areas. The agreement between the DGPSE and district governments should be arranged to ensure that
teachers are correctly placed and not moved from the school until the required number of PNS teachers is
reached.
·        Programmes to improve the quality of schools should focus on comprehensive, whole school
approach.

Strengthen education management
·        Head teachers have capabilities in designing and proposing school programmes to build an
effective school. School heads are more likely to be open and transparent in managing school affairs. These
situations should be supported by wide and comprehensive socialization and orientation programmes.
·        Community participation was considered important to support the head teacher develop a better
school environment.

Strengthen project management
·        Measurement of project management achievement which relies solely on the percentage of project
activities finished only encourages budget-driven implementation.
·        Well planned monitoring, coordinating, and assisting of project implementation should be
considered as a factor which influences project achievement.




                                                    - 37 -

- 38 -

