Document cpf
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3702-COB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
November 16, 1982
Western African Projects Department
Transportation Division II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usekl by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            -   CFAF 340
CFAF 1 million    -   US$2,941
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                         British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                -   3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)           -   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)  -   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
I metric ton (m ton)       -   2,204 pounds (lb)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
ATC      Trans-Congolese Agency for Communications (Agence Trans-
Congolaise des Communications)
BCEOM    French Consultants (Bureau Central d'Etudes pour l'Equipement
d'Outre-Mer)
CAR      Central African Republic
CEBTP    Research and Development Center for Construction and Public
Works (Centre Experimental de Recherches et d'Etudes du Batiment
et des Travaux Publics)
CFCO     Congolese Railroad (Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean)
CNAR     National Center for the Administration of Road Transport (Centre
National de l'Administration Routiere)
DCM      Central Directorate of Equipment (Direction Centrale du
Materiel)
DER      Central Directorate of Road Maintenance (Direction de
1'Entretien Routier)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GNP      Gross National Product
LNETP    National Laboratory for Public Works (Laboratoire National
d'Etudes des Travaux Publics)
MTAC     Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation (Ministere des
Transports et de l'Aviation Civile)
MTPC     Ministry of Public Works, Construction, Urban Affairs and
Housing (Ministere des Travaux Publics, de la Construction, de
l'Urbanism et de l'Habitat)
RNTP     National Administration of Public Works (Regie Nationale des
Transports et des Travaux Publics)
VNPTF    Administration for Waterways and Forts (Voies Navigables, Ports
et Transports Fluviaux)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of ContenLs
Page No.
I. INTRODUCTION ................................................. 1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .     .     ....................................... 2
A.  Introduction .      .       ........................................... 2
B.  The ATC System .     .     ......................................... 2
C.  Highways ................................................. 4
D.  Aviation .     .      ............................................... 4
E.  Transport Planning and Coordination ...................... 5
F.  Bank Group Assistance to the Sector ...................... 6
III.  THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR ....................................... 7
A.  The Road Network          .       .......................... 7
B.  Traffic Characteristics and Growth ....................... 8
C.  The Road Transport Industry .............................. 8
D.    Road   Administration   ............................................ .  9
E. Planning . .............. .                                  9
F. Financing                       ..... 11
G. Accounting                       ..... 12
H.  Engineering and Construction . . .......................... 12
I. Maintenance                      . ....  13
J. Staffing and Training                  . . ...* 14
IV.  PROJECT .........................................              14
A.  Objectives .........................................        14
B.  Description .........................................     15
C.    Cost  Estimates        ......................................... 19
D.  Financing and Disbursements   .. o ...... 22
E.  Implementation and Reporting  ........................ 25
F. Procurement          .. ...................... 26
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........................        . .          27
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....................... 30
This report was prepared by R. Herman Snel (Engineer) and Frida Johansen
and Iona Sebastian (Economists) on the basis of an appraisal mission in
April 1981. Harald Hansen (Economist) also participated in the
preparation of the report.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES:
1. Supporting Tables:
T-1 Railway, Port and River Traffic, 1970-78
T-2 Traffic Levels on Classified Highway Network, 1969-77
T-3 Vehicle Registration Data, 1975-79
T-4 Consumption of Petroleum Products, 1973-79
T-5 Highway Expenditures, 1977-82
T-6 Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program in
Pilot Regions, 1984-86
T-7 Composition of Work Units
T-8 Equipment Requirement
T-9 Marketed Production in the Pool and
Cuvette Regions, 1973-79
T-10 Farmgate Prices of Selected Cash Crops, 1973-81
T-11 Vehicle Operating Cost per km
T-12 Economic Rate of Return for the Pool and
Cuvette Regions, 1983-91
2. Schedule of Project Implementation
3. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHART
Organization of RNTP
MAP



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The proposed project would be the eighth lending operation for
the transport sector in the Congo. It would be the fourth lending opera-
tion in the highway sub-sector and the firsi: such operation since 1971.
During the last five years, the Bank Group lending for the transport
sector has focussed on the realignment of the Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean
(CFCO) and rehabilitation of the Agence Transcongolaise des Communica-
tions (ATC) to improve the management capacLty and operational efficiency
of its rail and river operations which constitute the backbone of Congo's
transport system.
1.02     With the recent lending operations the most urgent requirements
for the main rail and river transport flows are being dealt with. The
lower density flows are, however, being inadequately served by poorly
maintained roads, most of which are not passable the year round. In line
with its policy of giving high priority to rural development and the
integration of the different regions, the Government has decided to give
high priority to improve highway maintenance, to pave the main existing
roads and to rehabilitate other parts of the existing network as well as
to expand the rural network to improve acce,s to agricultural areas as a
pre-condition for achieving the following high priority Government objec-
tives: (a) to increase agricultural output, (b) to integrate the various
regions of the country, (c) to balance the public investments in the
north and the south, and (d) to reduce the nigration to the urban cen-
ters.
1.03     The proposed highway maintenance project, focussing on the two
regions of Pool and Cuvette (one in the south and one in the north),
would support the Government's reorientation of priorities towards the
road sub-sector. Such a project was originally appraised in 1976 but was
deleted from the lending program because of the country's inability to
meet local costs. Shortage of local funds dad also been the main reason
for implementation problems with a previous (1971) Highway Maintenance
Project. The Government has subsequently taken steps to improve the
availability of funds for highway maintenance by reestablishing the Road
Fund and has confirmed the importance it attaches to highway maintenance.
The proposed project, which was prepared with a $125,000 advance under
the Project Preparation Facility, would basically provide a 3.5 year
slice of a road rehabilitation and maintenance program for unpaved roads
in two pilot regions and technical assistanze for training of workshop
and road maintenance personnel, for highway planning and for the develop-
ment of the local construction industry. The total financing for the
proposed project would require US$19.9 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$13.6 million of which US$12.7 million would be financed
by the proposed loan.



- 2-
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
2.01     The transport system of the Congo serves both the country's own
transport needs as well as an important transit function for the Central
African Republic, Gabon, southern Cameroon forestry production and to a
limited extent, Chad. The system comprises a relatively well developed
port, rail and river transport system operated by Agence Transcongolaise
des Communications (ATC) and is complemented by a limited coverage air
transport system and a limited and poorly maintained road network.
Transport planning has been weak but is being strengthened (paras. 2.09
and 2.10).
2.02     The economic growth of the Congo, as reflected in the per capita
GNP, was modest prior to 1972, but accelerated with the increase of oil
production since that year. By 1980, the per capita GNP had reached
US$900. Because of inadequate regional economic and social integration,
this increased income is not well distributed. Given a rich natural
resources endownment and an already very high literacy rate, the coun-
try's development potential is promising, although there are numerous
constraints in the short- and medium-term. One of these constraints is
the limited and poorly maintained road network. Improvement to and se-
lective expansion of this network is a pre-condition for achieving
several of the Government's high priority objectives (para 1.02). Econo-
mic and social development, assisted by petroleum revenues, will gradu-
ally change the composition of the present transport demand with a faster
growth in road transport as a complement to, and partly feeding into, the
existing river and rail systems and as a way of opening up or integrating
isolated rural areas.
B. The ATC System
2.03     The backbone of Congo's transport system is the Transequatorial
Route, which consists of the ocean port of Point Noire, the river port at
Brazzaville, the CFCO railway (510 km) linking these two ports, and the
navigable sections of the Congo and Oubangui Rivers (about 1,120 km).
The state-owned ATC operates this system as well as river ports and river
transport services on the Sangha and N'Goko rivers and feeder river rou-
tes in the Cuvette Region, together accounting for about 5,000 km of
waterways.  The operations of ATC are divided into three operating units:
(a) the Atlantic Ocean port of Pointe Noire (PPN); (b) the CFCO railway;
and (c) the river ports, river transport and maintenance of navigable
channels (VNPTF). The other major links in the primary network are a
285 km railway owned and operated by COMILOG (Gabon) for the transport of
manganese ore to the CFCO railway at Mont Belo; the Loubomo-Gabon road
(about 250 km); and the Sangha river, which is navigable over about
690 km and is served by the ATC and the Agence Centrafricaine des
Communications Fluviales (ACCF), the CAR-owned river transport company.
ATC provides a regional transport system, providing services to CAR,



- 3 -
Cameroon, Gabon and, to a limited extent, southern Chad. In recent years
more than three-quarters of the rail freight carried between Brazzaville
and Pointe Noire has been transit traffic, mainly manganese from Gabon,
timber from Cameroon and the CAR, and upstream imports to the CAR. For
most of this traffic the Transequatorial Route is the only access to the
sea and will remain so for many years: the Transgabonese railway, now
under construction, is the main and most advanced alternative route but
will only cater to Gabonese traffic when Lt is completed, probably in the
late 1980s. A substantially more expensive, but faster, route to the sea
via Cameroon is used for high value CAR commodities; a route via Kinshasa
and railway connection to the Zairian port: of Matadi has been used occa-
sionally to carry petroleum to the CAR but at much higher transport costs
than the ATC. In addition to keeping its international role, the route
will receive increasing demand from domesc:ic traffic. This increase will
in part come from traffic being fed into the system from the existing
highway network and planned extensions thereto.
2.04     The CFCO line is presently operating close to capacity, which is
severly limited by an 80 km mountainous section. Construction of a re-
aligned section is underway with World Bank Group and co-donor financ-
ing. It is expected to be completed in 1984 and should remove the major
capacity constraint on the CFCO. The project also includes provisions
for improving CFCO's operating efficiency and financial performance.
Substantial improvements have in fact been made in 1980 and in 1981 and
the performance targets in the Action Plan are being met.
2.05     River transport, although a part of the ATC, is managed inde-
pendently by the Administration for Waterways and Ports (VNPTF). The
VNPTF's management is plagued by general overstaffing, unwillingness to
accept responsibility and lack of discipline. Operations have also suf-
fered from a shortage of timber barges and operations are not systemati-
cally organized. Under the ongoing River Transport Project, consultants
will make recommendations to improve the organization and dispatching.
ATC river operations consist essentially of moving general cargo and fuel
upstream and sawn timber and logs downstream. General cargo, sawn
timber, high quality logs and sinkers (noa-floatable logs) are
transported by barge while logs are floated downstream in rafts guided by
micro-pushers. Timber barges and other equipment and civil/mechanical
equipment provided under the River Transport Project will enable ATC to
handle existing and projected medium-term cargo river transport
requirements. ATC also handles virtually all passenger traffic on the
Sangha and Oubangui Rivers. Passengers are accommodated either in
ordinary self-propelled or mixed cargo/pa3senger barges. At present,
convoys are not specialized but consist of a mixture of passenger and
cargo barges. The result is relatively poor passenger service and undue
delays in cargo movements arising from frequent stops to discharge
passengers. Procurement of a passenger pash boat under the River
Transport Project should resolve this problem on the Mossaka-Brazzaville
line. This project also includes technical assistance for tariff and
cost studies and other project related items as well as technical
assistance to the Congolese Timber Marketing Organization (OCB),



- 4-
including measures to reduce delays in log evacuation by rail at
Brazzaville and for strengthening transport planning (para. 2.09).
C. Highways
2.06     The Congo has a highway network of about 11,000 km, of which
only about 3,000 km (including 600 km of paved roads) are designated to
provide all-weather service. This is a low density road system of about
32 m/km2 since the traditional transport links have been the river and
rail. The classified road system (8,300 km) is administered and main-
tained by the National Administration of Public Works (RNTP) in the
Ministry of Public Works, Construction, Urban Affairs and Housing
(MTPC). The most important roads are those from Brazzaville north
towards Ouesso (about 850 km, of which only about 235 km are paved and
the rest gravelled or earth and not passable in the rainy season) and
west to Kinkala (about 85 km, paved). The rest of the system consists of
secondary and forestry roads, mainly located in the area between
Brazzaville and Pointe Noire. Only a small proportion of traffic is
carried by road, and about 70% of this is timber traffic in the south.
Except for a road carrying timber from Gabon to the CFCO Railway at
Loubomo, the only roads carrying substantial traffic are those serving
the cities of Brazzaville and Pointe Noire. About 75% of the network
carries less than 10,000 tons of freight/year. More details on the
highway sub-sector are given in Chapter III.
D. Aviation
2.07     Domestic aviation plays a very limited but key role.  The coun-
try has 20 airstrips, including the international airports at Brazzaville
and Pointe Noire. The Brazzaville airport is being upgraded to accommo-
date the wide-bodied Boeing 747 which will be introduced shortly by the
international carriers. The national carrier, LinaCongo, has a fleet of
five aircraft, of which one is an 80-passenger jet and the rest are
smaller turbo-prop and propeller aircraft. The airline has a twice-daily
service between Brazzaville and Pointe Noire and a service of one to
three flights weekly to some twelve cities. The company's finances are
in bad shape due to poor financial management and Government past reluc-
tance to increase tariffs. Most flights on the Brazzaville-Pointe Noire
route are full, with load factors approaching 100%. Recently, a tech-
nical cooperation agreement was signed between LinaCongo and the French
international airline UTA to improve management and technical operations;
the Government also intends to increase tariffs by about 100% to bring
them in line with costs on the Brazzaville-Pointe Noire route. A private
company provides charter services with a small fleet including one jet
and several five to nine passenger propeller aircrafts, and its services
are in high demand despite a significant price differential over Lina
Congo's. Given the long distances between the country's extreme geo-
graphic points and the sparse population over most of its territory,
development of communications between such points should be evaluated by
comparing alternative modes in terms of resource requirements versus



expected benefits and quality of service of each mode. The transport
planning technical assistance component under the River Transport Project
(para. 2.09) should gradually enable Congo to deal with this question.
E. Transport Planning and Coordination
2.08     Responsibility for preparation anc. implementation of transport
policy, coordination and investments is divided among three ministries.
The Ministry of Planning has overall resporLsibility for national economic
planning and the preparation of economic de!velopment plans. The Ministry
of Transport and Civil Aviation (MTAC) is theoretically responsible for
preparation and enforcement of transport pclicies and the elaboration of
the transport part (excluding highway infrastructure) of national devel-
opment plans; it also has direct control oi all transport companies
including the ATC, the domestic airline LinaCongo, and others. Responsi-
bility for elaboration of plans and execution of road projects and main-
tenance of the road network is vested in the Ministry of Public Works,
Construction, Urban Affairs and Housing (M"PC). The Ministry of
Transport, which was created in 1978 following a Government reorgani-
zation, has not been able to take an active role in sector coordination
and planning due to lack of qualified staff. This situation has not been
critical so far since little transport coordination has been needed in
the face of the ATC system's predominance, the small highway network and
almost total lack of funds for road maintenance and construction. With
the expected substantial increases in Gove^nment revenues, along with the
Government's intention to embark on major highway investments (para.
3.11), there is a pressing need for improv:ing overall transport planning.
2.09     A major step in this direction waS; the Government's decision in
1981 to establish a Directorate for Transport Planning and Coordination
at the MTAC. The Terms of Reference for this Directorate were agreed
with the Bank at the negotiations for the liver Transport Project which
includes 108 m/m of technical assistance to help in the establishment and
initial operation of the Directorate. The technical assistance started
in mid 1982.
2.10     The National Five-Year Development Plan (1982-86) was approved
by the National Assembly in late 1981. Regional studies by foreign
consultants provided important inputs to tie Plan. It gives very high
priority to improving and extending the transport infrastructure and
equipment, with particular attention to the highway network for intra-
and inter-regional transport and aviation to complement the existing ATC
rail/river transport system. The plan envisages total investments for
the transport sector of about CFAF 319 billion (US$940 million),
including CFAF 190 billion (US$560 million) for the road sector. The
transport sector investments represent about 30% of the proposed total
investments by government and public enterprises. As several of the
transport section investments envisaged in the ambitious Plan are still
to be studied in detail, reductions may take place during the Plan
period.



- 6-
2.11     It is expected that the work of the new Planning Directorate in
the MTAC and the technical assistance under the River Transport Project
will be useful in the execution of ongoing and proposed studies of par-
ticular projects and in the detailed planning and the annual budgeting
for the transport sub-sector under MTAC during the Plan Period. It
should also provide a sound basis for the preparation of the subsequent
plan.
2.12     As indicated in para. 2.08, the MTAC (and the new directorate)
are responsible for overall transport coordination and consistency of
transport investments, transport demand projection and evaluation of
transport capacities with particular emhasis on rail and river transport
by ATC, road transport, maritime transport, air transport and transport
related activities. They are not directly concerned with highway infra-
structure investments, including the Government's plans to upgrade and
expand substantially the highway network (para.3.11). Responsibility for
elaboration of highway plans and execution of road projects and mainte-
nance of the road network is vested in MTPC under the overall planning
guidance of the Ministry of Planning and subject to decisions at the
political level. Highway planning is discussed further in Chapter III
below.
F. Bank Group Assistance to the Sector
2.13     The Bank Group has contributed to improvements in the sector
through seven loans and credits: First Railway Project (Credit 297-COB,
US$6.3 million, 1972); Second Railway Project (Loan 1228-COB, US$38.0
million, 1976); Second Railway Supplementary Credit (Credit No. 1047-COB,
US$30.0 million, 1980); Road Engineering Project (Credit S6-COB,
US$630,000, 1969); Highway Improvement Project (Credit 189-COB, US$1.5
million, 1970); Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 274-COB, US$4.0
million, 1971) and the River Transport Project (Credit 1179-COB, US$17.0
million, 1982) totaling US$97.4 million. In addition, the Bank approved
a US$5.0 million EEC Special Action Credit to ATC in 1980 for technical
assistance and spare parts, and considerable co-financing was mobilized
for the railway project which cost about US$350 million. Audit reports
have been done for the First Railway Project and the two highway pro-
jects. According to the audits, the Highway Maintenance Project suffered
from major implementation problems, mainly because of the Government's
inability to provide local funds and in the First Railway Project, pur-
chase of wagons was found to be premature due to shortfalls in forecast
traffic. The Government's performance in providing local funds for the
Second Railway Project has been better and is expected to be fully satis-
factory in the River Project and in the proposed Highway Maintenance
Project in light of the substantial improvement in Government revenues.
Appropriate measures are included in the proposed project to assure the
availability of human and financial resources needed.
2.14     Following the approval of the River Transport Project, the
Bank's lending strategy for the sector is to assist the Government in
improving road maintenance through training, institution building and



- 7 -
provision of required equipment. The proFosed Highway Maintenance Pro-
ject would support the increasing priority the Government accords the
road sub-sector and provide a pilot demonstration of proper road
maintenance, thus assuring the infrastructure needed to promote
agricultural production. The project also includes technical assistance
in highway planning to complement the trarsport planning assistance
provided to MTAC under the River Transport Project.
III. THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR
A. The Road Network
3.01     The economically most important part of the Congolese road sys-
tem feeds north-south into the railway and east-west into the rivers.
The total road network is about 11,000 km, of which some 8,000 km are
classified according to their administrative significance as national,
regional or local roads. Except for some 550 km of paved and 700 km of
laterite or gravel roads, the network consists of earth roads and tracks.
Road Network (1.981)
Paved    Grz.vel   Earth   Track    Total
-------------Length in km--------------
Classified Roads
National                  481      308     1,057       --    1,906
Regional                   --       12     2,480   1,201    3,693
Local                      77      334     1,835      425    2,671
558     714      5,372   1,626    8,270
Unclassified Roads
Estimated                  --       --        --   2,500    2,500
Total Network             558      71.4    5,372   4,126   10,770
…-----------…% of total----------------
5       7         50      38       100
Source: RNTP.
3.02     Inasmuch as funds for road maintenance were restricted in the
past, most of the roads have deteriorated to the point where they are now
cut off for long periods during the rainy season and need extensive reha-
bilitation. However, since 1978 the Government has provided some funds
for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the feeder roads system in
conjunction with the forestry and agricultural development programs.
Major problems are bridges and ferries at crossings which are in need of
repairs. There are 40 ferry crossings throughout the country.



- 8 -
B. Traffic Characteristics and Growth
3.03     In a 1976 update of an earlier study, the French consultants,
Bureau Central d'Etudes pour l'Equipement d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM), estimated
that only 1,700 km of the network carried more than 10,000 tons annually,
(Annex 1, Table 2), or five to ten vpd. Current traffic data is avail-
able from ferry crossings along the Sangha, Congo and Niari Rivers and
according to the counts, traffic flows have not changed.
3.04     Traffic counting and flow analysis fall under the responsibility
of the MTAC. Some data on the vehicle fleet is available from vehicle
registration data (Annex 1, Table 3), but the size of the overall fleet
is uncertain as vehicles taken out of circulation are not reported.
Registration data for the last decade indicate that the vehicle fleet has
remained constant at about 16,000 vehicles of which more than 50% are
private passenger cars and some 30% trucks. Fuel consumption was on the
rise between 1973-76. By 1977, reflecting the economic slump in the
country, it dropped close to 1973 levels (Annex 1, Table 4). These
trends confirm the general belief that newly registered vehicles are used
to replace old vehicles that were removed from circulation.
C. The Road Transport Industry
3.05     Freight in the Congo moves primarily by rail between Brazzaville
and Pointe Nore and by river between the north and Brazzaville. Still,
agricultural produce is collected from the hinterland, and some manu-
factured goods are delivered to the villages by road. The Government-
managed offices for the marketing of agricultural products, specialized
by type of crop, operate 5-8 ton trucks and small 2-3 ton pick-up trucks
in each region to collect the cash crops and deliver seeds, fertilizer
and plants to the villages. The number of vehicles operating in each
region varies with the anticipated crop tonnages. Uniform farmgate
prices are practiced throughout the country, and transport costs borne by
the marketing agencies are averaged over the network. Due to poor road
conditions the vehicles are operated about 10,000 km per year and are
estimated to last only two to three years. There is free entry into the
market for private truck operators who are engaged in transporting pro-
duce from small farms and carrying passengers from the hinterlands to
Pointe Noire and Brazzaville. Timber transport by road involves a limi-
ted number of specialized logging trucks and is shared by timber exploi-
tation concessionaires and private transporters. The RNTP also rents
equipment and vehicles for the transport of construction materials, and
revenues are used to cover operating expenses for road maintenance
(para. 3.14). Outside Brazzaville and Pointe Noire, there are no road
transporters. There are no official freight tariffs, and traders trans-
port their own goods. The official passenger tariff is uniformly CFAF
22/km, but rarely enforced.
3.06     The Government intends to establish joint ventures with the
private transport firms and encourage movements of passengers and goods
between the regional centers and away from the capital and Pointe Noire.A



- 9 -
new unit, designated as the Center for the Administration of Road
Transport (CNAR) will be created in the MTAC. This unit will be in
charge of promotion and enforcement of road safety through driver train-
ing programs, vehicle inspection, making recommendations for safety regu-
lations and collecting data concerning shipment availability. It is also
expected to study and define an axle load limit to be enforced in the
country. The implementation of the programs aimed at the reorganization
of the industry depends in the first instance on the Government's ability
to mobilize the resources to rehabilitate and maintain the country's road
infrastructure.
D. Road Administration
3.07     The RNTP is an autonomous agency in the MTPC and is charged with
administration, maintenance and improvement of the road network. Road
maintenance is carried out under the direction of the Central Directorate
of Road Maintenance (DER) by nine Regional Directorates, some of which,
are divided further into sub-divisions (Organization Chart). The
Directorate of Civil Works has carried out some construction and improve-
ment works by force account. Its present capacity is limited to an
annual turnover of about US$1 million.
3.08     In anticipation of its work program envisaged under the 1982-86
Development Plan, and in view of the Government's goal to achieve eco-
nomic autonomy in each region in the country, the RNTP is now considering
a further decentralization of operations among the nine Regional
Directorates and a gradual expansion of the Directorate of Civil Works
(para. 3.21).
3.09     All management personnel of RNTP are Congolese, assisted by a
four-man french technical assistance team. The higher functions in the
Central Directorates are filled by qualified personnel but there is an
insufficient number of qualified medium-levrel personnel. The project's
training program will address this deficiency (paras. 4.12-4.16).
E. Planning
3.10     Highway planning is initiated by :he MTPC under the general
directives of the Ministry of Planning in consultation with the MTAC. A
major input in the planning process is also provided through political
channels. The Directorate of Studies and 'lanning of the MTPC formulates
technical proposals and provides corresponding cost estimates. The
Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation pirovides the current and future
transport needs of the various regions as an input to the planning
process. The proposals for investment in infrastructure, based on the
input data received from the MTAC, MTPC, t'1e regions and other
ministries, are integrated by the Ministry of Planning.
3.11     The 1982-1986 Development Plan, aDproved in late 1981, allocates
some CFAF 190 billion for roads, about 18% of the plan total for



- 10 -
Government and state enterprise investments. This reflects the high
priority given to this sector. The road component of the plan comprises
the following broad categories:
(a)   paving of existing primary roads         CFAF 111 billion
(b)   road improvements                           "   20    "
(c)   briges and other structure                 "   13    "
(d)   road maintenance                           "   10    "
(e)   new roads                                  "    5    "
(f)   training and studies                             1
(g)   administration, buildings and              "   30
related equipment
CFAF 190 billion
3.12     The three main road sections scheduled for construction/paving
by contract under the 1982-1986 Plan are (i) Etsouali-Obouya (256 km);
Owando-Makoua-Ouesso (310 km) and Ngo-Lekana (167 km).  The first two
sections cover the main remaining parts of the north-south road from
Brazzaville to Ouesso while the third covers a main east-west road across
the Plateau region. Contracts have already been signed for these works.
The Government's decision for paving these roads, rather than providing
them with a gravel surface, is based on the fact that most roads traverse
regions with unstable (sandy) soils, lacking gravel or laterite depo-
sits. To protect the costly gravel, which has to be hauled in over long
distances, and because of the excessive cost of maintaining gravel roads,
the Government favors paved alternatives for these roads.
3.13     The Government's basic rationale for the construction of the
above mentioned three main road sections and the increased priority being
given to highways is to provide or improve access to agricultural areas
to increase agricultural output, to integrate the various regions of the
country, to balance the public investments in the north and the south and
to reduce the migration to the urban centers. They therefore involve not
only economic factors but also social and political considerations.
Emphasis is placed on upgrading existing roads and construction of new
roads which would open new areas and thus complement the existing net-
work, particularly the ATC rail/river system. While the Government's
increased priority for highways is clearly justified, there may, however,
be some question as to whether the overall plan and the timing and rela-
tive priorities of individual projects and their design standards are
appropriate from an economic and technical point of view. Although fun-
damental changes in the road component of the 1982-1986 Development Plan
cannot be expected, the Government has indicated its intentions to review
detailed standards of particular projects in connection with the annual
budgeting and project preparation and implementation process. It has



- 11 -
also decided that no new projects will be undertaken until the studies
(designs) have been completed. The project; includes provision for 20
man-months of technical assistance to help strengthen RNTP's planning
capabilities (para. 2.14).
F. Financing
3.14     RNTP activities are financed through the public investment bud-
get, the current budget, a special fund replenished with revenues from
taxes on gasoline and logs, and the earnings from transport and other
services and goods provided to public or private enterprises. Invest-
ments in road construction have been very low given the scarcity of re-
sources. However, in 1980 they increased sufficiently to start a 16
billion CFAF contract for the paving of the Etsouali-Obouya section
(256 km) of the Brazzaville-Ouesso road, and in 1981, contracts were
awarded for the Owando-Ouesso section (310 km) and for the Ngo-Lekana
road (167 km) (para. 3.12). Operating expenses have been of the order of
CFAF 1.5 billion a year, which were mainly used for paying salaries and
left little for materials and other inputs,, In the past the Road Fund
was generally short of liquidity, as it had to be replenished mainly by
the revenues on gasoline taxes collected by Hydro Congo, the Public
Enterprise in charge of fuel distribution. Instead, they were used to
pay Government debts, thus leaving little ior the Fund. In fact, it were
the earnings from the provision of transport services and crushed stone
and equipment rental that enabled RNTP to gain some liquidity.
3.15     With the upsurge in oil revenues, the Government could pay its
debt to Hydro Congo, thus increasing the Road Funds liquidity. In order
to increase RNTP's flexibility, in 1980 the Road Fund, which was admi-
nistered by the General Treasury and required the Minister of Planning's
signature for disbursements, was converted into a Special Fund in the
Commercial Bank of the Congo. The Special Fund is replenished directly
by Hydro Congo and through the log tax revenues, its disbursements re-
quire the signatures of the RNTP director and principal accountant only.
The customs office checks periodically the correlation of volume of im-
ports with Hydro Congo transfers to the account; in 1980 the lag was
considerable: actual transfers were CFAF 205 million compared to an esti-
mate of CFAF 781 million by customs. Togel:her with a CFAF 1.0 billion
contribution from the general budget and C1FAF 560 million from earnings
from transport services, crushed stone and equipment rental, the total
amount available for recurrent expenditures in 1980 was CFAF 1.765
billion, as against actual expenditures of CFAF 1.622 billion (Annex 1,
Table 5). Revenues through the Special Fund should improve after the
repayment of the Government's debts to Hydro Congo and with the new sys-
tem settling in.
3.16     More importantly, the performance in the petroleum sector over
the past two years has substantially improved Congo's overall public
finance situation and the significance of i:he Special Fund for the
financing of highway investments and maintenance costs has decreased
accordingly. Sector prospects through 1985 suggest that this trend will



- 12 -
continue, providing Government with current revenues likely to sub-
stantially exceed current expenditures. Also, the heavy emphasis in the
1982-1986 Development Plan on the highways subsector provides consider-
able evidence of the Government's intention to allocate adequate funds
for recurrent and investment costs. In 1982, the allocation for
recurrent expenditures will be more than twice those for 1981, while the
investments will be more than three times those for 1981. The funding of
the project's capital and recurrent costs was discussed during
negotiations and reflected in the loan covenants (para. 4.24).
3.17     In 1980 and 1981 the Government ordered equipment for road cons-
truction and maintenance, financed through bilateral agreements (Japan,
Democratic Republic of Germany) and through suppliers credits. Part of
this equipment (US$10 million) was delivered in 1980 and 1981 and the
remainder (US$20 million) during 1982. This equipment was originally to
be used for road construction by force account but the Government decided
to scale down the construction by force account and to make greater use
of private contractors. Therefore, only part of the equipment will be
used for road construction and the remainder will be distributed to local
authorities for the maintenance of local roads and to the Directorate of
Road Maintenance for road maintenance in the non pilot regions.
G. Accounting
3.18     The RNTP has a central accounting office in Brazzaville which
manages the operating budget of the directorates and the regions. All
transactions are supervised and approved by the Government Comptroller
and payments are made through the Treasury with the exception of those
from the Special Fund which are handled through the Commercial Bank. The
system of control for the use of funds inscribed in the budget of the
MTPC is being currently reviewed and the Accounting Office of the MTPC
foresees that due to the increased activity of the Ministry, there will
be a shortage of qualified bookkeepers and accountants. The training
program financed under the proposed project includes training and up-
grading of skills for bookkeepers and accountants.
H. Engineering and Construction
3.19     Foreign consultants designed and supervised major highway cons-
truction until recently. For the ongoing major works of the Ouesso Road,
supervision of constructon is being carried out by RNTP with some assist-
ance by foreign consultants.  RNTP's Directorate of Studies, Control and
Planning is in charge of the design and supervision of minor road works
and it operates the National Laboratory for Public Works (LNETP). This
laboratory has an arrangement with the Research and Development Center
for Construction and Public Works (CEBTP), a well-known French civil
engineering laboratory, under which CEBTP provides assistance when re-
quired. A Government decree gives LNETP a monopoly on all soil testing
for official purposes. The LNETP will assist the Regional Directorates



- 13 -
in the pilot regions in the testing of soils and materials with labora-
tory equipment financed under the project.
3.20     RNTP's Directorate of Civil Works is the only domestic agency
which carries out construction of roads, airfields and sewerage systems.
Its capacity is limited and its performance in the past was not satis-
factory because of lack of skilled personnEl and because of cumbersome
Government administrative procedures. The local building industry is
also not well developed. In 1979 a public construction unit was esta-
blished within the RNTP which has priority for public building projects.
Only few contractors carry out small-scale building construction works
for the private sector; the rare and generally foreign-financed major
construction projects are carried out by foreign firms. There is no
contractors' association, and the Government has not encouraged its
development in the past. However, more recently, Government feels that a
greater participation of domestic contractors in the national construc-
tion activity would be desirable. The proposed project includes tech-
nical assistance to examine the potential and to help formulate
recommendations for the development of the local construction industry.
3.21     In view of its highway plans during the 1982-86 Plan period, the
Government had orginally decided to construct the roads with construction
brigades under RNTP's Directorate of Civil Works. At the request of the
Government a Bank mission examined this approach. The mission has sug-
gested that RNTP retain road construction expertise and begin implement-
ing the program with one pilot brigade, thereafter only increasing the
program's scope in line with the results achieved and the experience
gained. The Government has accepted the m:.ssion's findings, by reducing
the initial number of brigades to two and by making greater use of pri-
vate contractors.
I. Maintenance
3.22     Highway maintenance operations are the responsibility of the
nine Regional Directorates and six subdivisions under the guidance and
supervision of the Central Directorate of toad Maintenance. The Chiefs
of the Regional Directorates are responsible for the workshops in the
regions which receive technical guidance from the Central Directorate of
Equipment (DCM). These workshops are poorly equipped and inadequately
staffed to carry out the activities for which they were intended. Proce-
dures for the collection of data for analy:ical cost accounting have been
introduced but the evaluation of data is done at headquarters in
Brazzaville, since the regional offices lack qualified administrative
personnel. By and large, the administrative structure of maintenance
operations is in place, but the constraints on manpower and budgetary
allocations have severely restricted the scope of road maintenance.
3.23     The road maintenance structure incorporates both mechanized work
units and labor intensive operations. Manial road maintenance is done by
crews in charge of road sections which are on average 170 km long.
Patching of asphalt paved roads is also dole by RNTP's own forces. With



- 14 -
the improved prospects for an increase in RNTP's revenues (paras. 3.15
and 3.16), the organization intends to carry out the overdue resurfacing
of the paved roads.
3.24     As of 1980, Consultants BCEOM found in their study of the equip-
ment fleet that 20% was in working order, 25% in need of repair and 55%
irreparable. The slowdown in maintenance operations in the past because
of poor equipment and lack of funds has led to the general deterioration
of the network. The arrival of new equipment (para. 3.17) has improved
the situation but the equipment fleet is still insufficient to cover all
the road maintenance needs. With the arrival of equipment and the
provision of technical assistance financed under the proposed project it
will be possible to make a start with a systematic road maintenance in
the pilot regions. Through the training and technical assistance
component of the proposed project the quality of road maintenance will
also be enhanced, first in the pilot regions and thereafter in the other
regions.
J. Staffing and Training
3.25     RNTP has a staff of about 1,600 of which 1,000 are engaged di-
rectly in maintenance and some 100 work for the DCM and its workshop in
Brazzaville. Those in the higher positions are relatively young and well
qualified by formal training. Only 50% of the lower positions are actu-
ally filled, and overall only about half of the manpower in place is
fully qualified. In the DCM, half of the required manpower is in place
but only 15% of those employed are fully qualified.
3.26     The staffing needs of the RNTP have been analyzed by Consultants
BCEOM under PPF No. P136-COB in preparation of the proposed maintenance
project. In their November 1980 report, the Consultants established the
training needs of the maintenance personnel and made recommendations for
job descriptions by levels of skill within each category and for the
establishment of career development programs. The Government is aware of
the urgent need for staff training and has authorized construction of a
Training Center with its own funds. The proposed project includes Bank
financing of three training experts for the training center during about
30 months (para. 4.14) and on the job training by a technical assistance
team for the workshops (para. 4.16) also during about 30 months.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01     The needs of the road sector are overwhelming after many years
of neglect, but financial resources and particularly manpower resources
will remain limited over a period of time. Instead of financing main-
tenance operations scattered throughout the country, the proposed project
has been designed as a demonstration type institution-building effort
concentrated in two regions. Thus, the main objectives of the proposed



- 15 -
project are institution building and training while concentrating on two
pilot areas where roads will be rehabilitated and maintained, eventually
enabling renewed cash crop production to be resumed at the higher levels
experienced in 1973 when the areas were accessible to marketing agents.
The better infrastructure is also a prerequisite for subsequent invest-
ments which are expected to halt emigration and serve as a model for
possible replication in other areas.
B. Description
4.02     The proposed project would consist of:
(a)   a 3.5-year time slice of a iPehabilitation and maintenance
program for unpaved roads in two pilot regions (Pool and
Cuvette) through the establLshment of three mechanized
brigades, three grading unils and mobilized crews for
manual maintenance, through establishment or improvement
of workshops and through the provision of laboratory
equipment for soils and materials testing;
(b)   technical assistance to RNTP for the training of mainte-
nance personnel, for strengthening its capability to plan
and manage road maintenance, and for the management of
mechanical workshops;
(c)   technical assistance to RNTP for highway planning and for
development of a local construction industry; and
(d)   the refinancing of PPF No. P-136 COB.
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Progran
4.03     There is a country-wide need to rehabilitate the network before
routine road maintenance can be resumed; this applies in particular to
unpaved roads. To ensure a proper execution of the rehabilitation and
maintenance programs, the two selected regions will be provided under the
project with road maintenance equipment, mechanical workshop facilities
and trained personnel. The administrative and technical experience which
will be gained in the pilot regions, plus the overall training will make
it possible to gradually introduce similar programs in the other regions.
4.04     The Government has selected Pool and Cuvette as pilot regions
because of their agricultural potential and to maintain a regional ba-
lance between the north and south. The Regional Directorate of the Pool
is situated in Kinkala, 80 km west of Brazzaville. A paved road will
facilitate communications with the Central Directorates of Road
Maintenance and of Equipment and with the Training Center's instructors
if technical problems arise. Inasmuch as roads in the Brazzaville area
fall under the jurisdiction of the Pool Directorate, the Training Center
can coordinate its field activities with those of Pool's field units.
The road maintenance operations in Pool are carried out from Kinkala,



- 16 -
where the Regional Directorate is situated, and from a subdivision center
in Kindamba. The program to be executed (Map and Annex 1, Table 6) will
cover the opening up and the routine grading of the regional network
(1,100 kim) and the regravelling of the Mindouli-Kindamba-Kinkala Road
(about 200 km).
4.05     The northern pilot region, Cuvette, is connected by a road to
Brazzaville (about 500 km) which will remain unreliable and difficult
until a section of 290 km is paved. This circumstance makes communica-
tions with Brazzaville more difficult than for the Pool region. However,
the Bank agreed with the Government's selection of Cuvette because of the
urgent need to reopen the roads for traffic in this potentially rich
coffee, cocoa and palm producing area. The region comprises two sub-
divisions but the program will cover only the Makoua Subdivision which is
responsible for about 700 km of roads. One grading unit will serve the
needs of the entire network in the subdivision. During the second half
of 1984 and early 1985, the regravelling unit will open up the network
through spot intervention and will thereafter regravel 130 km of the
160 km Makoua-Kelle Road (Map and Annex 1, Table 6).
4.06     Both regions will also be provided with means of transport for
the crews in charge of bridge repairs and manual road maintenance. The
scope and timing of the road maintenance program in the pilot regions
were confirmed during negotiations (para 4.32).
4.07     Road maintenance in the other regions will benefit from the
arrival of newly acquired equipment (para. 3.17), from the gradual up-
grading of road maintenance personnel through the training program and
from improvement in the maintenance of the equipment fleet through the
services of the technical assistance team for the DCM. The asphalt paved
roads are generally in need of resurfacing which the RNTP intends to
carry out with its own funds.
Highway Maintenance Equipment
4.08     Out of the US$20 million worth of equipment delivered to RNTP
during 1982 (para. 3.17) about US$9 million represents equipment that
will be used to establish two construction brigades (para 3.21). An
equal distribution of the remainder (US$11 million) over all regions,
including the two pilot regions, would make about US$1.2 million
available for highway maintenance in each region. This is insufficient
to carry out the proposed rehabilitation and maintenance program in the
pilot regions. These regions will therefore be provided under the
project with work units especially designated for carrying out the
program (Annex 1, Tables 7 and 8). To keep the units in working order,
spare parts for repairs and consumables for equipment maintenance are
also financed under the project.
4.09     Pool would be equipped with two grading units, one regravelling
unit, one intervention unit for spot rehabilitation and vehicles for
manual maintenance groups. This equipment should be adequate to maintain
the entire network in the Pool region. While the overall equipment re-



- 17 -
quirements of the Cuvette are larger than l:hose of Pool, the shortage of
immediately available qualified maintenance personnel compels the limita-
tion of new equipment for it to only one grading unit, one regravelling
unit and vehicles for manual maintenance groups. This equipment would be
assigned to the Makoua Subdivision, one of the Region's two subdivisions.
Equipment for the other subdivision in the Cuvette Region may be provided
by the Government at a later stage after sufficient manpower becomes
available through the training program. The number and composition of
the working units to be provided under the project were confirmed during
negotiations.
Workshops
4.10     To provide repair facilities for rnechanical equipment, new work-
shops will be constructed and existing worklshops will be modified or
extended. Modifications to existing structures, together with the ins-
tallation of a three-phase electrical power system, are required for the
Central Workshop of the DCM in Brazzaville, Partly built workshops in
Kindamba (Pool) and Makoua (Cuvette) will be completed under the pro-
ject. All these works will be carried out by RNTP and financed from its
own funds.
4.11     Various items of workshop equipment for the Central Workshop in
Brazzaville, including 2 light overhead cranes, and for the regional and
subdivisional workshops in Kinkala, Kindamba and Makoua would be acquired
under the project. A list of this equipment has been established by
Consultants BCEOM and has been accepted by the Bank. The list was
confirmed during negotiations.
Training
4.12     In view of the manpower situation, which is in fact constraining
the size of operations, training and institution-building have the high-
est priorities under the project. To improve the staffing situation, the
RNTP intends to operate a permanent training center in Brazzaville with
the help of Bank financing (para. 3.26). As a first step, it awarded a
contract for and work started early in 1982 on the construction of
buildings for the Training Center and for a new office. The latter will
provide accommodation for RNTP staff curreiltly occupying an office
originally built for training purposes under the Highway Maintenance
Project's First Phase, which will now be used for its intended purpose.
The Training Center consists of three classrooms, one large workshop, one
smaller workshop and one storage room. The Government was to have
constructed these buildings and to have provided training aids under the
First Phase Maintenance Project. However, because of lack of local funds
only a small part of the Training Center wals constructed.  To complete
the buildings and provide the training aids the Government made CFAF 300
million available from its own funds.  Construction of the Training
Center is expected to be completed by early 1983.
4.13     Under the proposed project about 400 persons will follow one or
more upgrading courses, refresher courses and courses to prepare gradu-



- 18 -
ates from trade schools for the more specialized type of work in the
RNTP. The duration of the courses will vary from one-week refresher
courses for equipment operators to seven-month training courses for
mechanical workshop chiefs. To provide practical training a mechanized
training unit will be established from existing equipment. The unit will
operate on existing roads in the Pool region and thus provide "hands-on"
instruction to the trainees. The presence of fully operational work
units in the Pool region will further provide training facilities under
field conditions.
4.14     Training expertise for the training team will be provided by one
training advisor (29 man-months) and 2 instructors (each for 29 man-
months). One of their immediate tasks is to assist in the selection of
personnel to be trained. The terms of reference have been prepared in
agreement with the Bank and a contract is being negotiated with
consultants BCEOM.
4.15     It is RNTP's intention to make training a permanent function
within its organization and RNTP will therefore reassess the scope of the
training program on the basis of the result obtained during the first 2.5
years. This reassessment could provide the basis for the continuation of
training under a follow-up project.
Technical Assistance
4.16     The need to repair or recondition about 100 items of the exist-
ing highway maintenance equipment fleet and the routine task of properly
maintaining equipment newly acquired will place a heavy demand on the
staff of DCM. To help the Directorate improve its management and daily
operations and to provide on the job training opportunities, the project
includes the services of specialists in mechanical equipment workshop
management and practices. The following experts would be engaged:
1 advisor to the Director of DCM                              29 months
1 advisor to the Chief of the heavy equipment workshop    29 months
1 advisor to the Chief of the vehicle workshop                29 months
1 advisor to the Chief Accountant                             10 months
2 advisors to itinerant mechanical equipment inspectors,
29 months each                                              58 months
TOTAL                                                      155 man-months
Terms of reference have been prepared in agreement with the Bank and a
contract is being negotiated with consultants BCEOM. The Technical
Assistance Team will be required to recommend in their final report the
measures to be taken to optimize the benefits of their services. Their
recommendations could lead to another time slice of Technical Assistance
in a follow-up project. Because of the urgency of technical assistance
to the workshop personnel the Directorate has employed temporarily a
small BCEOM team since mid 1982 under its own financing. This team will
be incorporated into the larger Bank-financed team once the proposed
project has been approved.



- 19 -
4.17     The project also includes 20 man-months of technical assistance
for highway planning (para. 2.14) and 18 months of assistance to help
develop the local construction industry (para. 3.20).
Soil and Materials Investigation
4.18     The Government has requested the Einancing of laboratory equip-
ment for the testing of soils and material;s in the pilot regions. The
testing will be done by field units trained and supervised by the
National Laboratory for Public Works. A list of equipment has been pre-
pared and has been accepted by the Bank.
C.  Cost Estimates
4.19     The total capital cost of the project is estimated at
US$19.7 million, including foreign costs of about US$13.4 million (see
following table). Out of the local costs of US$6.4 million, taxes and
duties represent US$3.5 million. Since th,s project would finance a time
slice of the rehabilitation and maintenance program in the two pilot
regions, the cost estimate does not include a contingency for quantity
increases. With the contingency for price increases in both foreign and
local currency amounting to 7.5% p.a. for 1983-85, the total price
increases account for 11.2% of the project's base cost.



PROJECT COST ESTIMATES 1/
CAPITAL COSTS
Base Cost at Late 1982 prices (US$1.00 - CFAF 340)
Foreign
------ CFAF million               -------- US$ '000 --------            as
Local    Foreign    Total         Local    Foreign       Total    % of Total
Road Maintenance Equipment for:
Pool Region                                     713.0    1,214.1  1,927.1       2,097.2    3,570.8   5,668.0            63
Cuvette Region                                  427.8       728.4  1,156.2      1,258.2    2,142.4   3,400.6            63
1,140.8    1,942.5  3,083.3       3,355.4    5,713.2   9,068.6            63
Initial Spare Parts (15%)                       171.1       291.4    462.5        503.3       857.1   1,360.4           63
1,311.9    2,233.9  3,545.8       3,858.7    6,570.3  10,429.0            63
Buildings
Workshops:
Central Workshop-Brazzaville                   21.8        32.6     54.4         64.0        96.0      160.0          60
Pool Region-Kindamba                           11.4        17.1     28.5         33.4        50.3       83.7          60
Cuvette Region-Makoua                           9.0        13.3     22.3         26.4        39.3       65.7          60
H1ighway Maintenance Center                     136.0       204.0    340.0        400.0       600.0   1,000.0           60
178.2      267.0    445.2         523.8       785.6   1,309.4           60                 0
Workshop Equipment
Central Workshop-Brazzaville
Pool Region and Makoua                          124.7       172.2    296.9        366.8       506.6      873.4          58
Technical Assistance
for Training                                     99.2       396.7    495.9        291.7    1,166.7   1,458.4            80
for Directorate of Equipment                    176.7       753.4    930.1        519.8    2,215.8   2,735.6            81
for 11ighway Planning                            19.7        96.0    115.7         57.8       282.4      340.2          83
for Local Construction Industry                  17.9        87.3    105.2         52.6       256.9      309.5          83
313.5    1,333.4  1,646.9         921.9    3,921.8   4,843.7            81
Equipment for Soils Laboratory                     I9.7        38.1      57.8        57.8       112.2      170.0          66
Refinancing of PPF No. P 136-COB                     --        42.5      42.5          --       125.0      125.0         100
Total Base Cost Estima e                        1,948.0    4,087.1  6,035.1       5,729.0   12,021.5  17,750.5            68
Price Contingencies,                            217.7       460.4    678.1        640.2    1,354.2   1,994.4            68
Total ProJect Cost  a      oan.A/               2,165.7    4,547.5  6,713.2       6,369.2   13,375.7  19,744.9            68
Front Enid Fee on Bank Loan3  63.8                                    63.8                    187.7      187.7         100
Total Financing Required                   2,165.7    4,611.3  6,777.0        6,369.2   13,563.4  19,932.6            68
1/ Based on information from RNTP, consultants BCEOM and estimates by mission.
2/ Based on annual price increase for 1983-1985: 7.5%
Cost of consultants' services for 1982-1985: 8%
3/ For Bank loan of US$12.7 million.



- 21 -
4.20     The cost of operating the Bank-financed road maintenance
equipment in the pilot regions during the three year (1984 through 1986)
maintenance program are estimated at CFAF ].7 billion (see following
table). These costs do not include depreciation, labor costs of
equipment operators and workshop mechanics nor overhead costs, since the
budget makes provision for these items.
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION IN PILOT REGIONS
Cost of Operating Maintenance Brigades -/
Costs per Annum (late 1982 price level)
Pool Region (in CFAF million)                        347
Cuvette Region (in CFAF million)                     207
554
Costs for Period 1984 through 1986 2/
in CFAF million
Period
1984 2/       985        1986   1984-86
Pool Region                 195          415         450      1.060
Cuvette Region             115           250         265        630
310          665         715      1,690
1/  Excluding depreciation of equipment, labor costs of equipment
operators and workshop mechanics and cost of overheads.
2/  Based on annual price increases for 1983-86: 7.5%.
3/  Assuming that only 50X of the annual costs will be incurred in 1984
because of gradual delivery of project financed equipment.
4.21     The cost estimate of road maintenance equipment is based on recent
offers by manufacturers. The estimates for the building construction
works and for workshop equipment are derived from previous estimates by
Consultants BCEOM, updated for the effect of price increases. The cost
estimate of soils and materials testing equipment is based on recent
offers from suppliers. All cost estimates were confirmed during
negotiations.
4.22     The average billing rate offered by consultants BCEOM (paras. 4.14
and 4.16) for training and technical assist:ance for the workshops is
US$11,100 per man-month. The estimated rate for the experts in highway
planning and the construction industry is US$12,000 per month, taking
into account the shorter duration of their assignments and the relative
scarcity of expertise in these fields. The per diem in the Congo of
about US$70 for each specialist includes the high cost of housing rents
in Brazzaville. The cost of transportation to and from Brazzaville per



- 22 -
family is estimated on average at US$17,500, including freight costs for
personal effects. These amounts include a non-billed vacation for every
ten months of field service. On the basis of the above rates the overall
cost for consultant's services, including those for highway planning and
the local construction industry, amounts to US$12,300 per man-month.
D. Financing and Disbursements
4.23     The proposed loan of US$12.7 million would provide 100% of the
project's foreign capital financing, other than those for buildings, or
64% of total capital financing required including taxes or 77% net of
taxes. The Government's contribution to the capital cost would amount to
about US$7.2 million (about CFAF 2.4 billion equivalent), including
US$3.5 million for taxes (see following table). The Government should
further contribute as a minimum CFAF 1,7 billion (US$5.0 million) equi-
valent over the project implementation period for the cost of operating
the Bank-financed road maintenance equipment in the pilot regions (para.
4.20), assuming that the cost of labor and other cost items will continue
to be funded as before.



- 23 -
FINANCING PLAN
3ank             Government
Foreign        Local      Foreign
-----------in US$'000-----------
Road Maintenance Equipment
and Spare Parts                        6,570.3       3,858.7
Buildings                                                 523.8       785.6
Workshop Equipment                          506.6         366.8
Technical Assistance                      3,921.8         921.9
Equipment for Soils Lab.                    112.2          57.8
Refinancing PPF No. 136-COB                 125.0
Base Costs                            11,235.9       5,729.0       785.6
Price Increase for Buildings                               44.8        67.2
All Other Price Increases                 1,287.0         595.4
12,522.9       6,369.2       852.8
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                  187.7
12,710.6
Total Bank Financing               US$12,700,000
Total Government Financing         US$ 7,232,600



- 24 -
4.24     Since in 1980 the projected amount to be received through the Road
Fund would have covered only about half of the cost of operating the
Bank-financed road maintenance brigades, assurances were obtained during
loan negotiations that Government will provide all capital costs not
covered by the proposed loan and all recurrent expenditures needed for
the execution of the project, as well as for minimum operations in the
remaining regions.
4.25     The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:
% of Expenditures
Category                             U               to be Financed
(1) Equipment for road main-                   100% of foreign costs
tenance, workshops and                     or, if procured domesti-
soils laboratories and                     cally, 63% of total
spare parts for above        7,700,000    expenditures
(2) Consultants' services        4,137,300    81% of total costs
(3) Refinancing PPF No.                        100% of disbursements
P136-COB                       125,000    under PPF No. P136-COB
(4) Refinancing Front End Fee       187,700    100% of actual Front End
Fee
(5) Unallocated                    550,000
12,700,000
4.26     Because of the high priority for training and technical
assistance for the workshops, the project includes retroactive financing
to a maximum of US$400,000 to enable the early engagement of the
consultants as envisaged under the project. The provision for Category
(1) to disburse 63% of total expenditures if the goods are procured
domestically makes it possible to purchase spare parts locally as the
need arises. This proportion represents the estimated C.I.F. value of
these goods. All disbursement applications would be fully documented.
During negotiations assurance was obtained that the RNTP will keep
separate accounts for the highway maintenance operations in the pilot
regions, for the training component of the project, for the central
workshop and for the workshops in the pilot regions. These accounts will
show construction costs, other capital investment and recurrent
expenditures, operating revenues, if any, and other sources of funds and
will be audited and reported upon by an independent auditor, acceptable
to the Bank, within four months after the close of each fiscal year. The
Terms of Reference for the auditor's services must be satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.27     The following disbursement schedule was confirmed during
negotiations. The schedule differs from the relevant FPAFA profile in
that the disbursement for the project financed equipment is stretched



- 25 -
over 1.9 years instead of 3.4 years as in the FPAFA profile. That period
would appear to be too long for equipment that complies with standard
factory specifications and that does not have to be manufactured upon
special demand. Any balance remaining in the loan account will be
cancelled.
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and                        at End of Quarter
End of Quarter                         (US$ '000 Equivalent)
1983/84
December 31, 1983                                     700
March 31, 1984                                      1,000
June 30, 1984                                       1,500
1984/85
September 30, 1984                                  2,100
December 31, 1984                                   2,900
March 31, 1985                                      4,200
June 30, 1985                                       6,100
1985/86
September 30, 1985                                  8,000
December 31, 1985                                  10,100
March 31, 1986                                     11,100
June 30, 1986                                      11,800
1986/87
September 30, 1986                                 12,300
December 31, 1986                                  12,700
E. Implementation and Reporting
4.28     The RNTP will have overall responsibility for implementing the
project. The agreed road maintenance program for the pilot regions will
be implemented by the Regional Directorates of Pool and Cuvette under the
supervision of the Directorate of Road Maintenance.
4.29     For the time being, RNTP's Directorate of Administration and
Personnel will be responsible for the implementation of the training
program. Government has recently informed the Bank that it intends to
follow up on the Bank's suggeston to establish a Directorate for
Personnel Training within the RNTP. RNTP's Directorate of Studies and
Planning will be the coordinator for the technical assistance in highway
planning (para. 2.14).



- 26 -
4.30     The Directorate of Equipment, assisted by the technical assist-
ance team for workshop operations, will have direct responsibility for
the procurement of equipment for road maintenance and the workshops and
for spare parts. It will also plan and manage the construction or
extensions of workshop buildings. Because of the importance of training
and technical assistance to the Directorate for the implementation of the
project, the Government intends to engage the relevant consultants by
early 1983. In addition, their appointment constitutes a condition of
effectiveness.
4.31     The National Laboratory for Public Works will be in charge of
the procurement of equipment for the testing of soils and materials and
it will supervise the field units in the regions. The technical
assistance for the development of the local contracting industry will be
attached to a lead ministry which will be selected during the early stage
of project implementation (para. 3.20).
4.32     Assurances were obtained during negotiations from Government
that it will adequately staff the pilot regions and that the road
rehabilitation and maintenance program in these regions will be carried
out in accordance with an overall action plan as agreed between RNTP and
the Bank. To this end the staff requirements for the pilot regions
during the project implementation period are reflected in a supplemental
letter together with outlines of the agreed action plan and of the
estimated cost of operating the Bank-financed road maintenance
brigades. The action plan will be updated through annual programs which
will be submitted to the Bank for review and comments. The schedule for
project implementation is given in Annex 2.
4.33     It was agreed during negotiations that RNTP will submit to the
Bank every three months a progress report and will prepare a project
completion report within six months after the Closing Date (December 31,
1986) of the project.
F. Procurement
4.34     Contracts for the highway maintenance equipment (US$10.4
million) and the workshop equipment (US$1.0 million) will be awarded
after ICB according to the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement". The bid
invitation for highway maintenance and workshop equipment will be
announced in "Development Forum" and in the local press. A copy of the
invitation will be sent to local representatives of countries whose
suppliers are eligible under the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. The
technical assistance for training, for the workshops, for highway
planning and for the development of the local construction industry
(US$4.8 million in total) will be provided by qualified and experienced
consultants on conditions acceptable to the Bank. Bids for the soils and
materials testing equipment (US$0.2 million) will be directly invited
from a group of potential suppliers (Limited International Tendering),
since the number of suppliers for this very specialized type of equipment
is limited.



- 27 -
4.35     An initial stock of spare parts ard consumables for the new
equipment will be purchased with the equipmLent after ICB. Thereafter
proprietary spares may be ordered directly from the original suppliers
and non proprietary spares through ICB, Limited International Tendering,
Local Competitive Bidding or Local Shopping, to a total value of
US$200,000 equivalent.
4.36     The Bank would review and approve the invitations to bid, the
proposed awards and the contracts for all equipment and spare parts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more. Contracts for
less than this amount will be reviewed and approved by the Bank before
submission of the first withdrawal application in respect of these
contracts.
Environmental Impact
4.37     The opening up of roads and their subsequent maintenance in the
pilot regions will improve the access and t:ransport to markets, schools
and medical facilities and thus improve the rural environment.
V. ECONOMIC EVALJATION
5.01     The proposed project is designed Lo support the Congolese
Government to expand and strengthen its road maintenance institution, to
help it decentralize operations and improve the regional directorates'
capacity to plan and carry out road maintenance and thereby support the
agricultural development of the regions and reduce road transport costs.
The training component in the project and the technical assistance to the
Central Workshop in Brazzaville will benefit the entire RNTP, while the
equipment purchases and workshop modernization in Kindamba and Makoua are
designated for the Pool and Cuvette regions. It is further expected that
the pilot maintenance project in Pool and Cuvette regions will provide an
organizational and operational basis for RNTP road maintenance activities
in the rest of the country. As roads are brought back into regular usage
with rehabilitation and adequate maintenance, including reconstruction of
bridges, the specialized marketing agencies will be able to make suffi-
cient trips to collect the crops and distribute manufactured goods along
the roads' impact areas. It is expected that farmers will resume pro-
duction of cash crops and will gradually recover the revenues lost
through a steady decline in output since 1973. Substantial reductions in
vehicle operating costs for the existing traffic in the two regions will
also result from the project.
5.02     The evaluation of project benefits is based on vehicle operating
cost data prepared by the consultants BCEOM, updated by RNTP and the data
and information collected from the Ministry of Agriculture and various
agencies which provide agricultural extension and marketing services for
specific cash crops. Since 1973, the production of cash crops in the two
regions has declined steadily, by as much as 12% per annum for rice, 7%
for tobacco, 7% for coffee, and 3% for cocoa in spite of steadily rising
farmgate prices (Annex 1, Tables 9 and 10). Moreover, while domestic



- 28 -
production of rice was shrinking, Congo became a heavy importer of the
grain. All sources interviewed and a special IBRD/FAO identification
mission report of 1979 confirmed that the deterioration of the roads was
the immediate cause for the drop in production of cash crops and that no
improvement can be foreseen until the roads are restored to good order.
In the past after the rainy seasons, roads and river crossings became
impassable, marketing of products became uneconomical, and crops dete-
riorated on the farm, until producers adjusted their output to what they
could reasonably expect to sell given the accessibility of their farms to
the collecting agents. In the case of corn, it is known from experience
in the southern regions, that road improvement and an 11% price increase
brought about a tripling of the farm production.
5.03     Both regions have a recognized agricultural potential for the
production of vegetables, manioc, palm, and corn. Cash crops are raised
in the areas of roads proposed for regravelling and this economic
activity was taken into account by the project economic evaluation. The
joint FAO/IBRD identification mission of November 1979 has indicated
that, for an increase in agricultural producton beyond the levels
attained traditionally, additional investments in technical assistance
are necessary and rehabilitation of the road network is a precondition
for the rehabilitation of agriculture to reach even its traditional
level. A major coffee-growing plantation in Kindamba, Pool region, is
expected to start commercial production in 1984 and the development of
rice production in Cuvette would start with Chinese technical
assistance. Both these projects depend on the RNTP program of road
rehabilitation and subsequent maintenance to assure timely provision of
inputs brought in from Brazzaville as well as evacuation of the output.
5.04     The farmers in the Congo have a very low income; it is estimated
at about CFAF 30,000 (US$90) per family per year. It is assumed that
farmers in the two pilot regions will be able to increase their revenues
from cash crops, and have access to more goods imported into the region
at a lower price, especially if, as is likely, the reduction in transport
costs will not be fully kept by the transporters. Overall, the process
of regional isolation and emigration are expected to be reversed once the
roads are practicable. The cash crops for export will be more competi-
tive in the world market, and eventually imports of foods could be re-
duced.
5.05     The evaluation of benefits reflects orders of magnitude, in the
absence of data and reliable information. It includes: (a) operating
cost savings (Annex 1, Table 11) of existing traffic, 20 vpd on main
roads as reflected in ferry crossing counts and 5 vpd on other roads, as
well as of generated traffic (92% of benefits) and (b) farmers' increased
revenues from cash crops collected by the Government agencies, assuming
that as a result of the road improvements agricultural production would
increase gradually to reach the 1973 level (Annex 1, Table 9) by 1990 (8%
of benefits). The increased production tonnages would not add more than
about 1 vpd on most roads. Conservatively, no benefits have been as-
signed for increased passenger trips, which however are highly valued by
the passengers, or to improve transport of products traded within the



- 29 -
region or by non-government agencies, as thlere is no proper basis for
their quantification.
5.06     The project's overall rate of return is about 24%, considering
the above benefits and the project cost nel; of taxes, including the cost
of technical assistance directly related to the two pilot regions. In-
cluding the full cost of the technical assistance to RNTP, without count-
ing any additional benefits, the overall p-:oject rate of return is about
16%. The overall return in the Cuvette region, where some 700 km will be
improved, including regravelling of 200 km of main roads, is about 29%.
For the Pool region, where 1100 km will be improved, the overall rate of
return is about 21%; the incremental retura from the regravelling of 200
km of main roads is estimated at about 17%. (Annex 1, Table 12)1/
5.07     The rate of return for the spot inprovement operations is much
higher than the one for regravelling; however, the regravelling program
was retained rather than the spot improvement program expanded in order
to have a demonstration project, where staff could be properly trained
on the job before being redeployed to the other regions, as qualified
staff is a major constraint and equipment much less so. After the two
first full working seasons, and depending on the results, the program
should be reviewed, and if found more justifiable, the equipment can be
put to do work on additional roads or moved to other regions. In order
to enable RNTP to make a decision on this point and also to provide a
basis for future maintenance programs in the country as a whole the
Government agreed at loan negotiations to prepare, submit to the Bank for
comments by September 30, 1983 and thereafter promptly implement a
program of traffic counts and a procedure for monitoring the productivity
of the rehabilitation and regravelling brigades.
Project Risks
5.08     In 1976, a similar project proposal was cancelled because the
Government lacked counterpart funds. However, during the last year
RNTP's financial position has improved (paras. 3.15 and 3.16). Further,
as long as the current level of oil revenues continues in the country,
and given the priorities endorsed in the L982-86 Development Plan con-
cerning agricultural development and the emphasis placed on road invest-
ments and rehabilitation, the risk is very low that the project objec-
tives will not be met because of lack of counterpart financing or insuf-
ficient funds to cover recurrent costs. There is a risk, though, that
the brigades will reach, only gradually, t;he level of productivity now
1/ The incremental rate of return for the regravelling is sensitive to
the allocation of the incremental cash crop revenues as between spot
rehabilitation and regravelling. No clear-cut basis exist for such an
allocation. For this incremental analysi3 it was arbitrarily assumed
that 70% of these benefits were due to the spot rehabilitation of 1100 km
and 30% to the regravelling of the 200 km. If a greater share of these
benefits were attributed to regravelling, its rate of return would
increase.



- 30 -
anticipated and thus the ERR could be substantially lower. In order to
minimize this risk, the project includes a strong technical assistance
component. To get some indication of the possible effect on the project
ERR of lower productivity and benefits a simplified sensitivity calcu-
lation was undertaken; due to data limitations a more comprehensive ana-
lysis was not considered feasible. If as a result of lower productivity
only 75% of the number of km (Annex 1, Table 6) are actually rehabili-
tated or regravelled, the EER for the project, including directly related
technical assistance, would be reduced from 24% to 19%. If, in addition,
the estimated benefits were reduced by 15%, the overall ERR would be
reduced further to 12%.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     During negotiations, the following was discussed and agreed upon
with the Government and incorporated as covenants in the Loan Agreement:
(a)   provision by the Government of all capital costs not cov-
ered by the proposed loan and all recurrent expenditures
needed for project execution and for minimum operations in
the remaining regions (para. 4.24);
(b)   the auditing by an independent auditor of the project
related accounts (para. 4.26); and
(c)   the preparation and implementation of a program for
traffic counts and for monitoring the heavy brigades
(para. 5.07).
6.02     During negotiations, the following was discussed and reflected
in a supplemental letter: the Action Plan for implementing the road
rehabilitation and maintenance program (paras. 4.06, 4.09 and 4.32).
6.03     During negotiations the following items were reviewed and/or
confirmed with the Government and included in the minutes of negotia-
tions:
(a)   terms of reference for three training experts and six
specialists in mechanical equipment workshop management
and practices to assist the Directorate of Equipment to
improve its management and daily operations (para. 4.14
and 4.16); and
(b)   draft terms of reference for the highway planning expert
(para. 2.14) and for the specialist in the construction
industry (para. 3.20).
6.04     The following is a condition of loan effectiveness:  the
appointment of consultants for training and for technical assistance to
the workshops (para.4.30).



- 31 -
6.05     The proposed project is suitable Eor a loan of US$12.7 million
equivalent on standard Bank terms to the Government of the People's
Republic of the Congo.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF T11E CONGO
THiRD 1i1GHWAY  PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Railway  Port and River Traffic, 1970-78
(nillions)
1970       1971       1972       1973        1974       1975        1976       1977        1978
Railway Tr.iffic 
Passe,nger - kilometers                 144.1      145.9       156.5      170.9      206.5       222.9      249.0      259.5       285.0
Freiglht (in ton - kilometers)
CFHO                                 517.6      539.8      524.3       522.2      528.5      457.6       507.2      516.0       500.2
COMILOG                              297.8      378.8      369.8       398.4      416.6      431.8       450.9      376.1       324.7
Port 'Iraffic (in tons)
Pointe Noire                          2,872.0   3,297.0   3,218.0   3,254.0   3,409.0   3,357.0   3,387.0   3,030.0   3,872.0
River ports                             438.0      438.0       445.0      486.0      537.0       325.0      512.0       532.0      536.0
River Transport
Barges (in tons)                         78.0       80.0        89.0      106.0      112.0       100.0      116.0      108.0        91.0
Floated logs (in tons)                   23.0       39.0        44.0       58.0       65.0        20.0      111.0      135.0        99.0
Passengers (in numbers)                   7.0       12.0        17.0       19.0        27.0       37.0       42.0        41.0       51.0
Source:  ATC Plan d'Entreprise, 1979.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Traffic Levels on Classified Highway Network, 1969-77
---Southern Network  1/---       ---Northern Network  2/---       -----------Total-----------
%  of Total                      %  of Total                      %  of  Total
Length  (km)      Network        Length  (km)      Network        Length  (km)        Network
Annual Traffic Level        1969    19 7   1969  1977        I7       1977 1969-  1977         1969   1977   1Sf6 9    1971
More than 150,000 tons          109     44    1.3       .5       ---    ---    ---    ---         109      44      1.3      .5
50,000 - 150,000 tons           385    393    4.7    4.8         ---    ---    ---    ---         385    393      4.7    4.8
10,000 - 50,000 tons           842    825   10.2   10.0          247    447    3.0    5.4       1,089  1,272    13.2   15.4
2,5UU - 10,000 LUIj6            828    onn   ln n   in Q         792    722    9.1    8.7       1,580  1,622    19.1   19.6    l
Less than 2,500 tons         2,341  2,343   28.3   28.3        2,766  2,596   33.4   31.4       5,107  4,939    61.7   59.7
TOTAL                   4,505  4,505   54.5   54.5       3,765  3,765   45.5   45.5        8,270  8,270   100.0  100.0
1/ The southern network includes the roads in the coastal area, in the Niari Valley and around Brazzaville.
2/ The northern network includes the roads in the Cuvette and Sangha regions.
Source: BCEOM, Highway Maintenance Studies -- 1971, 1976.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Vehicle Registration Data,1975-79
Private
Two          Passenger
Wheels         Vehicle       Small Trucks    Trucks          Bus          Others       Total
1975           546            1,308            698            298           105          21           2,976
1976           390            1,259            662             48            72           9           2,440
1977           593            1,674            786             60           155         243           3,511
1978           241            1,207            653             64          127           63           2,365            4
1979           126            1,178            690             74          162            3           2,233
TOTAL  1,896            6,626          3,499           544           621          339          13,525
Source: MTAC.
S                                    S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Consumption of Petroleum Products, 1973-79
(tons)
1973           1974            1975            1976            1977             1978            1979
Super           9,648          11,544          13,410          18,238          19,214           20,955          19,364
Regular        17,820          17,853          18,250          24,018           19,509          17,279          17,086
Diesel         96,609          98,343         103,270         129,735          109,730         126,180         119,821
0i1s            5,99.           5.574           6,352           7,671            7,897           6,542           6,711l
Yearly Variations (%)
Super                            20              14              36               5               9             -8
Regular                          -                2               32            -19             -11               -
Diesel                            2               5               26            -15              15              -5
Oils                              -              14               21              3             -17               -
Source:  Marketing Division,Hydrocongo, February 1980.
trL4



- 36 -
AI'NE 1
TABLE 5
PEOPLES'S REPUBLIC OF ThE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Highway Expenditures, 1977-82
(in millions CFAF)
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
(budgetted
Recurrent Expenditures
Cost of permanent personnel              1,035    977  1,213  1,215  1,797  2,216
Other expenditures                         586    456    386    407    394  2,735
1,621  1,433  1,599  1,622  2,191  4,951.
Investments                                 1,248  1,415    640  6,526L/7,213  25,49-7
Total RNTP expenditures                  2,869  2,848  2,239  8,148  9,404  31,442
|Highway Maintenance Expenditures
Cost of permanent personnel              nla.     710    760    835    800  1,000
Expenditures for rehabilitation works  n.a.       336    58.2   625    700  3,250
TOTAL                     n.a.   1,046  1,342  1,460  1,550  4,250
1/  Of which 625 million CFAF in 1989 and 700 million CFAF in 1981 were mostly used
for rehabilitation of exi§ting roads and should be considered as expenditures
for highway maintenance.   For 1982 the budget includes 3,250 million CFAF for
this purpose.
Source:   RNTP, 1982



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 6
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC O'F THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program in Pilot Regions, 1984-86
19841/         1985             1986
_________--length in km ------------
Pool Region  (1,100 km)
Grading (2 units)                          5C0            1,000            1,000
Spot Rehabilitation (1 unit)               3f0              700              700
Regravelling (1 unit)                       40               70               70
Cuvette Region
Makoua Subdivision (700 km)
Grading (1 unit)   2/                      300              700              700
Spot Rehabilitation-                       5'50             150               _
Regravelling (1 unit)                       --               60               70
1/ Assuming a 50% output in 1984 since work ullits are expected to
become operational during 1984.
2/ Spot rehabilitation in the Cuvette Region to be done with the
regravelling unit before it will shift to regravelling in1985.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 7
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Composition of Work Units
Spot
Grading      Rehabilitation      Regravelling
_ Unit             Unit               Unit
Grader                                  3                1                  1
Bulldozer, Type D6                                       1                  1
Bulldozer, Type D4                                                          1
Frontloader                                              1                  2
Tipper, lOt                                              4                  7
Service Truck                          1                 1                  1
Water Tanker                                             2                  2
Fuel Tanker                                              1                  1
Sheepsfoot Roller                                        1                  1
Wheel Tractor                                            1                  1
Self Propelled Tire Roller                               1                  1
Pick-up                                                  1                  1
Light Passenger Vehicle                1
Motor Pump                                               2                  2
Radio Transceiver                                        1                  1



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Equipment Requirement
Pool Region                Cuvette Re ion
2 Grading Units    For       1 Grading Unit    For         Total
1 Spot Reh. Unit  Region    1 Regravelling   Region    Equipment
1 Regravelling                    Unit                  Requirement
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Unit            .
Graders                                8                            4                        12
Bulldozers, Type D6                    2                            1                         3
Bulldozers, Type D4                    1                            1                         2
Frontloaders                           3                            2                          5
Tippers, lOt                          11                            7                        18
Serviee Tr,^ks                         4                            2                         6
Water Tankers                          4                            2                         6
Fuel Tankers                           2                            1                          3
Sheepsfoot Rollers                     2                            1                         3
Wheel Tractors                         2                            1                          3
Self Propelled Tire Rollers            2                            1                         3
Pick-ups                               2              4             1             2            9
Light Passenger Vehicle                2              3             1             2           8
Motor Pumps                            4                            2                          6
Radio Transceivers                     2              2             1             2            7
Low Loaders                                           1                           1           2
Trucks, Manuel Maint.                                 6                           4          10
Trucks, Bridge Maint.                                 2                           2            4
1gtt



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 9
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Marketed Production in the Pool and Cuvette Regions, 1973-79
(tons)
---------------Pool ----------------            ------------Cuvette ------------
1973       1979            decrease           1973       1979          decrease
Coffee -           ---         .8                              191.5      109.4            43
Tobacco           35        19.1               41                 ---       ---
Rice           1,351        380.6              72              476.0      303.2            35
Corn 2/            ---      600.0              --                ---      151.4
Cacao              ---       ---               __              141.6      116.9            17
Manioc        58,905                                        24,460.0
Peanuts          195                                            41.0
Bananas                                                        125.0
1/ Over 90% non-Arabica.
2/ No comparable records are available for the 1973 production of marketed corn in the regions.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture - Bureau of Statistics
"Resultats du Recencement Agricole 1972/73 Pour le Congo," UNDP/FAO, Rome, 1977.
Mission estimates.



- 41*-                                     ANNEX 1
TABLE 10
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC ')F THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Farmgate Prices of Selected Cash Crops, 1973-81
(CFAF/Kg)
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Cacao
Superior            85       85      100      100      130     180      200      220      220
Current              70      70       80       80      120      130     140      160      154
Marginal             55      55       65       65       90      100     100      110      110
Sub-standard        30       30       30       30       40       50      50       60       55
Coffee
Robustic            60       60       70       70       90      120     150      170      172
Arabica              70      70       80       80      100      130      160     180      184
Cherries            45       45       50       50       65       80     100      120      120
Rice paddy             21       25      25       25       30       30       40       45      50
Corn                   --      --       --       20       30       30       43       43      47
Tabac
1st category       125      140      150      150      150      150     170      170      178
2nd category        80       90      100      100      100      100     115      115      121
3rd category        40       45       55       55       55      55       60       60       63
Source: Caisse de stabilisation des prix des produits agricoles
Mission estimates, May 1981.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 11
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Vehicle Operating Cost Per Km
(1979 prices net of taxes)
Road Type         Paved       Gravel Roads            Earth Roads
Vehicle t                 Roads      in Good Condition       in Fair Condition        Tracks
Land Rover
P.U. 109 Diesel       105.8            126.6                193.1                 237.7
Trucks 8 tons         192.8            248.3                332.5                 422.0
Source: Update of BCEOM study of vehicle operating cost, RNTP, July 1979.



- 43 -                                                                ANNEX I
TABLE 12
PEOPIE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PIOJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL SEPORT
Economic Rate of Retorn for Pool and Covette Regions, 1983-1991
(in million CFAF in late 1981 price-)
…-P  Of  L    R E G I O N   -----…
Regravelling of about 200 km                                                      Spot Rehabilitation and Sobsequent Maintenance
(Kinkala-Mindouli-Kindamba Road)                                                                         of 1,1I0 km
_  ..erating Costs                 Benefits                                                Operating Gosts                            Benefits
Yea    Eq.ip-.t             ~~Dir-tly Related   Cash Crop          VOC       Equipment           Spot            Routine       Di.tyRlt                 o       Cash CroF
v   Year   Eqo ipentC   Regr ave g L1ing    Technical        R-e venues a  SavTingis Co             Rehab ili tat ion   M     tintne         TethRical         Sa vin gs Rev
Cost                           Asftac            Recouped                                            t.. M..t ..                Assistance                    Recoped-
1983                                            --               --            --           --              --               --                  -- __  __
1984        399             82                   6                3            13         536               88               35                  12                68          6
t              1985         --            143                  11                 5           49           --              175               70                  17              197          12
1986         --            143                  --                8           110       (-182)              --               70                  --              260          18
1987     (-200)             --                  __               10           130           __              __               70                  __              260          24
L988         __             __                 __                13           195          __               __               70                  __              260          30
1989         ---            __                 __                15           195           __              __               70                  __              260          36
1990         __             __                 __                18           195           __              __               70                  __              260          42
1991         __             __                  --               18           195          __               __               70                  __              260          42
ERR = 17%                                                                                   EER = 25%
Overall EER in the Pool region including directly related technical assistance: 21%
…-   -    -    -    -                                                           --       -     -   - - - - - - -C  U V   E   T  T    E  G  I 0    N
Regravelling of about 200 km (Makoua-Etoumbi-Kelle Road)
and Spot Rehabilitation and Subseqoent Maintenance of 700 km
Operating Costs                                                           Benefits
Year   Eqoipnent            Spot         Regravelling        Rautine       Directly  Related   Can Crop          VOC Savings            VOC SavinBs
Cost      Rehabilitation    (70 km/year)   Maintenance  A| sistan-c                   Recouped     Regravelled Road   Reopened to Traffic
1983        --              --                 __              __        t         __
1984       560             125                 --              13                  18                 5                --                    90
1985        --               70                82              34                  28                 9                20                   190
1986        __              __                143              34                  --               14                 62                   201
1987        __              __                143              34                  -                18                108                   201
1988    (-236)              ----                               34                  --22                               197                   201
1989        ---                                 -34                                --27                               197                   201
1990                                                           34                                   32                197                   201
1991        ---                                 -34                                --36                               197                   201
ERR =29%
Ove-mil ERR for the Project with directly related technical assistance: 24%
Overall ERR for the Project inc-uding all technical assistance: 16%
-   Divisian of cash crop revenues recouped between spot rehabilitation and  -egravelling on basis of indicative 70/30 split.
HHansen/bk
6/28/82



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1982               1983                 1984                  1985                  1986
2    3    4    1 2         3    4     1    2    3    4                 3    4    1    2    3    4
Effectiveness       143
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                     04-        Project Implementation Period
TRAINING
COMPLETION OF TRAINING CENTER           _   _
(GOVERNMENT FINANCED)
CONSULTANTS' SERVICES (TRAINING)                                                                                   -
Contracts
H IGHWAY MAI NTENANCE                                         Signed               Delivery
EQUIPMENT FOR HIGHWAY MAINTAINANCE                              t
EXECUTION OF HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE
PROGRAM
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
CONSTRUCTION AND EXTENSION OF
WORKSHOPS (GOVERNMENT FINANCED)
CONSULTANTS SERVICES (WORKSHOPS)                                                                   .          _
World Bank-23292



- 4,5 -
ANNEX 3
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. General Reports
1. "Couts des transports routiers". Actualisation de 1'etude BCEOM - RNTP,
juillet 1979.
2. Note sur le financement de l'entretien routier par le fonds routier, RNTP,
juillet 1979.
3. Resultats du recencement Agricole 1972/73 pour le Congo, FAO, Rome, 1977.
B.  Reports and Studies Relating to the Projiect
1. "Etude Diagnostique de la Formation du Personnel d'Entretien Routier, "
BCEOM, November 1980.
2. "Etude Diagnostique du Materiel de l'Entretien Routier", BCEOM,
December 1980.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF RNTP
DIRECTOR GENERAL
STUDIES                                                                        TRANSPORT       SOILS AND  I      -
CONTROL      ADMINISTRATION    CIVILWORKS         ROAD          EQUIPMENT      PRODUCTION      MATERIALS 
PLANNING        FINANCES                       MAINTENANCE                        UNITS        LABORATORY
REGIONAL DIRECTORATES
LIKOUALA     BOUENZA
SANGHA       LEKOUMOU
CUVETTE      NIARI
PLATEAUX     KOUILLOU
POOL
World Bank  23307



_________________                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  16087
N"  E                                                                                                                    N       ~      , (NTORRR NRA' p
N"                                                        /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Cr00  "''               '""           '0~~~~~~~~~~44
U
T, 'k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
L  _______________________________________________f
N               L~~~~AMEPNCEON               ' ~          ~ ~ ~ OPE' REUBLC FACNG
rI                                                                            St,50AII&ON DIRECTORATES/ PITT E
REGIONAL 01F~~CTORATZ ;f
IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
"'NJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REINLCPTI
NL E           E- u            ' oA
N  "N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIAI  IAE  AII
R                                                                          PAIMAR~~~~~~ SCADS, C-FIAVEL  SARTH~~~~~~~~~~N
NB'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~EODAIRAS  AI
'-N'-"                                 "N                "'~~~~~~~~~~~~H PW I
N                                                    (-~~~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Nl~R  //iE
-~~~~~~  Of';  EN'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EGOA BOUNDARIE
Nk-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
/      N-  "'N'   ENONNN        -IRNTINA  ~UNARES
N                                             /   6                 5'--'        '9'LE 



