FILE COPY 
Document of                              F     C
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3428-COB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$12.7 MILLION
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
December 2, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          -               CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                                CFAF 340 1/
CFAF 1 million         -               US$2,941
FISCAL YEAR
January 1       -        December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ATC      -    Trans-Congolese Agency for Communications
(Agence Transcongolaise des Communications)
BCEOM    -    French Consultants
(Bureau Central d'Etudes pour l'Equipment d'Outre-Mer)
DCM      -    Central Directorate of Equipment
(Direction Centrale du Materiel)
MTAC     -    Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
(Ministere des Transports et de l'Aviation Civile)
MTPC     -    Ministry of Public Works, Construction, Urban Affairs and
Housing (Ministere de Travaux Publics et de la Construction, de
l'Urbanisme et de L'habitat)
RNTP     -    National Administration of Public Works (Regie Nationale des
Transport et des Travaux Public)
1/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) at the ratio
of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is presently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        People's Republic of the Congo
Amount:          US$12.7 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee of US$0.2 million.
Terms:            17 years, including four years of grace at an annual interest
rate of 11.6 percent
Project           The main objective of the project is to increase the capacity
Description       of RNTP to carry out efficient road rehabilitation and
maintenance operations as required and thereby help to
increase economic activity in two pilot regions of Congo by
improving highway access and reducing transport costs as
rapidly as possible.
The project would consist of three components to be imple-
mented over a 31/2year implenentation period: (i) road main-
tenance equipment and workshop improvements to support a
highway rehabilitation and maintenance program for unpaved
roads in the two pilot regions; (ii) technical assistance
(242 months of consulting services) for the training of
training instructors, as well as management, maintenance and
workshop personnel; and (iii) technical assistance to help
improve highway planning and to develop the local construc-
tion industry (38 months). Preparation of equipment lists
and identification of training needs funded under PPF No.
P-136COB would be refinanced by the Project.
Benefits
and Risks:       The main benefits of the proposed project would be to
increase Congo's road maintenance management capacity, and
help increase agricultural production in two important
regions of the country by reducing transport costs to road
users.
The project's main risk would be lower productivity of
maintenance brigades than anticipated due to an insufficient
number of skilled personnel. To mitigate this risk, the
Government and Bank have agreed upon the detailed staff
requirements for training and maintenance operations in the
pilot regions and the Government has committed itself to
making available the required personnel. In addition, the
project includes provisions for technical assistance to
supervise operation of these brigades.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
US$ million
Local         Foreign       Total
Road Maintenance Equipment
and Workshop Improvements                        4.8           8.0         12.8
Technical Assistance for Road Maintenance          0.8           3.4          4.2
Technical Assistance for Road Planning             0.1           0.5          0.6
and Local Construction Industry
Refinancing of PPF No. P-136COB                    --            0.1          0.1
Total Base Costs                 5.7           12.0         17.7
Price Contingencies              0.7            1.3          2.0
Front-end Fee                    --             0.2          0.2
Total Project Costs
(including US$3.5 million
of local taxes)                            6.4           13.5         19.9
Total project Cost
excluding taxes                            2.9           13.5         16.4
Financing Plan:                                              US$ million
Local       Foreign       Total
IBRD                                                             12.7          12.7
Government                                         6.4            0.8          7.2
Total                                     6.4            13.5         19.9
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
FY 84   FY 85   FY 86    FY 87
Annual                                  1.5      4.6      5.7       0.9
Cumulative                              1.5      6.1    11.8       12.7
Economic Rate of Return: 24 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 3702-COB of November 16, 1982
IBRD 16087



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of the Congo for the equivalent of US$12.7 million to
help finance a Third Highway Project. The IBRD loan would have a term of 17
years, including four years of grace, at an annual interest rate of 11.6
percent. The Government would contribute US$7.2 million equivalent to the
project to cover local costs and a small portion of foreign exchange required
for construction of buildings.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report entitled "People's Republic of the Congo-
Economic Trends, Current Issues, and Prospects" (Report No. 2213-COB) was
distributed to the Board on June 8, 1979. Its conclusions and the findings of
more recent economic missions are integrated into this report.
Structure and Potential
3.       With a population of about 1.6 million (1981 estimate) over an area
of about 340,000 km2, the Congo occupies a strategic position on a transport
corridor that reaches into Central Africa and provides access to the Atlantic
Ocean at the country's second largest city, Pointe Noire. Congo is prominent
in Africa for its high urbanization (50 percent of the population) and high
school enrollment at all levels. The growth of per capita GNP, which was
modest prior to 1972, accelerated with the increase of oil production since
that year and by 1980 had reached about US$900 (estimated by Bank Atlas method).
4.       Until recently, the country has relied for growth on forestry, import
substitution manufacturing, transit and other transport services, and trade.
While agriculture is still the most important sector in terms of employment,
absorbing about 35-40 percent of the economically active population, its share
in the national product has always been small and declining and now directly
accounts for less than 10 percent of GDP. Timber production, which provided
the bulk of exports during the late 1960s and the early 1970s and was a major
stimulant for the transport sector, underwent a temporary decline in the mid-
1970s. Owing to depletion of readily accessible southern forestry resources
and marketing problems, the performance of this sector has not yet recovered
to its previous high level.  During the second half of the 1970s, petroleum
production has become the most important contributor to the economy in terms
of value added. The level of gross value added in mining rose from 3 percent
of GDP in 1972 to more that 35 percent in 1981 (estimate).
. 



-2-
5.       Given a favorable natural resources endowment relative to its size of
population and already high adult literacy and secondary school enrollment
rates, the country's development potential is promising, although there are
numerous basic constraints in the short and medium-term. Agricultural and
northern forestry resources remain largely unexploited. Little is known about
the precise magnitude of the Congo's non-oil mineral wealth, and the petroleum
potential itself is not yet fully explored. The country's river-rail-port
transport system, operated by the Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
(ATC), needs further improvement and expansion to benefit the country as well
as neighboring countries; the rail and river systems are being improved under
ongoing IDA projects (paras. 22 and 27). The country's deteriorated and over-
whelmingly inadequate road network presents major constraints to development
in agriculture and forestry. Rehabilitation and development of transport
infrastructure in the interior, a major Government objective for future
investments, is seen as a means both to improve economic and communication
links between the urban areas and the population of the hinterland, and to
open up what has been the economic backwaters for better exploitation of
available forestry and mineral resources as well as the existing potential for
agriculture.
Past Performance
6.       In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the Government nationalized a
number of important private enterprises, and it engaged in new industrial
ventures financed mainly by suppliers' credits. The public enterprise sector,
with about 65 establishments, is now prominent in modern agriculture,
manufacturing and some services, though petroleum exploitation has been
carried out by two majority foreign-owned companies and private interests are
still active in forestry. The agricultural strategy focused on the promotion
of state farms much to the detriment of private smallholder agriculture.
Private investments (except in the petroleum sector) stagnated following the
progress of nationalization measures, which made investment opportunities in
manufacturing less promising and the future business conditions in general
became uncertain for foreign and domestic private investors. The rapid
expansion of the public sector proved to be much less successful than was
hoped for. Public enterprises did not have enough working capital or skilled
staff to maintain operational efficiency even when projects themselves were
well conceived. Overemployment in these enterprises also contributed to their
financial and operational decline.
7.       In these circumstances, Government financial support of public
enterprises as well as the general expansion of public sector employment, by
the beginning of the 1970s appeared to be leading to an unsustainable rate of
current public expenditure and insufficient allocation of domestic resources
for productive investment. The rise in oil production in 1973/74 together
with the quadrupling of oil prices not only temporarily eased the country's
overall financial situation, but dramatically raised expectations and made
external financing more readily available. Consequently, investment programs
were stepped up in very substantial measure; but even before completion of
some of the major new projects, the country's resource position was suddenly
reversed again. Starting in 1975, extraction problems of the main oil field
brought about a 25 percent drop in crude oil production. As a result of this



- 3 -
and other developments, real GDP fell by an average 2.5 percent a year during
1975-77 and the country entered a period of severe financial crisis.
8.       Although the Government in 1975-78 managed to restrain public
investments, it was not successful in carrying out needed reductions in public
consumption. During this period, treasury deficits averaged about 27 percent
of current revenues, or about 7-8 percent of GDP. After exhausting most
financing sources--including substantial new borrowing from bilateral sources
and the oil companies--additional domestic arrears totaling about 20 billion
CFAF, or 35 percent of budgetary revenues in 1978, were accumulated between
1975-1978. On the external accounts, the situation deteriorated in a similar
degree, with the current account deficit reaching 24 percent of GDP in 1978.
As this could not be covered by external capital or use of reserves, the
equivalent of US$ 65 million stood in arrears for principal and interest by
end-1978.
Stabilization and Recent Developments
9.       A set of financial stabilization measures were undertaken toward
successful implementation of the 1979 IMF Second Tranche Standby Program.
Government's actions included efforts to obtain rescheduling of debt service
obligations, compressing public demand and implementing selective tax
increases. By the end of this one year Standby period, the resurgence of oil
revenues permitted a significant reduction in the accumulated arrears, and
enabled the Government to keep new foreign commercial loans within the limit
agreed in the program while restraining public current expenditures.
10.      The 1979 and 1980 increases in crude oil prices have had a dual
effect on the Congo's resource position. Combined with the renewed growth in
the volume of oil output, the immediate financial consequence was a dramatic
increase of oil export revenues from US$213 million in 1978 to an estimated
US$ 1.0 billion in 1982, resulting in a favorable balance of payments position
and sizeable budgetary revenues. More importantly, higher prices have also
accelerated the exploration and development of deposits previously considered
marginal because of high development costs. Oil companies have been executing
investment plans to develop new fields by about 1983 and available exploration
data suggest that prospects for continued investment in oil production
thereafter remain reasonably favorable. Should this preliminary assessment
prove accurate, oil production from already producing or explored fields alone
could rise steadily until 1985, achieving a level more than double the 1980
output of 3.3 million tons and gradually decreasing thereafter. Consequently,
the country should now be in a much better position to further improve its
overall public sector financial situation and to execute an appropriate public
investment program.
Medium-term Prospects and Investment Program
11.      While the growth in recent years of oil production has notably
accelerated Congo's overall per capita GDP, non-oil per capita GDP over the
last twenty years has increased at less than one percent per year. In the
face of a new, sustained petroleum boom, the major medium and long-term issue
for the Congo is how to transform the proceeds of its oil wealth into higher,



- 4 -
sustained growth of the non-oil economy if it is to avoid substantial
contraction of its national income in the late 1980's. It must both stimulate
growth in the economy's non-oil productive sectors and improve its physical
and social infrastructure in support of that growth, while minimizing if not
eliminating the drain of the public enterprise system on the country's
financial resourses.
12.      A Five-Year Development Plan for 1982-86 has recently been approved
by the Government early in 1982. The overall target for public investments is
set at CFAF 1100 billion ($3.2 billion) implying an average investment rate of
about 43 percent of 1981 GDP, compared with an average rate of 15-20 percent
achieved in the past five years. The Government recognizes, however, that
such a program cannot prudently be financed unless oil revenues turn out
substantially higher than presently foreseen, and that absorptive capacity and
external debt capacity will be major determinants in the setting of realistic
annual targets. Thus, the Plan is essentially of an indicative nature and the
law provides for its annual revision. This is being achieved by preparing
two-year financial programs, which, in particular, are developed in the light
of changes in prospective oil revenues and, in relation to these, of the
implicit future debt charges of new borrowings abroad. Recent discussions
with the Government indicate that these financial programs are being designed
on the basis of realistic assessment of the country's resources and absorptive
capacity.
13.      Regarding the structural composition of the Plan, its principal
thrust is in physical infrastructure, and specifically, in investments outside
the Brazzaville - Pointe Noire urban corridor. The strategy seems to be, in
implicit recognition of the severe short-term limitations on the absorptive
capacity of the commodity producing sectors, to capture the opportunity of the
sudden and perhaps short-lived oil wealth, to set the stage for a desired
reversal of the historic trends of migration to the cities, and for creation
of better economic opportunities for agricultural and other activities in the
more distant regions.
14.      About 60 percent of the indicative Plan investments are allocated to
areas outside the major cities and to projects, mainly roads, to connect the
urban corridor with the large and sparsely populated interior in the north.
Many rural programs for social infrastructure, water, energy and public
administration appear overscaled and lacking economic justification, and would
seem to be at the expense of urban infrastructure and the productive
sectors. About 36 percent of Plan investments are allocated to agriculture,
forestry and industry. Except in forestry, prime emphasis is given to
investments in the state enterprise sector, even though the performance of
that sector has consistently been discouraging. The majority of these
enterprises have suffered chronic operating deficits and none has been able to
finance needed new investments from retained earnings. Programs for the
rehabilitation of public enterprises and creation of new ones are large,
though the plan of action so far seems to consist mainly of a reinjection of
funds, and more concrete measures to reduce over-employment, rationalize
pricing, and improve management and accounting, remain in most cases to be
worked out.



- 5-
Sectoral Development and Policies
15.      Agriculture in the Congo has been neglected by the Government, des-
pite its effort to create and run state enterprises for food and livestock
production. These enterprises have never proved their economic and financial
viability and their continued operations require transfers of public funds for
subsidization. Their operating efficiency has been adversely affected also by
inefficient marketing, again partly administered by state enterprises. At the
same time, the activities of nationalized agro-industrial enterprises and
agricultural production for such industrial activities have seen a dramatic
fall, especially in sugar production. Partly because of these failures, and
partly because of the ready availability of foreign exchange recently, there
appears to have been increasing reliance on imported foodstuffs. The current
Government policies in this sector do not envisage significant departures from
the past, and limited attempts to revitalize smallholder food crop production
and cash crop production, coffee and cocoa, are not yet producing an adequate
impact.
16.      Industrial activities have expanded very modestly, largely owing to
the small domestic market. Exceptions to this are wood processing, textile,
and beverage production where foreign participation plays an important role.
The country possesses a good potential for agro-industrial development based
on locally produced raw materials including forestry resources. Government
policy in these areas is becoming more open than before in accommodating
foreign investments and management contracts needed to supplement yet limited
domestic entrepreneurial and managerial skills. The present favorable
resource prospects of the country could well serve, with appropriate Govern-
ment action, to attract and stimulate investments in domestic resource- based
industries that could over time contribute significantly to export diversifi-
cation out of oil. The growth of smaller and less formal industrial activi-
ties has been very limited as the state enterprise sector had Government
priority, a process that tended to stifle also what limited domestic entrepre-
neurship would have been available. The Government will need to formulate
more specific measures to encourage this sector which also constitutes a key
area for longer-term generation of productive urban employment.
17.      In urban areas, where 80 percent of Congo's GDP originates, improved
infrastructure will be indispensable for the growth of urban-located
productive sectors and their labor force. At present, power distribution,
urban roads, and water and sewerage systems are highly inadequate and partly
derelict. The main constraint at present is lack of institutional capacity to
execute and maintain existing and new facilities.
e         18.       Transport and communications, service and trade activity continues to
account for a significant share of GDP (24 percent in 1980) and major public
investments with assistance from external official agencies were made during
the seventies to maintain and upgrade the system which is now operated by the
Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC). Completion of the CFCO re-
alignment expected in 1984 will result in significant expansion of the Congo's
transportation network. Outside this corridor, however, communications are
very poor. Neglect of road maintenance, for example, has caused difficult
food marketing problems for smallholders in major producing areas not very



-6-
distant from major urban centers. The project proposed in this report is
designed to increase the Government's road maintenance capacity and, given the
uncertainties about the economic justification of proposed future road
sections to be constructed, includes technical assistance for road planning
and design.
Creditworthiness
19.      The Congo's outstanding public external debt (excluding undisbursed)
is estimated to have reached about CFAF 260 billion (or about US$950 million)
by end-1981. The debt service ratio is estimated at about 12 percent for
1982, and is expected after a brief decline to stabilize between 12 and 15
percent in the next five years. External debt service obligations are being
met satisfactorily and there have been improvements in handling these matters
in the Government budgetary process. By the end of May 1982, gross
international reserves were restored to a level of seven weeks equivalent of
goods and non-factor services imports. This is satisfactory given the Congo's
membership in the Central African Monetary Union and the importance of oil
sector imports for which the necessity of official reserves is marginal.
20.      The outlook regarding the future creditworthiness of the country
depends on the assessment of additional future petroleum production from
possible new fields, the Government's ability and willingness to tune develop-
ment programs to changing circumstances, and its performance in managing the
public sector financial affairs. Recent macro-economic discussions with the
Government led to an understanding that the 1983/84 public investment program
should for the time being remain significantly below the indicative targets of
the Plan; that its subsequent expansion should be contingent on an upward
revision of future prospects of oil exports; and that the annual review of the
Government's financing plan should be guided by ceilings on the ratio of
annual debt service to Government current receipts. Pursuance of these
policies would be a major factor towards ensuring the country's long-term
creditworthiness. Given these developments, and in light of the relative
firmness of present projections of oil output and oil revenues from existing
fields, and of the progress to date in again bringing order into the system of
public finances, the country is considered creditworthy for the loan proposed
in this report. The country's prospects, investment performance and overall
creditworthiness will continue to be closely monitored.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE CONGO
21.      The Bank Group's commitments in the Congo now amount to US$149.8
million from three bank loans (US$76 million) and ten IDA credits (US$73.8
million). Ten loans and credits totalling US$89.8 million have been fully
disbursed. Past operations have been designed mainly to assist the country's
efforts to improve its basic transport infrastructure, better exploit its
natural resources, and upgrade the educational system. Rail, river and road
transport represent the largest share of past commitments (61 percent),
followed by mining and petroleum (26 percent). Annex II contains a summary
statement of Loans and Credits as of September 30, 1982, as well as notes on



- 7 -
the execution of ongoing projects. In general, where project implementation
in Congo has incurred difficulties, it has centered around the project's
design, slow or improper procurement and institutional weaknesses of the
entity executing the project. Annual disbursement rates for Congo have shown
a substantial improvement over the last five years and now compare favorably
with other countries. Congo's performance in this regard will remain under
careful review.
22.      In additon to the realignment of the CFCO railway under the Second
Railway Project, where progress is generally satisfactory, ongoing projects
consist of: an education project which focusses on improving the quality of
the educational system and reorienting it to meet the country's human resource
needs; a petroleum technical assistance project to improve sector management,
and a river transport project designed to increase the efficiency and capacity
of river transport services. Project performance audit reports (No. 1563F and
2182) in the transport sector have been issued for the two previous highway
projects. These reports have identified the main weaknesses associated with
these projects as underestimates of technical assistance needs, shortfalls
against traffic forecasts and Government's inability to provide local funds to
meet recurrent cost obligations. Given the country's projected petroleum
revenues and recent increased budgetary commitments to road maintenance, a
shortage of local funds for the Third Highway Project is unlikely. The
provision of technical assistance has been designed both with past experience
in mind and on the basis of consultants' assessments of human resource
requirements for road maintenance. The proposed project clearly identifies
related annual recurrent cost requirements and assurances have been obtained
from the Government that they will be provided.
23.      A technical assistance project is also under preparation which would
help the Government to improve external debt and public finance management and
increase absorptive capacity for productive investments in Congo's major urban
areas. Sector and project identification work are also underway to prepare
the way for Bank support in Congo's key non-oil productive sectors of industry
and agriculture, and in vital infrastructure. With the recent conversion of
the Bank's lending terms from IDA to IBRD, a new country strategy has been
designed which aims to assist the Congo to maintain its creditworthiness and
to transform its growing petroleum revenues into a broad productive base for
sustained economic growth. The Government and the Bank are currently
preparing a wood processing project in northern Congo. Under the project,
exploitation of this abundant natural resource in Congo would encourage export
diversification, promote regional development and help to ensure that the
projected timber traffic for the rail and river transport system materializes
as anticipated. To reinforce the Government's ability to monitor activity in
the sector and increase the benefits to the country derived from log
production and processing, the proposed project would also provide for
continued technical assistance to the sector's institutions which began under
the River Transport Project.
24.      On April 14, 1981, the IFC approved its first loan to the Congo
totalling US$3.5 million to support a US$15.6 million project to modernize the
existing veneer plant of Placongo and to expand its logging capacity. IFC's
investment consists of an "A" loan of US$500,000 convertible at IFC's option



- 8 -
into equity shares of the company and a "B" loan of US$3,000,000. Implemen-
tation of the project is currently delayed as the company has decided to delay
expansion of production capacity until such time as it has been able to
restructure the financing plan. IFC also approved an equity participation in
a promotional company which is currently studying the feasibility of esta-
blishing a pulp mill in Congo. Results in the study are expected to be
available in early 1983.
25.      Throughout 1976-81, gross international public capital inflows
(including debt refinancing and budgetary support) amounted to about US$680
million. At the end of 1981, the outstanding disbursed and undisbursed debt
stood at US$990 million, of which 10.3 percent (US$102 million) was held by
the Bank and IDA. The Bank's and IDA's share in the public debt service is
estimated at 3.5 percent for 1981 and an average 2.5 percent over the 1981-85
period.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
26.      Endowed with navigable rivers and a favorably located seaport on the
Atlantic coast, the Congo has developed an extensive transport system of major
importance to the region comprised of the Central African Republic (CAR),
Cameroon, Gabon and, to a lesser degree, southern Chad. In recent years, more
than three quarters of the freight carried between Brazzaville and Pointe
Noire has been transit traffic, mainly manganese from Gabon, timber from
Cameroon and CAR, and imports to CAR; for most of this traffic the Congo route
provides the only access to the sea. The Transgabonese Railway, now under
construction and likely to be completed in the late 1980s, will be the main
and most advanced alternative route, though it will cater only to Gabonese
traffic.
27.      The Congo's regional transport system includes the ocean port at
Pointe Noire, the river port at Brazzaville, the CFCO railway linking these
two ports (about 510 km) and river transport services on the navigable
sections of the Congo and Oubangui Rivers (about 1,120 km). The Agence
Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC) operates this system and also
provides the river tansport services with its fleet of cargo and passenger
vessels which carry CAR traffic and timber from Cameroon and North Congo. The
CFCO is at present working close to capacity. The realignment to 88 km
between Loubomo and Bilinga, financed by the Bank Group and co-financiers, is
now expected to be completed in 1984, enabling the railway to meet higher
traffic demands in coming years. The River Transport Project, approved in
March, 1982, is designed to help increase river transport capacity and
efficiency and to help achieve an optimal utilization of the railway's
increased capacity.
28.      The Congo has a road network of about 11,000 km.  About 3,000 km are
designed to provide all-weather service (including 600 km of paved roads)
while the remainder are secondary and forestry roads. Roads presently carry
only a small proportion of total traffic (about 70 percent of which is timber)
due largely to their poor condition. The air transport network consists of



-9-
eight airports, of which three have paved runways, and about 20 minor air-
fields. A government-owned company, Lina Congo, provides scheduled domestic
services, and a private company provides charter services.
29.      Transport policy-making and investments are coordinated by the
Ministry of Planning. Their preparation and implementation are the respon-
sibility of two government bodies: the Ministry of Public Works, Construction
Urban Affairs and Housing (MTPC) which, through the Regie Nationale des Trans-
ports et des Travaux Publics (RNTP), is vested with design and execution of
road projects and maintenance of the road network; the Ministry of Transport
and Civil Aviation (MTAC) is responsible for the operations of ATC and the
domestic airline as well as for the preparation and enforcement of transport
policies and inter-modal coordination in these areas.
The Highway Subsector
30.      Sub-sector Planning and Construction.  Overall highway planning is
initiated by the MTPC under the general directives of the Ministry of
Planning. For the 1982-86 plan and the following five years the Government
has outlined a road program as a guide for the improvement and construction of
some 3,800 kn of roads. The continuation of the paving of the road from
Brazzaville to Ouesso and the construction of the Ngo-Djambela-Lekana road
across the Plateau region are among the highest priorities in the program and
are already underway with the help of outside contractors. These road
improvements reflect the Government's long term goals of increasing agricul-
tural production, reducing the rural exodus through regional development, and
national socio-economic integration.
31.      Originally, the Government intended to carry out most of the program
with its own resources under force account brigades managed by the Directorate
of Civil'Works of the RNTP. A Bank mission reviewed the program at the
Government's request and suggested that RNTP substantially reduce the scale of
implementation to be consistent with its capacity and experience and then
retain road construction expertise to help increase its capacity. The Govern-
ment accepted the mission's findings, and in 1982 RNTP expects to field two
brigades for the upgrading and construction of sections having key economic
priority and to subsequently expand these efforts according to the results
achieved. To support this approach, the proposed project contains technical
assistance to help the Government in the detailed planning and economic
evaluation of other sections proposed for construction in its long-term
program. (para. 48).
32.      In addition to RNTP's role in construction of roads, airfields and
sewerage systems, the Government wishes to promote the development of a more
broadly based local construction industry, which is now weak. Only a few
contractors carry out small-scale building construction works for the private
sector; major construction projects are carried out by foreign firms. There
is no contractors' association, and the Government has not encouraged its
development in the past. However, particularly with the growing demand for
civil works construction, the Government wants to devise policies and means to
encourage greater participation of domestic contractors in national construc-
tion activities. Thus the project includes technical assistance to examine



- 10 -
the potential and prepare proposals for the development of the local
construction industry (para. 48).
33.      RNTP Organization and Maintenance Operations.  RNTP is an agency of
the MTPC and is charged with the maintenance and improvement of the road
network. Its operations are carried out by nine Regional Directorates and six
subdivisions under the direction of the Central Directorates located in
Brazzaville. The organization comprises a Directorate of Road Maintenance and
a Directorate of Equipment, which carry out maintenance operations, and a
Directorate of Civil Works which executes improvements to infrastructure.
Programming of operations, supervision of works and technical studies are done
by other Central Directorates. Regional workshops are guided by the Central
Directorate of Equipment (DCM), but they are too poorly equipped and staffed
to adequately carry out the activities for which they were intended.
34.      RNTP incorporates both mechanized work units and labor intensive
operations. Manual road maintenance is done by crews in charge of road
sections which are on average 170 km long. Manual patching of asphalt paved
roads is done by RNTP. With improved prospects for an increase in RNTP's
revenues (para. 37), the organization intends to carry out the overdue
resurfacing of the paved roads with its own funds.
35.      The overall status of the existing fleet of maintenance equipment is
poor. As of 1980, consultants BCEOM found that only 20 percent of the fleet
was in working order, 25 percent needed repair and 55 percent was irrepar-
able. This is due to insufficiently skilled staff and a lack of funds for
recurrent expenditures which has also caused a slowdown in road maintenance
operations and the subsequent general deterioration of the network. In 1980-
81, RNTP ordered equipment for road construction and maintenance totalling
some $30 million. The maintenance equipment, which amounts to about $11 mil-
lion, will be allocated to local authorities for use on local roads and to the
Directorate of Road Maintenance for regional operations outside the project's
pilot areas where there are substantial needs for emergency reopenings of
roads which are virtually impassable and rapidly destroy transport vehicles.
The proposed project which includes equipment and provisions to help reinstate
routine and periodic maintenance of earth and gravel roads, will focus on two
other high priority pilot regions (paras. 40-41).
36.      Staffing and Training.  RNTP has a staff of about 1,600 of which
1,000 are directly engaged in maintenance operations and about 100 work for
the Directorate of Equipment and its workshop in Brazzaville. All management
personnel in the RNTP are Congolese and are assisted by some technical assis-
tance personnel.  The higher functions in the organization are generally
staffed with young and well qualified personnel, but there is an insufficient
number of qualified medium-level personnel. In some categories, only 50
percent of the positions are filled and overall only about half of the staff
in place is fully qualified. In the DCM, about half the staff needed to reha-
bilitate the major equipment is in place and among these only 15 percent are
fully qualified for the positions they occupy. Consultants BCEOM have
provided the Government with a detailed list of staff needs and have made
recommendations for job descriptions by levels of skills in each category and
for development programs for the personnel of the maintenance brigades. The



results of the study were discussed with the Bank which endorsed its-findings
and recommendations. The Government, aware of the urgent need for staff
training which does not effectively exist at present, is constructing a
training center in Brazzaville with its own funds and is seeking assistance
under the proposed project to initiate training to meet RNTP's requirements
(paras. 43-44). The personnel trained under this program would be expected to
lead within 2-3 years to more efficient use of equipment, first in the pilot
regions, and later in the other regions of the country.
37.      Financing and Accounting.  RNTP activities are financed through the
Government's investment budget, the current budget, a Special Fund replenished
with revenues from taxes on gasoline and logs, and the earnings from transport
and other goods and services provided. Operating expenses have been of the
order of CFAF 1.5 billion a year and almost fully used to pay salaries, with
little left for investment or materials and other inputs to carry out work.
The overall problem of financing road maintenance activities has largely
subsided given the increasing priority accorded by the Government to
maintenance and the substantial increase in petroleum revenues. The 1982
budget, for example, allocates funds amounting to almost threefold the level
of 1981 expenditures. Assurances have nevertheless been obtained from the
Government that sufficient funds will be available to finance all required
highway maintenance expenditures (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement)
and specific annual amounts agreed upon to meet the proposed project's
recurrent costs.
38.      The RNTP has a central accounting office in Brazzaville which manages
the operating budget. All transactions are supervised and approved by the
Government Comptroller and are executed through the Treasury, with the
exception of the Special Fund which is handled through a commercial bank.
Given the increased activity in the roads subsector and an anticipated
shortage of qualified bookkeepers and accountants, this sytem is currently
under review. Correspondingly, the training program to be financed under the
proposed project includes training to increase skills available for book-
keepers and accountants.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.      The poor access between Congo's rural and urban areas, stagnating
agricultural production and inadequate road maintenance operations make the
proposed project a high priority in the lending program. It has been designed
with limited objectives, aimed at high priority institutional and operational
improvements which are consistent with past experience in Congo and present
circumstances. The project was prepared through the cooperation of RNTP,
consultants and Bank staff. The first mission to consider the project,
following suspension of project preparation in 1977 due to public finance
considerations, was in October 1979; it was appraised in April 1981.
Negotiations were held in Washington on April 13-14, 1982. The Congolese
delegation was led by Mr. Oball Mond, Attache to the Minister of Finance. Key
events and special conditions are listed in Annex III. The Staff Appraisal



- 12 2
Report (No. 3702-COB of November 16, 1982) is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors.
Project Description
40.      The main objective of the proposed project is to increase the capa-
city of RNTP to carry out efficient road rehabilitation and maintenance
operations as required, by executing pilot operations in two regions of Congo
and by increasing qualified staff, thereby helping to increase economic acti-
vity in these regions by improving highway access and reducing transport
costs. The project would complement the aims of the realignment of the CFCO
by increasing road access in the Pool region to the railway. The project
would consist of three components over a 31/2year implementation period: (i)
road maintenance equipment and workshop improvements to support a highway
rehabilitation and maintenance program for unpaved roads in two pilot regions;
(ii) technical assistance to RNTP for the training of training instructors, as
well as of management, maintenance and workshop personnel; and (iii) techni-
cal assistance for highway planning and development of the local construction
industry. Preparation of equipment lists and identification of training needs
funded under PPF No. P-136 COB would also be refinanced by the Loan.
41.      Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance.  The Government, in agreement
with the Bank, has selected the Pool and Cuvette as pilot regions because of
their agricultural potential and to maintain regional balance between invest-
ments in the north and south. In those regions, highway maintenance programs
acceptable to the Bank have been agreed upon (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement) and would consist of spot rehabilitation (2400 km) of the
classified network, regravelling of the roads (about 300 km) serving the cash
crop producing areas, and subsequent routine maintenance. To ensure proper
execution of these programs, the proposed loan would finance road maintenance
equipment, additional mechanical workshop facilities and equipment for soils
and materials testing. The administrative and technical experience gained in
the pilot regions and the comprehensive training program would then enable
similar procedures and programs to be introduced in the other regions.
42.      The Pool region would receive under the proposed project two grading
units, one regravelling unit, one intervention unit for spot rehabilitation
and vehicles for manual maintenance groups. This equipment should be adequate
to maintain the classified road network serving the major population clusters
in the region. While the equipment needs of the Cuvette region are greater
than in the Pool, the shortage of qualified personnel to handle it limits the
number of brigades to be established there to one grading unit and one regra-
velling unit which could perform either spot rehabilitation or regravelling
along with the vehicles serving the labor intensive brigades. Spare parts for
repairs and for equipment maintenance are also to be financed under the
project.
43.      To assure timely repair of the equipment, new workshops would be
constructed and existing workshops would be modified or extended. Under the
project, the Central Workshop of the DCM in Brazzaville would be improved and
extended, and the partly-built workshops in Kindambe (Pool Region) and Makoua
(Cuvette Region) would be completed. A list of workshop equipment to be



- 13 -
financed by the project for the pilot regions and the central workshop has
been prepared by consultants financed under the PPF and accepted by the Bank.
44.      To test whether lateritic materials from roadside quarries are
suitable for resurfacing purposes, the project also would include the
provision of soil and materials testing equipment for the field units.
45.      Training.  To increase the number of qualified maintenance staff, the
RNTP intends to establish and operate a permanent training center in Brazza-
ville. Construction of this center is underway and expected to be completed
in March 1983. The Government has made available CFAF 300 million from its
own funds for construction of three classrooms, one large workshop, one
smaller workshop and one storage room. Temporary facilities have been
identified so that the training can take place in the interim.
46.      The project would assist the start-up of the school by financing one
training advisor (29 months of consultant services) and two instructors (29
months each) who would prepare courses, give instruction and, above all, train
Congolese staff to take over the training advisory position at the end of the
21/2years stay of the consultants. The duration of courses would vary from
one week refresher courses for equipment operators to seven months extensive
training of mechanical workshop chiefs. Overall, 400 persons would receive
refresher and specialized training during project implementation for positions
in the RNTP.
47.      To help the DCM to improve its management of road maintenance oper-
ations, the project would provide consulting services to reinforce the
mechanical workshops. The following would be financed under terms of
reference agreed at negotiations: an adviser to the Director of DCM (29
months); an adviser to the Chief of the heavy equipment workshop (29 months);
an adviser to the Chief of the vehicle workshop (29 months); an adviser to the
Chief Accountant (10 months); and two advisers to itinerant mechanical inspec-
tors (29 months each). The signing of contracts for these and for the
training consultants would be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan
(Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.      Highway planning and construction industry development.  Further
technical assistance is included in the project to assist the RNTP to carry
out detailed highway planning studies (20 months) and to help formulate and
implement recommendations for the development of the local construction
industry (18 months).
49.      Project Implementation and Reporting.  The RNTP would have overall
responsibility for implementing the project. The agreed road maintenance
program for the pilot regions would be implemented by the Regional Direc-
torates of the Pool and the Cuvette under the supervision of the Directorate
of Road Maintenance.
50.      For the time being, RNTP's Directorate of Administration and
Personnel would be responsible for the implementation of the training
program. The Government has recently decided, however, to establish a Direc-
torate for Personnel Training within RNTP to which this responsibility would
be transferred in the course of project implementation.



- 14 -
51.      The Directorate of Equipment would have direct responsibility for the
procurement of equipment for road maintenance and for the workshops. It would
also plan and manage the construction or extension of workshop buildings. The
national laboratory for public works would be in charge of procuring the
equipment for the testing of soils and materials and would assist the pilot
regions in carrying out the testing.
52.      Agreement has been reached with the Government on the detailed
staffing requirements in the two pilot regions and assurances obtained that
they will be met with qualified personnel. The road rehabilitation and main-
tenance program in the pilot regions agreed upon during negotiations would be
updated through annual programs which would be sent to the Bank for review and
comments.
Project Cost
53.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$19.9 million, of
which foreign costs would amount to US$13.5 million including US$0.2 million
for the front-end fee which has been capitalized. Taxes and duties represent
US$3.5 million of local costs totalling US$6.4 million. The cost estimate for
consulting services is based on 340 months of services at $12,300 per month
including fees, subsistence and international travel. Since the project would
finance a time slice of the rehabilitation and maintenance program in the two
pilot regions, the cost estimate does not include any physical contingency.
Price contingencies for both foreign and local costs have been calculated at
7.5 percent per annum for 1983-85 and account for 11.2 percent of total
project costs over the implementation period. The cost of operating the Bank-
financed equipment is estimated at US$5.0 million over 1983-86.
Financing Plan
54.      The proposed loan of US$12.7 million would finance the foreign
exchange component, other than for buildings, or 64 percent of total project
costs. The Government would finance all local costs and the foreign costs for
buildings, totalling about US$7.2 million equivalent and including US$3.5
million for taxes. The Government would also contribute a minimum of CFAF
1,700 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) over the project implementation
period to cover the operating costs of the road maintenance brigades. Due to
the high priority accorded by the Government to rapidly initiating training
and technical assistance for the workshops, the project would include a provi-
sion for retroactive financing up to a maximum of US$400,000 to enable early
recruitment of the relevant consultants.
55.      Procurement and Disbursement.  Contracts for the highway maintenance
equipment, workshop equipment and for an initial stock of spare parts total-
ling US$11.4 million would be awarded under international competitive bidding
procedures following the Bank's guidelines. Proprietary spare parts could be
purchased from the original supplier and non-proprietary spares through ICB,
limited international tendering (LIT), LCB or local shopping to a total value
of US$200,000 equivalent. Contracts for soils and materials testing equipment
would be awarded after LIT since the number of suppliers for this very specia-
lized equipment is limited. The Bank would review and approve the invitations



- 15 -
to bid, proposed awards and draft contracts for equipment and spare parts
amounting to US$100,000 equivalent or more. Terms of reference, qualifica-
tions and contracts for consulting services would be subject to approval by
the Bank.
56.      The proposed loan would be disbursed against the total foreign
exchange costs of equipment for road maintenance, workshops and soils
laboratories and of spare parts (or 63 percent of expenditures if procured
locally), 81 percent of total consulting services costs and 100 percent of
disbursements under PPF No. P136-COB. Disbursements from the loan account
would be fully documented. RNTP's accounts for all training activities and
road maintenance and workshop operations in the two pilot regions would be
subject to independent audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
57.      Economic Evaluation.  Since 1973, the production of cash crops in the
Pool and Cuvette regions has declined steadily, by as much as 12 percent per
annum for rice, 7 percent for tobacco, 7 percent for coffee, and 3 percent for
cocoa. Moreover, while domestic production of rice was shrinking, Congo
became a heavy importer of grain. A special IBRD/FAO identification mission
report of 1979 confirmed that the deterioration of the roads and the conse-
quent effects on farm-to-market access, was one of the most immediate causes
for the decline in agricultural production. The proposed project seeks to
help restore this production for the benefit of producers and consumers, by
increasing market access and reducing transport costs to road users who
include marketing agencies collecting such products.
58.       The economic evaluation of the project compared the direct project
benefits and costs with the no-project alternative. The project would yield
an estimated overall economic rate of return of 24 percent. The overall rates
of return for project activities in the Cuvette region is about 29 percent and
for the Pool region about 21 percent. Quantified benefits are (a) vehicle
operations cost savings (92% of benefits) and (b) the value of incremental
agricultural production (8% of benefits). The project costs are calculated
net of taxes and comprise the cost of equipment, annual recurrent operating
costs of related maintenance operations (both rehabilitation/regravelling and
subsequent routine maintenance) in the two pilot regions and costs directly
related to technical assistance. To improve the reliability of economic
evaluations for similar operations elsewhere in the country, RNTP would submit
by September 30, 1983 for the Bank's review and comment a program of traffic
counts for its national highway network and a set of procedures for monitoring
the productivity of rehabilitation and regravelling brigades (Section 4.05 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
59.      Project Sensitivity and Risks.  Preparation of the proposed project
was initiated in 1976 and thereafter suspended due to a general lack of
Government counterpart funds. In the past, inadequate financing for road
maintenance has been a major constraint on operations. With the increased
public revenues from petroleum production, now the risk is low that project
objectives will not be met because of lack of counterpart financing or
insufficient funds to cover recurrent costs. A greater risk lies behind the
level of productivity of maintenance brigades due to possible lack of staff or
inadequate organization. Should productivity fall substantially below that



- 16 -
anticipated at the time of appraisal, the economic rate of return would be
lower than anticipated; with a 25 percent lower than expected productivity of
the rehabilitation and regravelling brigades, resulting in fewer road sections
being improved each year at a higher cost per kilometer, the project rate of
return would be 19 percent, including the cost of directly related technical
cooperation. Past experience in general with training has also reflected a
risk that an insufficient number of qualified staff are made available for
training. In order to minimize these risks, the project includes a strong
technical assistance component for which preparations are well advanced. In
particular, consultants would be recruited in advance of initial training to
help select candidates.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.      The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of the Congo
and the World Bank and Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being circulated to the
Executive Directors separately.
61.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A condition of Loan effectiveness would be the signing of contracts for
services of the project's training and workshop consultants.
62.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 2, 1982



ANNEX I
-17 -                                                    Page 1 of 7 pages
Page I
TABLE 3A
CONGO, PEOPLES REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CONGO, PEOPLES REP.              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             342.O                                  MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      106.7              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  260.0        370.0      900.0                1053.2                   1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      120.2        162.0      194.9                 610.1                    713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   950.0        1208.0    1605.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.5          38.3      45.0                   28.3                     47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         3.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          10.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         2.8          3.5       4.5                  54.7                      35.8
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       8.9         11.4      14.6                 129.9                     420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.0         42.2      43.5                  46.0                      44.3
15-64 YRS.                          55.8         54.6      53.3                  51.1                      52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2          3.2       3.3                   2.8                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          2.4       2.8                   2.8                       2.8
URBAN                               7.2          5.0       4.5                   5.2                       4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      40.2         41.3      42.3                   47.2                     41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      18.2         15.8       10.4                  15.7                     12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.6          2.8        2.9                   3.2                      2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           94.0        100.0      78.0                  90.7                     100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    97.5         96.2      99.1/c                93.9                    108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           35.6         35.4      40.4/c                54.8                      71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        15.3         14.2      13.8/c                17.0                      18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      38.8         33.0      26.7                   23.9                     15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.7           53.7      59.3                  51.0                      56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           171.3        151.3     129.3                  118.5                    104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         27.0      17.C/d                  ..                      59.1
URBAN                                ..         63.0      40.C/r                   .                      83.1
RURAL                                ..          6.0       D.O/d .d                                       39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOrAL                                ..          6.0       9.0/e
URBAN                                ..          8.0      lO.c/.
RURAL                                ..          6.0       9.0/i.
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          16101.7      11071.4    7468.4/d             14185.2                    4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1297.3/f      897.9     597.7/d              2213.2                    1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
r                     TOTAL                             255.9/f      229.7/_   205.3/d               1036.4                    641.7
URBAN                             203.37f      298.27j   292.5/-i              430.8                     538.3
RURAL                             228.6/?      205.0/1   173.4/d              3678.6                    2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        22.8/1       ..                    ..                     25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.5           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..       5.5/h
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.7           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                               4.0/i         ..       1.8/h
RURAL                                ..           ..



ANNEX I
- 18-                                                Page 2 of 7 pages
Page 2
TABLE 3A
CONGO, PEOPLES REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CONGO, PEOPLES REP.             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 78.0        130.0     156.0                   83.3                     88.7
MALE                 103.0       147.0      163.0                  96.1                    104.5
FEMALE                53.0       114.0      148.0                  80.4                     72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  4.0         20.0      69.0                   15.3                     39.7
MALE                   6.0        28.0       85.0                  19.4                     49.3
FEMALE                 2.0        12.0       53.0                  11.3                     29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 27.8            9.8        6.4                   4.7                     10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            52.7         61.9       52.5                  38.6                     34.1
SECONDARY                          20.1         33.0      40.3                   23.4                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.6        50.0         ..                  35.6                     43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         47.3         12.4       14.1/d                31.9                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.6         53.8      59.1                   71.8                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1          1.5        2.1                  17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    1.1         0.7         ..                  19.1                     31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       0.9                   0.6                      1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       366.1        436.5      547.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   36.1         35.4      36.8                   36.5                     10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              52.0         42.0       34.0                  56.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 17.0         21.0      26.0                   17.7                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 38.5        36.1       34.1                  37.0                     26.0
MALE                                  50.2        47.5       44.5                  46.9                     46.2
FEMALE                                27.3        25.2       24.3                  27.2                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1         1.3        1.4                   1.3                      1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                 507.0                    279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                 200.6                    178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                 523.9                    403.6
RURAL                                .,           ..      190.0                 203.6                    285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                    ..                     22.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                    ..                     30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /I  1975; /f 1962; /S 1972; /h 1974; /i Data for City of Pointe-Noire only, for 1958.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
- 19 -                                                                           Page 3 of 7 pages
DKFIITICUS OF SOCIA  ICICAIOS
letum:  A1the.gb th  data are dres  free sources generalIly Judged th  ant antbhrlttlve and reliable. It should also be noted Ibhn tbey -y not be iLer-
atrismally cossrsblo because of the lack of stnderdLeed deflinioio and conce pts need by different                        L.nrleS collecting  lbs data.  The desto . ens
th.lma. aseful to descrbe orders of sageitode, idicate trends, end ctarooer-lee cetain major dlifferencee iteneeuoutrie..
Thet rferenc  groups ate (I) tha some cuontoy group of ths subject coun try end (2) a counry grou.p cLtb sosshta  higher ovrage Income th   tbe coun..try gtroop
of  hc sbject cuontry (oucept fur   "Higb Inoum          011  portters. group otters "Middle Ioose North AfrIca and Middle Sean" ie  hbee   because of elounger
-o-lg-oola  offJtit le).  In the reference Stoop dale lb  o ege   t population soli ttd  -titheeti  means fur each Ludloetr end eb-  only  hbey
_ajority oflbs couotcrioa In a group bee deco f or thot ldhicotu.  Since tbe covrag  of ceoutries oson  lbs iedlcetor  depends on tbo evaLobility of data
end is nout eclf0rm. cooigo coo  be onoocised In rootbg averges of one indi.caor no aotbhr.  Th..-.. avrges are only ...fu1 in copeting tbo valu  of
one indicator at a im e g lbs cuuu..try end  ref .e.c gups.
ASIA (tbhoseod sq.ke.)                                                                            upui!lelu   o   or lSd-ttl   ra,odrrl-Pplto    ttl
Itona  - Total surfac  area oprieog tend area and Inland eaters; 1979 data.                      orbn  and total)dtiv,Idedd by  boiri epotv  nuober of huspite1 bode
AarScolturol -Eftistl  of agrloul1t-l area uend ntporrily or pormnotly                           avaIlable So poblic end pric-te general and spoclallood bospical endre
fer crops. postu.res. srktc and kitchen ge-deu  or to lIe. fallec; 1979 dots.                   hsLILtetiocco    Hre.SoPitols or  encbliobmeots Per=urtly steffed
by an les uset.. pbyslcoia. Isttbliabsoota providing pricpally ousfo.-
GNP PER CAPITA (Us)) - GNP Pot capita saItsa  tretsrkt polc.s. ..al-                               dial cor  arenun!inclded.  tols bosPitela, hooso, Include bra1tb
cuieted by sescnvrion method en gord BnAta11978-80 basis); 1960,                                 ad ma tol  vnr  ot prmaently acaffed by a physIcian  (but by
170, ad t10dc.                                                                                  medIcal ..ssietont.  Los mdoife,  tc.) skIh offer In-patIent -cum
datLoo and prevido a limited range of radical facIlIties. frF,scotir-
ENERGY CoNSUMPTIOO ff5 CAPITA - Anneal coeeumptio  of cuecio1 enrgy (coal                          tical porpoasa urbs  honpitls ieclude WHOg. pricciyol/geora  iepLtals.
eud ilgeite, penroloon, oatu...  gas and bydro-... nuclea  anod geetherse   o-                   enod cral. hospitala, local ur trel. hepLtals and sedica1 and mataroily
tr St) 10 kilograma of.cal.q.         vlcpor capita; 1960. 1970, uad 19719                       coolers.  tpeoielised hompittol  are inoindod only under total.
t                    ~~~~~~~deco.t                                                                                   Admianios pe rgospltall BBedd - Total ousbor of odnionlen  to or dlsobarg..
from hosPitals divided by tbo uuedcer of bade.
Totl  oouolou.Mi-Tot  tbunads  -An of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 19800                0US1NG
daa                                                                                          Average Sire uf gnumebold (ono   po  hushld) -ttl   co,edrrl
Urban Piopolotion(ooto  ttl    Ratio of urba  to total population;                               A hoabd                    (paa    fegrou  oidlvlua_  it;U or  Ilvng -uarer
differen.t defLniln  of orbn areas say offeot toupacobilfty of data                            end Ibeir maio  el.      A  ore   r  ogrsy  rmyul  eio e  in
=agooere;1960, 1970. end 1980 date.                                                             lbs bo..s.buld for stotlatioel puopomem.
fuuato  Pr.jcti..s                                                                         Averag  outer uf rar..o pe ctroom - local, oct00  end rual-acrags.0
Populetioe in year 2000 - Cu-rret PoPulation PruJoCtiouc arer based 00 1980                    bar of Por..s wPer room in all urbao, aud rural occupied conventInL..I
total population by ego end son Aud their martality and fertilitYrae.dlio. rspoctIv-1y.  DIseLogs  -uclde  o-osuetsrcues nd
ProjectIon p-raeletr  for sortelity rates comprIse of Ibree levels esu-uoctpid porno.
Log lIfe enpocta..cy et birtb Lncoa..ing  fthb c-utry 'n po  copta income                 Acc..t..     etict  (pecetL uf doIlics -. 10t101  urban, end rural -
rvel, and femaletlife enpeclancy stbllisiug atr77. 5 years .  Tb. pare-                     Cooolnld-LSngo  hli  elecr.icity iunlIvIng quarters aspe..t
maert  frfertilit  rat  also hove  ithton level  eauing decline in                           of  tota, urban, ad  ure.  duellinga respectvely.
fertility ourdLug to Inom  leve1l and pant family plan_iog porfurm..c..
Back coontrycis throne Igurd un  of  h...m ui... cobLnatLSen  of martality              EDUCATION1
an:d fertilitY trendo fur Projectiuv Purposes.                                             ndJuated Enrollact Betiolu
Sttionar.y Pupulotin- Iu. a stationar pupuloniun tbsre is no grectb aloco                    Prisn'nuo - 10101ta, ale sod female - Gr.v. Itotl, mal  eand femal
th.ba  ttrh rote in equa l.to lbs dealt rote, cud ab. cite ago atractue ce-                    enolot uf all  aes  t lbs primary level en porce..egm of r"po-tiv-
maine  .ornatn.      LThe isati-vd only after fertility eaten denIie to                        prary  oboul-age populaciu.s; o-r11y includes children aged 6-11
cte replacesoct boo1 of uneit  et reprduoction rate,  hon  eacb generalion                     yeero but adjusted fur di fores.t lengnth  of PrImaury eduotluu; for
ef somau replaces itself o-cotly.  The stationay pupulation sineu roe                          cuntres  Ltit uni-rea1 edu....inu enrolset soy onced 100 percent
etmtd on tbahe b.i  of che projecitd citrorat.toltics of lbs popu1atiun                    ioo suo_ pupil  are itel- ur aiuv  cte. off Idol scihoul age.
Sotbe yer 205,ad che rate of decline uf fertility role no replace-                           Secoday school - total, sole and female - Gomp.t.d as above; ....udary
mat leve.                                                                                       educoti.c.. requIrest leas  four yearn of approved priaery lo-t-tuies;
Tea  ... tioey rurulation La reerced - Th. yeor  he.a et-usutry pupuletioc                       provides gonero.   ocationo1, or teucitr traiocg Lontr.ttl... for pupila
sian Ill ite rmachbd.                                                                          unuely of 12 to 17 years of age; corrspundooe  coa...rsen are generally
P.oulation Uoalty                                                                                   ecladed.
Per mu. be.- Mid-yea  papulacIion per square kWooeer  (100  bcoe)of                          Voataiocal enrolisont iP-r..nt uf secondary) - Vocational institutiuna
total ara;1960. 1970 ed 1979 dole.                                                           looode temitnica. Soduetriol, or other program  tIck  peprac  indepeud-
Per  o. Am. agrHIclue      lnd- Computrd on tovo for aroltrllend                               ontly or:a, departmacte of enoonddory Sestituttoon..
onlyl; 190.1970 and 1979 dale.                                                             Pucl_ector catio   primary  en  neundary - Total students eurol1d in
Populetiuc Age St-uctorc (eoc)- Childreu  (0-14 years). corklug-age (15-                         primary eud  -eodery Iev-I. divided by  .. hern of teachers In tbe
64yar)end retired (61 year  and over) as perceotagee of sid-yeor popu-                   currespucdLng levsla.
eio ; 160.  90  a             t 98 a.                                                   Autlcryrae(percout) - Lite-rae odolts (able to read and crIe)
Population Groerih Bate (portent) - tutu1 - Annual groeth rtote   of tItol mid-                  Isperc...cage of local adult populatiuu aged 1) yearn and over.
yea popolatiuu for 1950-60. 1960-70, end 1970-00.
Populatlo  Credi Bate (prereL)-ubn- Anrual Rfulth ratue  of urban popn-                     CONSOMPTIONS
latL..m  for 1950-60, 1907.ad197U-gO                                                         Pasmeengo  Care (per tbhuand populalien) -  aurger tars cmpriae matur
Crude BIritt Solo (po  thouenad) - Anuua Ilive bitrcth. par thtounad of mid-year                 caesaieLoebn  litpru;eouoeabueocre, itearsss and
popuantion; 1960. 19 70. ad 1980 datb,                                                         m1il cighary vehicles..  .b.
Crude Doath Ba te (Per ltou-adj) - Ann.. dab  pe   iuen    f aid-year                          Radio2 RetovErs (per titounod population) - All types of corsivrs for.rdLu
populatIon; 1960. 1070. ad180 Aut.                                                             broadco     tognea  Public por thoononde of populto;  eldr   n
Grua   etdtloB  oAeaenmero   a5teeena    iiba n                                                  ILc...o.d reo-iour  In        cuoria   c   oyostvrgnrtu               f rodio
b rnouel repruduciv  periLod if sieb   p-riences pr....l as-op-cif ItfU-                   note.- inS effect; datb  for roecet yearn may cot ho ou...ratble since
tility raton;u...elly five-yoar averagos endiug L. 1960. 1970. and 1980.                       noel toanteiee abu1iited Iic---ning.
Ponile'1 ionlu  -JA Accters.  Annal(cauns) - Auu  nuber ofi ....ptura                          TV lecoivers(p-erthousod ropulatiu-) - TV  r-ivera fur brodat tu
ofbirthit-c 'otu  dEvic   udr auPic,   ufnlanlIily plo g progran.                             goea   olcprtosn    uualn    tide     coe   Vreivr
PseilY PI-Lan 0-Rl eers (portent of arried somen) - Perceotege of married                        in  uuutriea and in yeara tot registratiou of TV solo cas in effect'. 
somnuf  hbl-ero  age&,(15I    yoarn) to ... birtht-contoI  device  to                        Natrapa,rorCircuatia- teipr tit..unud ....u1atiu   - Sh-n  tht ovrage tic-
al Lared  coa  nsm   ge grup.                                                             cltluc of"dil  gRerol ioterostocpapo", dofiSeed a    peritodgoa1
publioatiou devoced priaIly" tu ro.tudinggooo uE-          s.It Je cunmidmeed
P00D ANDO NUTRIITION                                                                               to bto "daily" if LIt appeara at lean.t fuorrisenea cok.
Iodeo of food Prduction roe Capia (1969-71-100)- lode. of poer capita ounual     Cinema Annual Attendeoce Per.CaPIta per Yoar -uesd non the  numberiof
proocn of ni  fond to  ooitits.  Prodcin  oldn    ed ad foend and                              tickets sold during the yer, includIng adsinmiov  to drive-Se cinema
Is  n c ncdaperbaS.CutmdLti.  covr primay god  (..Nuga.ca.                                 and -abile u-it..
bLed of sugar)  hiit are odLbl  and oontLainnutrienta  (e.g. toffee aud
teaercde d).  Aggregate productioc of seth country l  baed onLABOR FORCE
ualo   eerg  prduce.r price taights; 16-5  190  ad 190dtToto1 Sbobr Forcr (th-ounond .)- .f.toic11y a,tiv0 persona, inclodlog
Per caio upl y uf caleiea (porce   of rguirmmauto) - Computed Scoumre  frces andi  ..ampl:yed.but.e.ludin,ihuomec,1ive. cIudenta. etc.,
enorgyequivaent ofnet fod muple   vial  Incutry pr ..Pit.                            coare   poplt nouof allage.  DSofiatironeS  voluncontrIes ore
per day.  Available asuppliee  omprine domastic pruductSeon. Lport  lone                       uut comparable; 1960, 1970 end 1980 da.t.
onports. and cbungo  n 10aluk.  Mat sapplioc ecclde animal ford, seeds,                        female (percent) - Peale labor force asp perco...ge uf tuca1 labor furor.
q_atlitles need infood Pruceeog  ud lonoes in dltributi-v  Requice-                           Agriculture (percett) -  Ao  frelfrig .for.rely  hutIng and
ane   creet.  imated by PAO hordon pyilgolodsfrnmaat-fmioanoruofof, bia   lnr fure  190 90 and1980 date.
oIlyan  bethi. cuadering rnvri-notal tempeo.raers  bodysogta  age                              1ndustry (perorut) - Labor furco In slnir. totrto,muufanturing
ed sedistribution, ofpupuJ.,inn, mud alloing 11 porte..  or nacat                               and electicity, ouer adgsa  pce goftalabr force;
hauoboIld leve; 1961465. 1970 ned 1977 dabe.                                                     190   91n   90 datan  ..  .p .tg   ftt1I
per capIta surely of  roic(gr!ma pot day) - proteoin cottont of per capita                     Partioipstoo Bat  (Perrc..t) -total, male, od female - Participation, or
cot supply of fod per day.Noal supply of food iA defined as abov.RBa-                         ativity cocos are  oputed A. total, male, and f.inal  labor for..eas
quicesote for all ceuotries estbitned by USDA provIde for minis                                per.tenlges of totul  male end female popuatine of all ages roapctively;
elumnasu  60 gRaaa of local procuin pov day and 20 gSoma of aoimaI and                   1960, 1970. and 198'0 data.  Thaae are base.d or ILO'e participation  rtale
puIa. proteio,ofh tih 10 gEtm   should be animal protein.  These sted-                         roflactingag-onro          r    f cthe population, ard long time trend.  A
a.rd  ace leve  titan those of 75 grama of total protein and 23 gtna of                        fec  .tos utes are fran  atlone1 sources
ulal praotia so enaerg  for lbs curld, pruposod by PAD Lv lbs Thitd                       fconemic Depeodenoy Batio - Batio of population under 15 and 65 aud 00cr
bod food Survy; 1961-6). 1970 and 1977 dac.ttolb  total lbor rorc..
per toeIta proti.     upyfrnaia   o   ue   Pro ...t inupply of foud do
-                     ~~~~~rived frn animals and pulses So graso per day; 1961465. 1970 ond 1977 dat.            INCOME DiISTRIBUTION
Child (age. 1-4) Dealth Bate (per tituad       eua.eteprliomn   tPccaaao   rvte Icomau (butb iu coeb and hind) - Re-iv-d by riobs-t
geg  group 1-4 yent. t0 children io thi a.ge group; for mastdoveloping c.u.-                   5 porce..t. rithest 20 Porte..d, poorest 20 percent. and puoveet 60 percet
trIes data derIved ftro  life tables; 1960,I 19 70 and 1980 data,                              ofh. housbld..
H___T_                                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUP S
Life SEpeotaooy at Birtht Ivare) -Av-roge nuebr of years of lifa remaining                     The follociog e.tLmte. err very approomte maacro  of poverty levels,
atbirth; 1960., 1970 and 190data.                                                            and sheald be interpreted  ith cuos idrerblt  caution.
Infant Murtality Baet  (perr t9hooned) - Annual deaths of infants under one poetr              Estima,tedAbsonllut   o t  inue  ee  (UII  pejr capita:). -ubac ed  urtl -
of age pot thansad live bihrths; 1960. 1970 and 1980 deta.P. tooue   oeryin olevel int ct Lout                                                   ee  ino tIinta m,diuelm
A-esse to Safe Cater feercent of poru1eti.iu)t- tulatl, urban, rand rural - Num-                 natritionelly adoquat  diot plu ..o..entia1 son-fond requirements L. not
her, of people (total, urba,adrural) hei reaonble ses  to saf                                  affurdabis.
sotr supply (Secldes createdurface macem. or ancreated bat unc-st-om ted                     Stimatd Relative Poverty Incom  Loya  (01$ pee t-pita) -  rbos  nd rural -
sotsr sac itas hbt true ptrotncd btoreholne, springe. anRaitr-ois s1aa  relatIve poverty Saoa leve  So our-.third' ofaerg  Per oaplt
Pertae  of Lbs irrepecive Ppulatbins.  In an urba  am a pubIlcprel                                    aoe  fcsouty   Urban level In derivedfoels  ua
f  intb  orsadot   -otdnrmre thse 200 meters frum A haue may be                             level  Ith  djuatmat for highter oust of lvn U    I.s uL ienareas
-onideredaa being cithin maso= ble acces  of thtc hoose. OInreral areas                     REtimtesdPoraato  Salo  Abslut  Pove,rty I1ncomeLeve  (cest) r- nie
teasonbLa erasold ispl  Ibthcb  hoascifs or mabers of ths beneebsd                             and  rea -I Foesofpuannfrbsndual)-iuer    slte
do sot hoeto apand a diaptoprtionta pert of lbs day  In fetohlng lbs                           Poor.
Aaemaeto Secrete l,.ioeaal       -:,Ln:o   eolaln)-totl urban   o   ua 
Sotr  f  oois(toal  uba,  adrurl) sevd by enerel  disp. o  an
patestge  of their  ~espotLv- pepuletloes.  Serttet  dSopao  may Sla1de
-mtnao  Sam  sad dipoa.  ritit or .1ilosat trat-ont. of Ias  anrt
ead casta-talr by votetb-bea  systa    or lbs ass of pit prlivm   end dm1-
let inotaltlt s..
PoesaIem per Physbaian - Popsltile  divided by nubrof pratieLsg phyyai-                                                         E    E..-mL. end Scis1 Date DLIviLo
aaoqmelflfs  free a eadlul sohs1 at anivrsity level.                                                                       fuemaic Aaalyas and Projutgons Dsparstest
Pere!!Losb    -romtIrelee P.rao_   Pop.Lotla  divlded by e.sr of pmantLalg                                                                        nay 1982
ala  aed f-mal  gradanssete.          asaa o    ursos.Lt-   pratISe1  arm.ee sd
suegg-    uollrls



ANNEXT I
Population:  1.6 million  (mid 1981)                                       - 20-                                                       Page 4 of 7 pages
C.NP per capita. IIS-S900 (Bank Atlas estimate f or 1980)
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
ECONOMI CINDICATORS (Iil /a
Eat.       Proj.
1979       1976      1977        1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
National ACCOUnts
(In current CFAF Billions)
GOP at market priceS                     164.4      180.3      188.0      198.3      259.0      269.5      508.5      647.8
Gros  Domestic Investment                 64.3       55.9       50.0       54.3       65.0      131.0      165.0       200.0
Gross National Savings                    11.9       -1.0        3.7        7.6       41.5-  102.0         137.6       164.5
Impor-ts Of GoodS and Nrs lb             104.9      120.0      122.7      120.2      124.0      218.6      288.5      379.8
Esports of Goods and NFS lb               99.0       72.8       89.7       86.3      120.3      315.8      317.2      417.3
Gross Domestic Investment as %.
of GOP                              39.1       31.0       26.6        27.4       25.5       37.1       32.5       30.9
Gross National Savings as 
of GNP                               7.5        -0.6        2.1        4.1       17.7       30.4       30.6       28.6
Imports of Goods and NFS as 
of GDP  lb                          63.8       66.6       69.3       60.6        48.6       5A.6       56.2       58.8
Exports of Goods end NFS as 
of GOP  lb                          35.9       40.4       45.6        43.5       47.2       58.4       62.4       64.4
Annual Rates of Growth In %
GOP at market prices (nominal)            20.0        9.7        4.3        5.5       28.8       44.9       27.6        27.4
GOP at market prices (real)                1.0       -0.5       -3.5       -2.0        9.5       24.8       20.1        15.0
Gross Value Added by Sector
(In current CFAF Billion)
Agriculture Livestock Fishery             21.0       21.4                  27.8                  36.8        40.0       45.0
Foresty                                    3.8        3.9                   4.0                   5.5        5.9         6.5
Oil and other mining                      36.9       43.9                  31.9                 129.9      221.7       202.1
Industry                                  11.2       18.9       n..        22.6        n..       26.5       29.5        32.8
Construction and Public Works              5.2        7.0       na          6.0        n          17.5       28.0       42.0
Transport and telecom.                    79.8       16.3                  17.7                  32.6       39.5        47.7
Services end Commerce                     29.4       29.9                  41.3                  57.7       68.-6       81.4
Public Administration etc. Ic             30.8       28.2                  36.6                  45.2       503         58.0
As t of total Gross Value Added
Agriculture livestock A fishery           13.7.      13.2                  14.8                   10.5        8.2        7.3
Forestry                                   1.8        1.8                   2.1                    1.6        1.2        1.1
Oil and other mining                      34.1       27.0                  17.0                  36.9        45.9       49.0
Industry                                   7.3       10.4       n..        12.0       ta.a.       7.5        6.1         5.3
Construc tion and Public Works             3.4        4.3                   3.2                   5.0         5.8        7.0
Transport and telecom.                    10.3       10.0                   9.4                   9.3         8.2        7.7
ServiceAsdand Commece                     19.3       15.9                  292.0                  6.4       142        13.2
PublIc Adinistration etc. Ic              20.1       17.4                  19.5                   12.9       10.4        9.4
SOURCE:Centre National de la Statistique at des Etudes Economiques. Ministry of Plan
and Bank Staff estimates for years for which no official data are available.
In or der to preserve consistency,  some adjustments have been made by Staff.
/a  FiscalItear is January I - December 31.
lb  There are discrepancies betwoen National Accounts data and those
reported inythetBalance of Payments on International tradle and factor
services payments and receipts. It is considered that the balance of
payments data are mpre consistent and reliable and the figures used here
are consequ ently those taken from the balance of payments information.
Ic  This category Inc ludes most Importantly the value added conventionally
calculated for publi1c administ rati on,. bu t Italso inclIudes other non
market activities.
W. CP 115 
11/05182



Population:   1.6 million  (mid 1981)                                       - 21 -                                                       ANNEX I
GNIP per capita:  US$900  (Bank Atlas estimate for 1980)                                                                                 Page 5 of 7 pages
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
ECONOM IC INDICATORS 121
EIst.      Proj.
1975       1976       1977       1978       1979        1980       1981        1982
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (IN CFAF BILLIONS)
(CASH BIASIS)
Current receIPts                                   44.3        47.8       51.9       56.3       91.7       117.3      209.7      241.4
ofwhich Oil taxes Arid reveties              11.7       14.1       14.1        13.1       22.7       58.8       126.1      134.9
(as percent Of total)              26.4        29.6       27.2       23.2       43.9        50.1       60.2       55.9
Current exPenditures                               39.2        42.1       50.8       58.0       54.8        74.4       97.7      134.5
ofwhich salaries & wages                      20.1       23.0       25.1       29.7        21.7       36.3       40.8        53.8
L                       ~~~~~~~~~interest payments           1.3         (.7        2.0        5.1        3.4        8.2        12.0       20. 3
Currrnt surplus (including adjustments)             5.0         4.7        1.t       -1.7       -3.1        43.0      111.9      106.5
Inve stment expenditures                           18.2         6.5        2.5        5.0        4.5       27.0        52.0       82.0
Debt amort iz ation                                  2.5        2.8        2.0        4.5        4.5        (0.0       (62        29.0
Total cpital expendiltires                         20.7        11.3        4.5        9.5        9.0        37.        6.2       110
Financing total                                     15.7        6.6        3.3       11.3       12.1        -6.0      -43.7        4.1
(As percent of GOP at market prices)
Current receipts/GOP                           26.9       26.5       27.6       28.4        20.3       31.8       41.2        37.3
Total dinvestment expendmitur'eS/GOP           11.1        4.7        1.3        2.5         1.8        7.3       (0.2        12.7
Total  ebtservice  pmets/GOP                    2.3        2.5        2.1        4.9         3.1        4.9        5.6         7.
Firenaning total/GOP                            9. 5       3.6         (.8       5.7         4.7       -1.6       -8.6         0.8
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
------ ----------------                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Feb 82
(IN CFAF BILLIONS -- END PERIOD)
Money and quasi-money                              29.1        33.9       34.5       36.9       44.9        61.4       92.1       96.4
Cr ecti to the Government (net)                     10.1       11.7       16.8       20.0       20.7        21.6        4.4        5.9
Credit to the Eco nomy  /a                         29.3        38.0       38.9       39.4       45.6       56.0        94.2       96.8
(Percentages or indiex numbers)
Money 6 quasi-money /GOP                            17.7       16.81      18.4       (81.6       17.6       16.6       (8 .1      1.4.9
Bra.zaville consume.r price Index  /b             100.0      107.3      122..7     135.1       16.1       156.7      13.3         n..
(1975 = 1001
(Annual changes In percent)
Credit to the Governeent (net)                     119.8       16.1       43.4       19.1        3.1         4.5      -79.5       33.8
Credit to the Economy  /a                          28.1        29.8        2.4         (.3       (5.6       22.8       68.2         2.7
Money and qu asi-money                              1 3.6      16.6        (.8        6.9       21.7        36.7       50.0        4.6
Bra...avIlIIeconsume.r price Index  /b              17.4        7.2       14.5       (0.1        8.1         7.3       17.0        nl.a.
SOU RCE:Data Pr ovided by various agencies of the Government of the Congo.
Adjustments a nd esImates are made by Bank Staff In order to make the
presentation morecomplete then whet is readily available. Also.
reclassificati on Is usedi to make the data consistent with
standardi defini'tiOn of va riables.
/a Including public enterpr ises.
/b This consumer price index is, first establihe In,,196411and.does not
adequately reflect th eprcsicrese   or averae famIlIes
W.A. CP 1I B
11/05/ 82



Population:   1.6 million (mid 1981)                                       -22-                                                      ANNEX I
GNP per capita:  US$900  (Bank Atlas estimate for 1980)                                                                              Page t -of 7 pages
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
ECONOMIC INDICATORS (3)
Est.       Proj.
1975      1976        1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
Balance of Payments (Billions of CFAF)
Exports of goods and non-factor services            99.0       72.8       89.7       86.2      120.3      215.9      317.2      417.3
of which Crude oil                            29.6       34.9        29.2      48.1        74.9      193.7      257.0      350.0
Imports of goods and non-factor services           104.9      120.0      122.7      120.2      124.0      216.6      286.5      279.8
Of which Oil sector                           26.9       40.4        41.9       38.9       38.0       8B.1      110.5      130.6
(Resource gap:def.cit with -l-45.9                            -47.2      -37.0      -34.0       -3.7       -0.9       30.7       37.5
Net investment income and interepst                 -6.8       -9.3       -80.9     -12.9      -20.4      -34.7       -58.9      -73.8
Ne t other factor se'rvices receipts                 0.2       -0.4       -0.4        0.2        0.7        0.5        0.7         0.8
Net unrequited Private transfers                    -5.4       -5.4       -5.7       -0.9        -8.7      -13.6      -15.0      -17.5
(Balance on current account)                       -57.7      -62.3      -52.0      -47.6      -30.2      -48.6      -42.4      -53.0
Net unrequited public transfers                      7.4        9.5        5.4       10.9        9.0        13.4       15.0       15.0
Net direct foreign investment and
M.8 L. loans to private sector                    20.9       22.3       29.5        7.0        2.8       16.7       20.0       25.0
Publi1c sec tor M. I L. loans mant)                  8.7       13.2        8.1       32.7       13.3       39.6       37.0       40.0
:.,sburs.mant                                 12.5       15.0       12.0       37.2       20.4       48.8       55.0       70.0
:Amorti zati on                                3.8        1.8        3.9        4.5        7.0       11.2       18.0       30.0
Total net trade credit                               7.3        2.7       -0.7        0.4        5.6      -19.1       -9.0        -9.0
Other short-term capital (net)                       0.2       -2.5       -3.3       -3.4       -0.8        0.5        0.0         0.0
Other capital not elsewhere included                -0.0        0.0       -0.2       -0.1       -0.1       -0.2       -0.3        -0.3
Monetary sec tor capital   /a                        2.8        0.7        2.2        0.8       -0.4        0.1         5.1        2.1
Errors and omissions  Id                             4.0       14.2        6.0       -1.3        4.4        8.9        -7.4
Overall balance                                     -6.4       -2.2       -9.0       -1.0        3.3       11.2        18.0
Total financing  lb                                  6.4        2.2        5.0        1.0       -3.3      -11.2      -18.0
Gross official foreign reserves                      3.2        3.0        3.4        2.4        9.7       20.9       38.8
(end-Yea)
Net foreign assets lend-tear)                       -0.9       -2.6       -7.1       -7.7        -3.0        8.8       23.6
U.S.$ 1.00= CFAF (period average) Ic               214.3      239.0      249.7      225.6      212.7      211.3      271.7       316.2
SDR 1.00= CFAF (period average) Ic               260.1      275.9      286.8      282.3      274.8      274.9      319.8      352.9
SOURCE:Data provided by various agencies of the Government of the Congo.  Adjustment.
reclassification and estimates are made by B3ank Staff.
Ia Two depost banks (UCe and BCC) and Post Office.
lb InclIuding changes in arrears, and changes in resmr'ves and related items.
/c For 1982. ,january - August 1982 period average figures are shown.
Id  The effects of exchange rate fluctuations on asset values are not fully
reflected in the variables used here nor in this adjustment item.
W.A. CP II 8
11109182



Population;  1.6 million  (mid 1981)                                                                                               ANNEX I
GNP per capita:  US$900 (Bank Atlas estimate for 1980)                        - 23page 7 of 7 pages
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
ECONOMIC INDICATORS (4)
(In millions of U. S.S unl ess otherwise specified)
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
EXTERNAL DEBT /s
Gross disbursements: Total                      117.1      81.8       89.8      226.8      104.6      229.5
of whiCh IBRD & IDA                            4.0       iO.i        3.2       20.1       11.2        2.9
Private creditors                   45.2       23.0       11.5       99.9       22.1      i21.S
Suppliers                         44.7       i9.7        5.3       18.0       iS.4        0.0
Financial market                   0.6        3.3        6.3       81.9        7.6      12i.5
Coesitments :Total                              95.0      236.6       83.8      125.3       76.7      274.6
of which IBR0 and IDA                          0.0       38.0        8.5        0.0       0.0       39.0
Pr iva te creditors                 34.3       50.0       25.5       69.5       14.4      1481.9
Supp liers                        30.4       27.0        3.1       11.0        1.4       0.0
Financial market                   3.9       23.0       22.4       58.5       13.0     148.5
Debt outstanding and disbursed: Total          363.0      412.0      SO1.2      769.01    820.7      897.98
of which Bank and IDA                         34.8       43.0       44.2      62.0       62.7       61.4
Debt.service:: Tta                              35.81      24.5       360.5      27.7      106.5      9,6.3
(as %of exports1)                             12.8        5.0       10.5       7.3       18.8        9.4
of which IB8D ad IDA                           3.9        3.8        4.6        5.4       14.0       8.3
(a  %ofToel                            11.1      15.5       12.6       19.5       13.1        8.6
Average interes,t rate on new loans  1           5.2        5.8        5.1        7.1        4.6       9.4
of ficial Icreditors                           3.6        5 2        3.5        3.5        3.2       4.1
Private creditors                              7.9        7.8        8.8       10.0       10.8      13.
Average maturity of new loans (years)            10.1      17.0        9.9        8.81      10.6       14.6
Of ficial1 credi tors                         10.6       19.6       11.2       11.2       11.5      22.9
Privete credi tors                             9.4        7.2        6.9        6.9        8.7       7.7
Exchange rates
US,I 1.00- CFAAF (Period my.)              214.320   238.982   245.7    225.638   212.723   211.302
US   .00- CFAF (End period)             224.280   348.490   235.250   209.000   201.000   225.800
SOUJBCE:WorlId Bank Debtor BRoMrting System end Balance of Payments data provided by the
Ooverr,eent with adjustments by Bank Staff.
/s Stock variables are measured as End-of-Period figures. For conversion of
flow variables such as disburseents and debt service period average
exchange rates are used to Obtain U.S. $ figures
W.A. CP II 8
11/09/82



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
- 24 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
Loan or
Credit       Fiscal                                   (Amount less cancellations)
Number       Year      Borrower      Purpose          Bank     IDA 1/    Undisbursed
Ten loans and credits fully disbursed                 68.0     21.85
1349-COB     1977      Congo         Education II      8.00     -          2.00
971-COB     1979      Congo         Petroleum         -        5.00       2.51
1047-COB     1980      Congo         Railway II        -       30.00       9.90
1179-COB     1982      Congo         River Trans.      -       17.00      17.00
Total                         76.00    73.85       31.41
of which
has been repaid               31.70      0.12
Total now held by
Bank and IDA                  44.30    73-73
Total undisbursed               2.00    29.46  -  31.41
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Invest-   Fiscal                                           Amount in US$ million
ment No.  Year      Obligator         Type of Business    Loan    Equity    Total
559-COB   1981      Societe des       Logging and Veneer   3.5       -         3.5
Placages au Congo
608-COB   1982      Societe d'Etude  Pulp and Paper                  0.2       0.2
de la cellulose Products
du Congo
Total held by IFC                       3.5     0.2        3.7
Total undisbursed                        3.5    0.2        3.7
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
- 25-                       Page 2 of 3
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (as of September 30, 1982)
Ln. No.           Second Education Project:  US$8 million Loan of May 7,
1349-COB          1977;  Effective Date: November 29, 1977;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project provides for strengthening of educational
planning and creation of a primary teacher college, and education publications
unit, a technical teacher training department and a forestry school.  Project
implementation is about two years behind schedule due to delays in contract
awards for civil works and equipment procurement. However, construction of
three out of five project institutions was completed by July 1982. The
fellowship program has been satisfactorily implemented. The Government has
negotiated a contract for technical assistance with UNESCO.
Cr. No. 971-COB Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project: US$5.0
million Credit of April 11, 1980; Effective Date: August 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project provides for technical assistance to the Ministry
of Mines and Energy and to the national company HydroCongo; a management
(diagnostic) study of HydroCongo in a first phase followed by the
implementation of the study's recommendations; an aeromagnetic survey of the
Central Basin (Cuvette), a feasibility study of a steamflooding pilot project
in the offshore Emeraude field; training and other studies. A.D. Little, the
management consulting firm, is currently implementing the recommendations for
the reorganization of the HydroCongo, including a detailed review of the
finance, marketing and distribution functions of that company. The Cuvette
airmag survey results have been offered for sale to oil companies, but due to
the slump in the oil business, interest is so far meager (an exploration
program in the hostile environment of the Cuvette is likely to be extremely
costly). A study of the Coastal Basin oil and gas reserves is about to be
completed by Corelab of Dallas and the final report is expected in December.
An accounting firm, Arthur Young, has begun an audit of HydroCongo including
the closing of 1981 balance sheet. The study for the enhanced oil recovery
(steamflooding pilot) will start as soon as contract is formalized. A.D.L.
has begun the products pricing study. The technical assistance has been slow
to take shape: two engineers have been contracted for some time, the
contracting of two more is about to be finalized while legal assistance to MME
will be provided by a law firm on a as needed basis (Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen
and Hamilton).
Cr. No.           Second Railway Project:  US$430.0 million Credit of June 19,
1047-COB          1980; Effective Date: April 24, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
The project provides for completion of civil works on the
realignment of the CFCO railway, purchase of machinery for maintenance of
earthworks and consulting services for supervision and contract management.
The works have been progressing favorably and are nearing completion outside
the long tunnel. Major difficulties have been experienced in the excavation
of this tunnel, due to difficult terrain and water inflows on both
construction sites. Improved excavation methods have been implemented on the
western drive where the works are now progressing more favorably. On the



ANNEX II
- 26 -                     Page 3 of 3
eastern drive, massive peripheral grouting has been completed and progress has
been resumed. However, additional grouting will still be necessary to pass a
recently encountered fault zone whose size is not known yet. Depending on
soil conditions, excavation is now expected to be completed of the top heading
in June/July 1983. The latest work schedule provides for starting the
finishing works of the long tunnel in February 1984 and the commissioning of
the realigned section by November 1984. Contractual amendments and settlement
of past claims have been negotiated by the borrower with the contractor.
After comprehensive review of the proposed arrangements by ATC's consultants
and legal advisor and consultation with the Association, these arrangements
have been found acceptable and will be made effective when approved by other
co-financiers. Expressed in US$ equivalent, total cost of the project remains
virtually unchanged, mainly because of the appreciation of the dollar.
However, due to the fact that contributions from certain donors are not likely
to materialize and supplementary expenditures to be covered by the Government
(field security, penalty interests and labor wage increases), there is a
financing gap of about US$43 million equivalent for which the Government is
seeking additional contributions from other donors. Financial situation of
the project will be reviewed during a forthcoming field mission and the
percentage of disbursement from each donor, including the Government, will be
revised at this occasion. Operational performance of ATC continues to improve
and action plan targets are being met.
Cr. No.          River Transport Project:  US$17.0 million;  Credit of March
1179-COB          10, 1982;  Effective Date:  September 20, 1982;  Closing
Date: September 10, 1985.
The project provides for purchase by the Agence
Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC) of new river transport equipment,
including timber barges, line pushers, tugboat, passenger vessel and
miscellaneous floating craft, rehabilitation and upgrading of river port
facilities at Brazzaville, Mossaka and Ouesso, expansion of training
facilities for river transport personnel, construction of river-training
works, purchase of data processing equipment and software, and training and
technical assistance. In addition, funds are provided for technical
assistance to the Ministries of Transport in setting up a planning unit as
well as to the Office Congolaise du Bois (OCB), the Government timber
marketing Board. The project was recently declared effective but procurement
of equipment and civil works as well as technical assistance services has been
substantially completed in accordance with Association guidelines and with ATC
and the Government advancing a part of the downpayments to various
contractors. ATC's river transport services are experiencing improved
performance and other project covenants are being met. Substantial progress
has been made in attracting new investors in the forestry sector, due in part
to the improvements in ATC's river transport services and to the anticipated
deliveries of new equipment for timber transport from the northern forests.



Annex III
Page 1 of 1
- 27 -
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project                   8 months
(b)   Project prepared by                                 Government,
consultants and
Bank staff
(c)   Date of the first Bank mission to                   October 1979
consider the project
(d)   Date of departure of appraisal mission              April 7, 1981
(e)   Negotiations completed                              April 14, 1982
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness                       April 1983
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions
The Government has provided assurances that:
(a)   sufficient funds will be available to finance all highway
maintenance expenditures required for Congo (para. 37);
(b)   RNTP will prepare and discuss with the Bank annual programs of
rehabilitation and maintenance of roads in the Pool and Cuvette
regions acceptable to the Bank (para. 41);
(c)   RNTP will submit by September 30, 1983, for the Bank's comment and
thereafter take appropriate steps to implement a program of traffic
counts for its national highway network and a set of procedures for
monitoring the productivity of rehabilitation and regravelling
brigades (para. 58).
A condition of Loan effectiveness would be the signing of contracts for
the project's training and workshop consulting services (para. 47).






IBRD 16087
.-Kt- ~-~             ~-~~-d CFNT9TRAL  AFRICAN      D'JB Lb           'oi
V,
\~~~~.                                                Vpn B~                    Sa                            (eD , o  
ZAIRE
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SI
J'S.
R E                s JATE                 I         PLES REPUBLtC OF CONGO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ROADS UNDERt MAIATENIANGC RD RAM
0     0    S&RDIVISION DlfRECTORATE s R~RT
I    REGIONAL DIRECT DAT .L RN-TS
 REGIONAL CAPITALS
u    ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~              -    PRIMIARY ROADS. PAVED
|~~~~~~1              A    R        ll_C':RfN> $8X  f
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RMR RODS GRVE __ _EARTH  /(   Sq 
SECONDARY ROADS. EARTH
FtS -- > <&-a /                                                                                                     AE 0       VAY
I' J                                                                                                 lS R, INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
Ni,~b     IJ'   V                         s2                           k      f   Z                    &                  0    OTHER AIRPORTS
K,                                                                                                           MARSH~~~~ MU  L.  I
ILL taJ i    S e m   SREGIONAL BOUNDMRIES
-     - b'NTERNATIO%At -OINDARIES
A  /RlN. CoC ,L P                                                                                                             1 jIU ,O                  205       250
Nd OIdS  ,      ANGOLA) f) !,,oUR,o EA-                   R. f        -2  f    ,/               _,                        RILOMETERERS
|      OI ./                                                                                                                 50             zooI             1 50po o L   /j+ tTnaToAAROT
C  e aR e      X gz    (                        Z   A              E R   E                                                         MIL LE
12-  o, .-l,2Epeo 0                      lOT                                          lO



