OFFICIAL
LOAN NUMBER 2227 COB
RUMCENTS
Loan Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
between
THE PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTMUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 IL t -O  Zo  , 1983


﻿LOAN K.UMBER 2227 COB
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        oA4 iAC)            , 1983, between
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF TM CONGO $ereinafter called the Bor-
rower or Congo) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, October 27, 1980, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated JuLy 3, 1980 and
August 1, 1980 between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)  "CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the currency or the Bor-
rower.
(c) "RNTP" means Regie Nationale des Transports et des
Travaux Publics, a public enterprise under the supervision of the
Borrower's ministry responsible for travaux publics, construction
urbanisme et habitat.
(d) "Fee" means the fee referred to the Section 2.05
hereof.
(e)  "Fonds Sp&cial" means the fund which has been created
by Loi No 32/80 dated December 27, 198C portant Loi de Finances
pour 1981.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million and seven hundred thousand dollars ($12,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
the Association the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as
of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date s, L be December 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall t. -ablish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such la). , date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to one hundred and
eighty seven thousand six hundred and eighty-five dollars
($187,685). The fee shall be payable in such currency or curren-
cies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall
not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective Date,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and pay to itself the amount required for the full pay-
ment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified for the
purpose.


﻿-3
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three fourth of one per cent (0.75 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through RNTP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and high-
way practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose
(including the funds required to cover the capital costs and the
recurrent expenditures necessary   for  the  execution  of  the
Project).
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the fore-
going, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in
accordance with a plan of action acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall continue to
employ or employ, as the case may be, consultants whose selec-
tion, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with
the principles and procedures des.ribed in the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident


﻿-4-
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The   Borrower  shall   cause  all  goods  and   services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the specifications, reports,
contract documenL8 and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall,
within one month of the close of each calendar quarter, prepare
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and
operation of the Project during that elapsed quarter.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿-5-
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, prumptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-6-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subsidivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,.
or operating for the account or benefit of. the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts and records to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of each Part
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall (i) have such separate accounts, in
respect of Parts A through D of the Project, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
a certified. copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnished to the Bank such other information
concerning said separate accounts, records and expenditures and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. Without any limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 hereof, the Borrower shall at all
times ensure that the funds available for highway maintenance
(including the funds made available for that purpose through the
Fonds Sp'cial) are sufficient to meet all highway maintenance
expenditures in its territ)ry and shall provide, at all times and
promptly as needed, all other resources required to ensure such
maintenance according to proper practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all measures reason-
ably required to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of


﻿-7-
vehicles using its national highwa, network shall not exceed
limits consistent with the design standards of such roads.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1983
(or such other date as the Bank may agree), prepare and submit to
the Bank for its comments: (i) a program of traffic counts for
its national highway network; and (ii) a set of procedures for
monitoring the productivity of the rehabilitation and regravel-
ling brigades.
(b) Upon receipt of the Bank's comments, the Borrower shall
promptly take all appropriate steps to implement both such a
program and such set of procedures.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness hereof within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the consultants for Part D of the Project referred to in
Section 3.02 hereof shall have been employed as provided in such
Section.
Section 5.02. The date F?he      tt 83 , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre des Finances de la Republique
Populaire du Congo is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances de la Republique
Populaire du Congo
Brazzaville
B.P. 1183
Republique Populaire du Congo
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       PRESICONGO
Brazzaville                        52 10 KG
Republique Populaire du Congo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Brazzaville,
R6publique Populaire du Congo, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
By /     N SI     0. .e     oudaet
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/Sf      P.    b.      t 64Ox
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Uithdrawal of tne Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of f4cas to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and 'he percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and            7,700,000
spare parts
(a) previously imported,
procured locally                       63%
(b) directly imported                       100% of foreign
and 63% of local
expenditures
(2)  Consultants'             4,137,000          81%
services
(3) Refunding of Project        125,000          Amount due
Preparation Advance
(4) Fee                         187,685          Amount due
(5) Unallocated                 550,315
TOTAL       12,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   The  disbursement   percentages  have   been  calculated   in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $400,000 may be made for expenditures under Category 2 on
account of payments made before that date but after April 30,
1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot   fully   meet   the  estimated   shortfall,   reduce   the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank    shall have reasonably determined     that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 11 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to undertake a pro-
gram of institution building and training in the highway sector
of Congo, with a concentration of efforts in the regions of Pool
and Cuvette. To that end, the Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:
A 3 1/2-year program of rehabilitation and maintenance for
roads in the Pool and Cuvette regions, through the establishment
of three (3) mechanized brigades and three (3) grading units
(including the mobilization of crews for manual road mainte-
nance), and the provision of the corresponding equipment and
spare parts.
Part B:
Construction and/or extension of several workshops in Bra-
zaville, Kindamba and Makoua (including the provision of work-
shops' equipment and spare parts).
Part C:
Increasing the testing capacity of the field units of RNTP
through the provision of soils and materials testing equipment.
Part D:
Training of RNTP's maintenance personnel and strengthening
of its capability to plan and manage road maintenance and to run
mechanical workshops, all through inter alia the provision of
about 242 man-months of consultants' services and the construc-
tion of a training center.
Part E:
Assistance for highway planning and for the development of
the local construction industries, all through inter alia the
provision of about 40 man-months of consultants' services.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1986.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE I
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1986
through   December 1, 1998                    490,000
On June 1, 1999                                    450,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                           2.05%
before maturity
More than three years but not                       4.10%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                         7.50%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     10.25%
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                            11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods (including the
initial stock of spare parts for the new equipment) shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977(hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of para-
graphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible,, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the pub-
lic of the first tender a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such  notice   in  order   to  provide   timely  notification   to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts will be grouped, to the extent possible, in order
to attract foreign suppliers.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 16 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Congo may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Congo
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Congo equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in conection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 17 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Contracts for equipment under Part C of the Project may
be awarded after obtaining quotations from at least three
reputable suppliers.
(b) Spare parts proprietary in character may be purchased
directly from the original suppliers and contracts for other
spare parts may be awarded after obtaining quotations from at
least three reputable suppliers, provided that the total cost of
contracts so awarded shall not exceed $200,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and spare parts
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids, have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recom-
mendations for award of the said consultants and such other


﻿- 18 -
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for,such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  20 9    day of     . ,198.
FOR SECRETARY


