Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056541 
 
Global Partnership on Output-based Aid 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Colombia Access to Natural Gas Project) 
 
among 
 
FUNDACIÓN PROMIGAS 
GASES DEL CARIBE S.A. E.S.P.
 
SURTIGAS S.A. E.S.P
.
GASES DE LA GUAJIRA S.A. E.S.P
.
GASES DE OCCIDENTE S.A. E.S.P 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as Administrator of the Global Partnership on Output-based Aid 
 
Dated May 19, 2006
Page  2
TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056541 
 
GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP ON OUTPUT-BASED AID 
GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated May 19, 2006, entered into among
 FUNDACIÓN PROMIGAS (“Fiduciary 
Agent”), GASES DEL CARIBE S.A. E.S.P., SURTIGAS S.A. E.S.P., GASES DE LA GUAJIRA 
S.A. E.S.P., GASES DE OCCIDENTE S.A. E.S.P (“Recipients”) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“World Bank”), acting as 
administrator of the Global Partnership
 
on
Output-based Aid Fund (“Grant Agreement”).  The 
Recipients, the Fiduciary Agent and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01.
 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. References in the Standard Conditions to the “Recipient” 
shall be deemed as references to the Recipients (for Part 1 of the Project) and the 
Fiduciary Agent (for Part 2 of the Project). 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Grant Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions and in the preamble and 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Project 
 
2.01. 
The Recipients and the Fiduciary Agent declare their commitment to the objective of the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the 
Recipients shall carry out Part 1 of the Project and the Fiduciary Agent shall carry out 
Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard 
Conditions. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Recipients, the Fiduciary Agent and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipients and the Fiduciary Agent shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
 
The Grant 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipients and the Fiduciary Agent, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to 
five million eighty-five thousand Dollars (USD 5,085,000)
 (“Grant”) to assist in 
financing the Project. 
3.02. 
The Fiduciary Agent may, on its own behalf and that of the Recipients, withdraw the 
proceeds of the Grant in accordance with Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Remedies of the World Bank 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (i) of the Standard 
Conditions, consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
Ineligibility.  IBRD or IDA has declared the Recipients or the Fiduciary Agent 
ineligible to be awarded a contract financed by IBRD or IDA. 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
5.01. 
The Grant Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by all parties to the 
Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives; Addresses 
 
6.01. 
The following Representatives are specified for the purposes of Section 6.03 of the 
Standard Conditions: 
For the Recipients: Ramón Dávila, Luis Guillermo Otoya, Rolland Pinedo Daza and 
Magin Ortiga Pareja 
 
For the Fiduciary Agent: Lucia Ruiz 
 
Page  4
3
6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for purposes of Section 6.02 of the Standard 
Conditions: 
For the Recipients: 
Mr. 
Ramón Dávila  
Gerente General 
Representante Legal 
Gases del Caribe S.A. E.S.P. 
K
54
No. 59-144 
Barranquilla 
Republic of Colombia 
Facsimile: (57-5) 3441348; 
 
Telephone: (57-5) 3441960 
Mr. Luis Guillermo Otoya 
Gerente General 
Representante Legal 
Surtigas S.A. E.S.P. 
Avenida Pedro de Heredia (Sector Armenia) 
Calle 31 No. 47-30 
Cartagena 
Republic of Colombia 
Facsimile: (57-59) 6627766; 
 
Telephone: (57-59) 6625420 
 
Mr. Rolland Pinedo Daza 
Gerente 
Representante Legal 
Gases de la Guajira S.A. E.S.P. 
Carrera 15 No. 14C-33 
Riohacha 
Republic of Colombia 
Facsimile: (57-5) 273343; 
 
Telephone: (51-5) 273464 
 
Mr. Magin Ortiga Pareja 
Gerente 
Representante Legal 
Gases de Occidente S.A. E.S.P. 
Centro Comercial Chipichape Bodega 2 P-4 
Cali 
Republic of Colombia 
Facsimile:  (51-2) 4187345; 
 
Telephone: (57-2) 4187305 
 
Page  5
4
For the Fiduciary Agent: 
Ms. Lucia Ruiz 
Directora Ejecutiva 
Representante Legal 
Fundación Promigas 
Calle 66 No. 67-123 
Barranquilla 
Republic of Colombia 
Facsimile: (57-5) 37133333 ext. 289; 
Telephone: (57-5) 3713289 
 
For the World Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
Address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INTBAFRAD 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 64145 
(MCI) 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
FUNDACIÓN PROMIGAS 
 
By /s/ Lucia Ruiz 
Authorized Representative 
 
GASES DEL CARIBE S.A. E.S.P. 
 
By /s/ Ramón Dávila 
Authorized Representative 
 
SURTIGAS  S.A. E.S.P. 
 
By /s/ Luis Guillermo Otoya 
Authorized Representative 
 
GASES DE LA GUAJIRA S.A. E.S.P. 
 
By /s/ Rolland Pinedo Daza 
Authorized Representative 
 
GASES DE OCCIDENTE S.A. E.S.P. 
 
By /s/ Magin Ortiga Pareja 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as Administrator of the Global Partnership on Output-based Aid 
 
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist in the connection by the Recipients of about 
35,000 Beneficiary Households to the natural gas distribution network in the territory of the 
Republic of Colombia. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
:
Promotion and Establishment of New Natural Gas Service Connections
(a) 
Marketing of the natural gas connections to eligible Beneficiary Households, 
including carrying out of at least one public stakeholder consultation event by 
each Recipient. 
 (b) 
Installing of natural gas connections for about 35,000 Beneficiary Households.
 
Part 2
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) 
Coordination of the allocation of Grant funds among the Recipients by soliciting 
quarterly projections of connections to be made, and on this basis, making 
tentative projections of fund allocation for planning purposes. 
(b) 
Consolidation and processing for payment of withdrawal applications, based on 
Stratification Certificates, Technical Certificates and Installation of Connection 
Certificates as held by the Recipients. 
(c) 
Carrying out of audits and of monitoring and evaluation activities to assess the 
progress and performance in the implementation of the Project, including: (i) a 
semi-annual assessment of progress of works under Part 1 of the Project; and (ii) 
spot checks on connections made under Part 1 of the Project. 
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Implementation 
Arrangements 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipients and the Fiduciary Agent have adopted the Project operational 
manual dated May 12, 2006 (the Operational Manual), satisfactory in form and 
substance to the World Bank, which includes, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the detailed description of project implementation and activities, 
including: (A) their sequencing and the prospective timetable and 
benchmarks in relation thereto; (B) the institutional arrangements in 
respect thereof, including the allocation of duties between the Recipients 
and the Fiduciary Agent; and (C) the terms and conditions for their 
respective participation and all related procedures;  
 
(ii) 
the Project’s administrative, accounting, financial, disbursement and 
procurement procedures and associated standard documents and model 
contracts in relation thereto;
 
(iii) 
the Environmental and Social Corrective Action Plan
 
setting forth the 
guidelines for mitigating potential harmful effects of Project 
implementation; 
 
(iv) 
the eligibility criteria for the Beneficiary Households;  
 
(v) 
the criteria applicable to the new natural gas connections to be installed 
by the Recipients for the benefit of Beneficiary Households and subject, 
upon verification of the satisfaction of those criteria, to financing out of 
Grant proceeds, including model forms for the Stratification Certificate, 
the Technical Certificate and the Installation of Connection Certificate; 
 
(vi) 
the plan for the monitoring and supervision of the Project, including all 
environmental and social aspects in relation thereto; and 
 
(vii) 
the performance indicators for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipients and the Fiduciary Agent shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with any one 
under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Page  9
8
3. 
The Recipients and the Fiduciary Agent may amend the Operational Manual from time to 
time only with the World
 Bank’s prior written consent. 
 
4. 
The Recipients shall: 
 
(a) 
furnish to the Fiduciary Agent quarterly projections for the scope of subsidized 
connections for their respective service area, including a breakdown of 
Beneficiary Households according to income strata; 
 
(b) 
collect and retain for subsequent audit a Stratification Certificate for each 
Beneficiary Household to be connected; 
 
(c) 
install the natural gas connections for the eligible Beneficiary Households, in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(d) 
collect and retain for subsequent audit an Installation of Connection Certificate 
for each Beneficiary Household upon installation of a connection; 
 
(e) 
issue and retain for subsequent audit a Technical Certificate upon installation of a 
new connection; 
 
(f) 
provide services to the connected Beneficiary Households in accordance with the 
applicable regulatory provisions upon installation of a new connection; 
 
(g) 
furnish to the Fiduciary Agent a written confirmation for each new connection of 
the collection of (i) the corresponding Stratification Certificates; (ii) the 
corresponding Installation of Connection Certificates; (iii) the corresponding 
Technical Certificates; and (iv) the billing records for three months, providing 
evidence of actual use of the new connection;  
 
(h) 
submit requests for applications for withdrawal to the Fiduciary Agent for new 
connections; and 
 
(i) 
each maintain its own administrative unit responsible for financial and budget 
management, reporting and accounting. 
 
5. 
The Fiduciary Agent shall: 
 
(a) 
oversee and coordinate compliance with the provisions of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
coordinate, on the basis of the quarterly projections submitted by the Recipients, 
the allocation of Grant funds among the Recipients and communicate to the 
Recipients their projected quarterly allocation of the Grant proceeds no later than 
60 days before the end of the preceding quarter; 
Page  10
9
(c) 
make semi-annual withdrawal applications to the World Bank on behalf of the 
Recipients, based on the number of new connections made and the corresponding 
(i) requests for withdrawal applications referred to in paragraph 4 (h) above; (ii) 
Stratification Certificates; (iii) Installation of Connection Certificates; (iv) 
Technical Certificates; and (v) billing records for three months; and 
 
(d) 
share with the World Bank, for information and tracking purposes the connection 
projections as submitted by the Recipients and the projected quarterly allocations 
no later than 60 days before the end of the preceding quarter. 
 
6. 
Not later than 3 months after the date of this Agreement, the Fiduciary Agent shall 
appoint independent auditors,
 
subject to prior approval of the World Bank,
 
to carry out:  
 
(a)  
annual financial audits in respect of the Project, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II.B.3 of this Schedule, including the verification of 
expenditures made in respect of the Project and the rate and status of the 
disbursements made in respect of the Project; and 
 
(b)  
semi-annual technical audits of completed new natural gas connections of the: (i)        
number of such connections made, including the verification of corresponding 
Stratification Certificates, Installation of Connection Certificates and Technical 
Certificates; (ii) number of Beneficiary Households benefiting from the said new 
connections; and (iii) value of contributions made by Beneficiary Households in 
respect of their new connections. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Fiduciary Agent shall monitor and evaluate or cause to be monitored and evaluated 
the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the performance indicators 
set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank, DNP and 
Acción Social
 not 
later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar semester. 
 
2. 
The Fiduciary Agent shall prepare the Recipient’s Completion Report pursuant to Section 
2.06 (d) of the Standard Conditions no later than six months after the Closing Date. In 
addition, the Fiduciary Agent shall prepare two additional reports (“Post Project 
Reports”), each in such scope and in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the plan set out in the Implementation Completion Report, 
and setting out measures designed to ensure the continued efficient and effective 
achievement of the Project’s objectives. The Fiduciary Agent shall furnish the Post-
Project Reports to the World Bank no later than one month after the first and second 
anniversaries of the Closing Date, respectively. 
Page  11
10
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipients and the Fiduciary Agent shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the 
Standard Conditions. 
 
2.
 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipients and the 
Fiduciary Agent shall prepare and furnish to the World Bank as part of the Project Report 
not later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the World Bank. 
 
3. 
The Recipients and the Fiduciary Agent shall have their Financial Statements for the 
Project audited, in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of the Recipients and the Fiduciary Agent. The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the 
end of such period. Said audits shall also include the review referred to in Section III.D of 
this Schedule 2. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods 
and 
Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of particular contracts, 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement which may be used for goods and works required to enable the 
connections referred to in Part 1(b) of the Project. 
 
Page  12
11
Procurement Method 
(a) Standard practices of each Recipient which 
have been found acceptable to the Bank, for 
goods and works procured by such Recipient 
under Part 1 (b) of the Project (see Bank 
Operational Memorandum on the Application of 
Paragraph 3.13 of the Procurement Guidelines 
to Cases Involving Incumbent Concessionaires, 
November 7, 2005).  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 C
onsultants’ services required for Part 2 of the 
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based 
Selection. 
 
2.
 Other
 Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement 
which may be used for consultants’ services to 
enable the connections referred to in Part 1(b) of the Project. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Standard practices of each Recipient 
which have been found acceptable to the 
Bank, for consultants’ services procured by 
the Recipients under Part 1(b) of the 
Project. 
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
All contracts financed in whole or in part by the Grant shall be subject to Post Review by 
the World Bank as part of the audits referred to in Section II.B of this Schedule 2. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General 
1. 
The Fiduciary Agent, on its own behalf and that of the Recipients, may withdraw the 
proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the provisions of Article III of the Standard 
Conditions and of this Section and such additional instructions as the World Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipients and the Fiduciary Agent. 
Page  13
12
 2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of  
Expenditures to be  
Financed
(1)  Payments for natural gas 
connections for Beneficiary 
Households under Part 1(b) of 
the Project, at a rate of USD 
141 equivalent per connection 
 4,935,000 
100% 
(2)  Services under Part 2 of 
the Project 
 150,000
100 % 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
5,085,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is March 31, 
2008. 
Page  14
13
 APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“
Acción Social
”
means 
Agencia Presidencial para la Acción Social y la Cooperación 
Internacional, 
the Republic of Colombia’s Presidential Agency for Social Action and 
International Cooperation. 
2. 
“Beneficiary Household” means a household pertaining to income stratum 1 or 2 in any 
of the Selected Departments under the Project, as further determined by the local 
municipalities according to the rules issued by DNP, and in accordance with the 
Operational Manual. 
3. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 2004. 
5. “DNP” 
means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación, 
the Republic of Colombia’s 
National Planning Department. 
6. 
 “Dollar”, “$” and “USD” each means the lawful currency of the United States of 
America. 
7. 
 “Environmental and Social Corrective Action Plan” means the plan referred to in Section 
I.A.1. (a) (iii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, satisfactory to the World Bank, adopted 
by the Recipients and the Fiduciary Agent and submitted to the World Bank on April 5, 
2006, setting forth measures to mitigate any adverse impacts to the environment. 
8. 
 “Installation of Connection Certificate” means the signed and dated letter collected from 
each Beneficiary Household upon installation of a new natural gas connection, indicating 
the household’s acceptance of the connection subsidy and the discount to the connection 
fee in the amount of the subsidy payment. 
9. 
 “Operational Manual” means the comprehensive manual referred to in Section I.A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
10. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004. 
11. 
“Selected Departments” means the departments of 
Atlantico, Magdalena, Bolivar, Sucre, 
Cordoba, Valle del Cauca 
and 
La Guajira
 in the territory of the Republic of Colombia 
where Project implementation is intended to take place in accordance with the 
Operational Manual. 
Page  15
14
12. 
“Standard Conditions” means the “Standard Conditions for Grants made by the World 
Bank as Administrator of the Global Partnership on Output-based Aid” dated March 22, 
2006. 
13. 
“Stratification Certificate” means the written confirmation by the local municipalities that 
a
household is an eligible Beneficiary Household according to the rules issued by DNP, 
and in accordance with the Operational Manual. 
14. “Technical 
Certificate” 
or 
Formulario de Verificación, Diseño y Certificación de 
Instalaciones Internas
 means the document issued by the Recipients through their 
Unidades Técnicas de Inspección
,
certifying that a new natural gas connection meets the 
technical rules and regulations applicable to the natural gas sector in the Republic of 
Colombia. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the Standard Conditions 
The modifications to the 
“Standard Conditions for Grants made by the World Bank as 
Administrator of the Global Partnership on Output-based Aid” dated March 22, 2006 are as 
follows: 
 
1. 
The provisions of Section 5.03, 
Arbitration, 
are deleted in their entirety and replaced by 
the following: 
 
“Section 5.03. 
Arbitration
.
Any dispute, controversy, or claim arising out of or relating to 
the Grant Agreement, which has not been settled by agreement of the parties, shall be 
submitted to arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in effect on 
the date of the Grant Agreement, and the following provisions: 
 
(a) 
the appointing authority shall be the Secretary-General of the Permanent Court of 
Arbitration;  
 
(b) 
the place of arbitration shall be determined by the World Bank, after consultation 
with the Recipient; and  
 
(c) 
the language of the arbitral proceedings shall be English.”
 
