Page  1
P
ROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
36932 
Project Name 
Colombia-
 
Improved Access to Natural Gas Services Project 
Region 
LATINA AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Oil & Gas 
Project ID 
P102095 
Borrower(s) 
Fundacion Promigas 
Implementing Agency 
Fundacion Promigas, Gases del Caribe SA, Surtigas SA, Gases de la Guajira 
SA, Gases de Occidente SA 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
x
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
July 11, 2005 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 10, 2006 
Estimated Date of Approval 
May 10, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Colombia has achieved a large and rapid expansion in natural gas penetration, bringing major 
economic and social benefits to the urban population. Following expansion of the natural gas 
transportation network during the second half of the 1990s, coverage of natural gas in urban areas 
nationwide currently has reached more than 3.5 million homes throughout 382 municipalities in the 
country.  This represents a total population of 17 million, or about 40% of the total population of 
the country, of which about 85% belong to the poorer socioeconomic strata of Colombian society.  
The arrival of natural gas has brought substantial benefits to the urban population. First, natural gas 
is a far more economic fuel for domestic cooking and heating than LPG or any of the other 
commonly used alternatives, meeting basic household needs at about half of the equivalent cost for 
LPG or electricity. Second, natural gas is much safer than highly flammable alternatives, such as 
gasoline, wood and cocinol. However, the key barrier that often prevents households reaping these 
benefits is the high switching costs, amounting to around US$400, which includes both the 
connection fee to the network, and inhouse installations. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The proposed objective of the project is to expand access to natural gas services for low income families, 
using an Output Based-Aid approach.
 The proposed GPOBA grant would provide a connection cost 
subsidy (equivalent to about US$140 per connection). The remaining conversion cost will be 
financed by the local gas distribution companies with financing plans tailored to individual 
household needs and with tenors of up to six years. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The project will be implemented by Fundacion Promigas, a social work foundation established by 
Promigas, and four distribution companies, which will jointly enter into a grant agreement with 
GPOBA. Payments are made directly from GPOBA against eligible outputs. Fundacion Promigas 
will retain the services of an audit firm
to carry out monitoring and auditing of financial 
management, including a) an annual assessment of progress of works under the OBA scheme; (b) 
spot checks or audit on connections made, c) verification of expenditures under the project. 
 
Page  2
Local distribution companies Surtigas, Gas del Caribe, Gases de Occidente or Gases de la Guajira 
will conduct public consultations with target communities to refine the implementation of the 
program, and will handle applications for subsidized house connections (to be made individually by 
households), assess for eligibility against strata criteria established by National Planning Department 
and applied by the relevant municipal authorities, raise financing to make connections, undertake the 
physical works necessary to connect households, and retain certificates of connection installation 
and related billing records for auditing purposes. 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
As a result of the nature of the project, Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) is expected to be triggered. 
An Environmental Analysis (EA) will be carried out to assess the safeguard issues. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Global Partnership On Output-Based Aid (GPOBA) 
 
$5.15 m 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Dirk Sommer 
Title: Senior Infrastructure Specialist 
Tel: 202-458-8293 
Email dsommer@worldbank.org
 
