                               Document of
                            The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR0000967




        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (TF-56541 TF-57406)




                                   ON A

                                   Grant

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF
                    US$ 5.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                  TO THE

                            Fundación Promigas

                                  FOR A

            Natural Gas Distribution for Low Income Families

                     in the Caribbean Coast Project




                            September 15, 2008




GPOBA
Colombia
LAC

        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective 03/31/08)

    Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (COP)
              US$ 1.00 = 1,821.60



    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARI    Acute Lower Respiratory Infection
AVAD   Años de Vida Ajustados a la Discapacidad (Disability-
       adjusted Life Year)
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
COP    Colombian Peso
COPD   Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
DALY   Disability-adjusted Life Year
DFID   Department for International Development
DGIS   Directorate General for International Cooperation
DNP    Colombian Department of National Planning
ESE    Estratificación Socio-Económica
EPOC   Enfermedad Pulmonar Obstructiva Crónica (Chronic
       Obstructive Pulmonary Disease)
FM     Financial Management
GND    Natural Gas
GPOBA  Global Partnership on Output-based Aid
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
IFC    International Finance Corporation
IVA    Independent Verification Agent
LOA    World Bank Loan Department
LPG    Liquefied Petroleum Gas
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
OBA    Output-based Aid
PDO    Project Development Objective
TCF    Trillion Cubic Feet
TTL    Task Team Leader




         Vice President: Pamela Cox

       Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg

        Sector Manager: Susan Goldmark

    Project Team Leader: Cledan Mandri-Perrott

      ICR Team Leader: Lars Johannes

                                               Colombia



                Natural Gas Distribution for Low Income Families

                           in the Caribbean Coast Project




                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................6
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome...........................................................7
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance........................................................8
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................10
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors...............11
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................12
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................13
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................14
 Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.......16
 Annex 5. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR........................17
 Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................18
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Natural Gas
                                                                    Distribution for Low
Country:                Colombia              Project Name:
                                                                    Income Families in the
                                                                    Caribbean Coast.
Project ID:             P102095               L/C/TF Number(s):     TF-56541,TF-57406
ICR Date:               04/06/2009            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    FUNDACION
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Grantee:
                                                                    PROMIGAS
Original Total
                        USD 8.6M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 4.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Gases del Caribe S.A. E.S.P
Surtigas S.A. E.S.P.
Gases de la Guajira S.A. E.S.P.
Gases del Occidente S.A. E.S.P.
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:                      Effectiveness:        07/14/2006
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/19/2006    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:              03/31/2008        03/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                          Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Highly Satisfactory



                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                          Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Oil and gas                                                       100               100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                       At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                          Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Axel van Trotsenburg                Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:            Susan G. Goldmark                   Susan G. Goldmark
Project Team Leader:       Xavier Cledan Mandri-Perrott        Xavier Cledan Mandri-Perrott
ICR Team Leader:           Lars Johannes
ICR Primary Author:        Lars Johannes



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to connect to the natural gas distribution network an
estimate of 35,000 families of the Colombian Caribbean and Western Coast in the income
strata 1 and 2 (as per government classification).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                 ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                             documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Connect up to 35,000 household to the natural gas distribution network.
Value
quantitative or 0                         35,000                             35,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2006                 12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments        100% - All connections were made, but for 862 households households
(incl. %        connections were made after Jan 08 so that the disbursement trigger of three
achievement)    months of service could not be satisfied.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval         Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Provide 35,000 households with three months of service after connection.
Value
(quantitative   0                         35,000                             34,138
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2006                 12/31/2007                          03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        98%
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               iii

I. Disbursement Profile




                           iv

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Colombia is slowly showing signs of recovery after years of guerrilla warfare and
insurgency. The number of Colombians living below the poverty line has declined by
over 5 percentage points from 2002 to 2004 (to 52.6%). Over 1.4 m people moved out of
poverty between 2002-2004, reducing the number of poor to approximately 23 million,
and over 1.5 million moved out of extreme poverty in the same period.

In Colombia, the highest levels of unsatisfied needs, poverty and misery are present in the
population living in the Caribbean Coast. Households are formed by 5 to 7 members and
children are forced to work from an early age; the average family income, based on the
informal economy, is less than the monthly legal minimum wage of US$168 equivalent.

Colombia has proven natural gas reserves estimated at 4.2 trillion cubic feet (TCF),
which, at current production rates of 0.28 TCF per year, should be sufficient to provide
approximately 15 years of continuous consumption, a relatively large reserve-to-
production ratio taking into account other countries which are also significant gas users
such as the United States (reserve-to-production ratio of approximately 9.6 years).

Colombia has achieved a large and rapid expansion in natural gas penetration, bringing
major economic and social benefits to the urban population. Following expansion of the
natural gas transportation network during the second half of the 1990s, coverage of
natural gas in urban areas nationwide had reached more than 3.5 million homes
throughout 382 municipalities in the country at the beginning of the project. This
represents a total population of 17 million, or about 40% of the total population of the
country, of which about 85% belong to the poorer socioeconomic strata of Colombian
society.   The arrival of natural gas has brought substantial benefits to the urban
population. First, natural gas is a far more economic fuel for domestic cooking and
heating than LPG or any of the other commonly used alternatives, meeting basic
household needs at about half of the equivalent cost for LPG or electricity. Second,
natural gas is much safer than highly flammable alternatives, such as gasoline and wood.

However, the key barrier that often prevents households reaping these benefits is the high
switching costs, amounting to around US$400. The target households in strata 1 and 2
cannot afford the connection fee of US$3701 (more than 220% of their annual income),
despite local distribution company financing plans up to 6 years. The proposed US$5.0
million GPOBA subsidy would provide a 38% connection cost subsidy (equivalent to
US$141 per connection). The remaining connection cost of US$229 will be financed by
the local gas distribution companies with financing plans of six years.

Promigas is Colombia's largest private gas transmission and distribution Company,
accounting for approximately 51% of the total gas transported in the country. The
recipient is Fundación Promigas, a charitable foundation funded by Promigas. Promigas
holds stakes in several natural gas transmission and distribution companies. Four of


1Equivalent to COP$850,000 (at appraisal)



                                             1

those distribution companies Surtigas, Gases del Caribe, Gases de la Guajira and Gases
del Occidente were implementing agencies for the project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The primary objective of the OBA scheme is to connect to the natural gas distribution
network an estimated 35,000 families in the lowest income strata (1 and 2) in the
Colombian Caribbean Coast and to demonstrate demand by providing evidence for three
months of paid bills for gas consumption. To make sure that households are able to
benefit from the service they will be provided with a basic stove.

New gas connections are expected to contribute to the following:

·   Health: use of natural gas directly improves safety by reducing fire hazards and
    smoke-induced respiratory diseases, especially in children

·   Environment: Natural gas also offers substantial benefits relative to fuels such as fuel
    oil and diesel, through far lower emissions. Depending on the type of fuel, these
    benefits can include emissions reductions in nitrogen oxides (up to 63%); suspended
    particles (up to 66%); and carbon monoxide (up to 93%). Due to the replacement of
    firewood as fuel in the target area, it is estimated that the implementation of the
    project would result in preservation of up to 34 hectares of forest or mangrove swamp
    land

·   Finances: For the residential sector, gas competes with LPG and electricity for
    cooking and water heating. LPG and electricity prices are typically 1.4 and 4 times
    the price of gas, respectively. Estimates indicate that typical residential consumers,
    using 20 m3 per month in stratum 2, save between US$10 and US$19/month,
    respectively.

Key indicators are the number of connections made to strata 1 and 2 households for
which a stove was provided and three bills for gas consumption were collected.

1.3 Revised PDO
No revision

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
Eligibility to the subsidies is restricted to households in strata 1 and 2 of the
Estratificación Socio-Económica (ESE) rating system. The ESE is a means proxy-means
testing targeting instrument has been in operation since 1965. This system classifies
neighborhoods and rural areas in six strata, 1 to 6 (from poor to rich) based on the
external characteristics of houses and neighborhoods. It is applied by municipalities for
urban and rural areas following procedures and guidelines provided by the National
Planning Department (DNP). It is based on a questionnaire that is applied in the field by
trained people and a weighting system (not known publicly) to get to the six strata.



2The average per household consumption even for strata 1 households has been confirmed at about
20cbm/month by the government information system for the sector (Sistema Unico de Informacion de
Servicios Publicos - http://www.sui.gov.co);




                                                  2

1.5 Original Components
Component 1: Promotion and Establishment of New Natural Gas Service Connections

The grant recipient was responsible for marketing the natural gas connections to eligible
beneficiary households, including carrying out of at least one public stakeholder
consultation event by each recipient. The main project activity consisted in installing
natural gas connections for about 35,000 Beneficiary households, providing such
households with basic gas stoves and providing on-going service. The recipients are to
provide evidence of collected bills of at least three months of consumption per connected
household.

Component 2: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

Promigas is responsible for coordinating the allocation of grant funds among the gas
distribution companies and for consolidating and processing payments of withdrawal
applications, based on Stratification Certificates, Technical Certificates and Installation
of Connection Certificates as held by the Recipients.
The auditor of Promigas is responsible for carrying out of audits and of monitoring and
evaluation activities to assess the progress and performance in the implementation of the
Project, including spot checks on connections made under Part 1 of the Project.

1.6 Revised Components
No revision

1.7 Other significant changes
Before the start of project implementation the Grant Agreement was amended to include
the International Finance Corporation (IFC) as a donor, in addition to the original donor,
the United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project built on the experiences gathered by a pilot project funded by the Dutch
Directorate General for International Cooperation (DGIS). This project of approx. US$
1.54m aimed at connecting 10,003 households between July 1, 2005 and June 30, 2007.
This initial pilot project had focused exclusively on unconnected areas and subsidized all
strata 1 and 2 households, including such that could have afforded the service without
subsidies.

The following lessons from the pilot were incorporated in the project:

·   Project focused mainly on increasing the number of gas customers in areas that
    already had access to gas. As many of the strata 1 and 2 households that could afford
    service without a subsidy were already connected to the gas grid, this decision
    increased the targeting effectiveness of the project.

·   Project introduced payments from the donor to Promigas that were only disbursed
    after connections were made and verified. The DGIS project relied on the
    disbursements of advances into a special account held by Promigas, which was used
    to make connections on an output-basis.


                                              3

·   As was the case with the pilot, the project provided beneficiaries with a stove to
    enable them to benefit from the access to natural gas and using the social stratification
    system for targeting.

The project preparation included the analysis of a number of risk factors, such as the
demand risk for gas connection and exchange rate related risks. The demand risk was
substantial, given that natural gas was a new service for all beneficiaries and for some
beneficiaries it was the first utility service at all that required them to regularly pay bills.
The output-based design mainly transferred to the project's implementing agency, which
took a number of steps to reach out to potential beneficiaries and to encourage demand.

The four participating distribution utilities were responsible for ensuring a participatory
process of project implementation and for marketing gas connections (at the subsidized
rate) to eligible low income households. To ensure involvement of the beneficiaries and
publicity as to the availability of subsidized connections, the beneficiary and
implementing agencies organized outreach activities and a local media campaign.
Outreach activities included the participation of mayors and other community
representatives.

2.2 Implementation
The project was not restructured and was never at risk. The use of output-based aid
facilitated regular output reporting and independent verification that outputs had been
delivered.

The implementing agency faced several minor challenges it resolved without need for
intervention from the Bank. Initially beneficiaries were reluctant to apply for
connections, as for a number of them natural gas is the first service they receive that
requires them to pay regular bills. This prompted the implementing agencies to increase
outreach and communication efforts.

Another issue was that some beneficiaries preferred not to use gas until the credit for the
connection was paid down. As a result there was a risk that a substantial portion of
households would not meet the disbursement criterion that required three months of
successful billing. Implementation agencies took a number of steps to promote the use of
gas, to be described in more detail in the lessons learned section. Only a total 863
connections (2% of planned connections) were ineligible for re-imbursement at the end of
the project, because the implementing agency could not meet this criterion.

During project implementation the US$ devaluated against the COP, leading to confusion
regarding the disbursement arrangements. The disbursement letter states that funds would
be disbursed in COP "using the exchange rate in effect at the date disbursements are
processed by the Bank". However, the recipient requested and the Bank made the first
disbursement in US$. As it became apparent that the US$ devaluation would result in
significantly lower unit subsidies, the recipient requested disbursements to be made in
COP, to which the LOA officer agreed. The recipient took this to be an agreement that
allowed charging the real unit subsidy granted to the beneficiaries of COP 325,000, not
the subsidy of US$ 141 in COP using the exchange rate in effect at the date
disbursements are processed by the Bank. As a result the recipient requested
disbursements that were higher than the amount agreed in the project documentation,



                                               4

which were approved by LOA. When this mistake was discovered, the TTL requested the
recipient to adjust future disbursement request and deduct any excess payments made
from the next disbursement request. The recipient agreed to this.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The grant recipient had the primary responsibility for monitoring project progress. The
beneficiary used its existing costumer database to report on outputs provided as well as
consumption patterns and bills paid of project beneficiaries.

The output reports and project accounts were audited by Deloitte, acting as auditor for the
project and independent verification agent (IVA).            Deloitte verified eligibility of
beneficiaries and that the criteria for disbursement of Bank funds were met for all
reported households. The verification process included visits to a random sample of 300
households to physically verify connections, presence of a subsidized stove and three
month of billed consumption.

The recipient retained the University of Cartagena to do a study, validating the
development impacts on indoor air pollution of the project. The study fund a significant
reduction in respiratory diseases as a result of the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Fundación Promigas complied satisfactorily with Bank fiduciary policy and standard
requirements. The project management staff was skilled in its tasks. Project statements
of expenditure and disbursement requests were submitted in a timely manner, as were the
audit reports. The procurement of consultant services and goods were conducted in full
compliance with the applicable Bank procurement guidelines and principles. No internal
control issues arose to during project implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The project beneficiaries are showing an excellent payment record, with only 2% of bills
unpaid within thirty days of billing. This supports the argument that there is a sustainable
demand for the service at existing tariffs as a result of natural gas being more cost
effective than alternative sources of energy.

The subsidized connections are being serviced on an on-going basis by the implementing
agencies, which have a demonstrated capacity to do so. All beneficiaries belong to strata I
and II of the social stratification system and are entitled to a tariff subsidized, which are
funded out of a national subsidy fund. This subsidy is funded by higher charges for the
two wealthiest strata and is not a typical cross-subsidy, that distribution companies
receive higher revenues from wealthier private and commercial clients regardless of the
number of poor customers served. Instead, distribution companies have to apply for
subsidy reimbursement from the subsidy fund, based on the amount of service actually
provided to subsidized beneficiaries. This provides distribution companies with an
incentive to provide sustainable service to subsidized customers.

The recipient was requested to report on the status of the project at the first and second
anniversary of the closing of the project. Both recipient and implementing agencies are
interested in continuing the project, but need to identify additional sources of grant
funding.



                                              5

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project had the twin goals of piloting output-based aid and achieving development
objectives.

The 2002 CAS calls for "adequate provision of physical infrastructure" as the "third key
element in returning Colombia to a path of fast and sustainable growth". The projects
objective of working with the private sector to improve infrastructure services to the poor
is in line with the goals of the CAS. The project was based on the findings of a 2004
World Bank report on Recent Economic Developments in Infrastructure in Colombia
(document 32085). The document highlights the benefits of the use of natural gas in areas
that can be economically connected to the gas grid.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The main objective of the project of piloting OBA as an approach to provide
infrastructure services and to connect approximately 35,000 families in the lowest income
in the Colombian Caribbean Coast to the natural gas grid and to demonstrate demand by
providing evidence for three months of paid bills for gas consumption was fully achieved.
The average consumption of beneficiaries for the first three months billed has been
approximately 13m3.

While the gas connection, delivery of a stove and minimum consumption targets are
being referred to as "output" for the purpose of output-based payment, providing access
to the natural gas grid and ensuring the three months of consumption and successful
billing can be more appropriately considered a intermediate project outcome for the
purpose of project evaluation.

Other outcomes of the project are estimated, based on empirical studies of benefits of gas
connections undertaken by the grant recipient. This is considered the best approximation
of benefits accruing to the project, as the small size of the project and broad geographic
scope is not expected to allow seeing a discernable impact on aggregate figures of health
expenditures, the environment and economic growth.

Studies undertaken by the Health Economics Group of the University of Cartagena on
behalf of Fundación Promigas, show that the reduction in respiratory diseases caused by
the connections funded under the project has resulted in significant health expenditure
savings. The study found that the project's impact on respiratory illnesses was highly
cost-effective (US$ 20 per disability adjusted life year saved ­ DALY) compared to
pneumococcal vaccine (between US$ 154 and US$ 5,252 in different countries in Latin
America). The project is estimated to have avoided over 5,500 outpatient visits and
nearly 1,700 hospitalizations during the study period. For every US$ 100 of subsidy, the
project is expected to provide between US$ 65 and 96 of benefits per year, resulting from
a reduced burden of disease and economic savings.

Given that the project has been fully implemented, it is expected that the reduction in
firewood used has resulted in preservation of up to 34 hectares of forest or mangrove
swamp land (see PDOs).




                                             6

3.3 Efficiency
The project is estimated to cost US$ 20 per DALY gained (compared to at least US$ 154
per DALY for pneumococcal vaccines). This means that the project can achieve health
outcomes more cost-effectively than many health care interventions.

Discounting the consumption subsidy provided by the Colombian state for strata I and II,
the economic rate of return of the project over 10 years is 62%, taking into account cost
savings for medical treatments and expenditures as well as economic savings due to
households switching to natural gas.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Highly satisfactory

The project has delivered the expected results within the existing time frame, despite
adverse conditions caused by the US$ devaluation. The highly innovative approach
required the grant recipient as well as the implementing agencies to adapt their way of
operating to local conditions. This is particularly evident in how the implementing
agencies reached out to potential beneficiaries to provide many of them with the first
utility service that requires them to pay monthly bills. The very high rate of bills paid by
the beneficiaries indicates the demand for natural gas and satisfaction with the service.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project has exclusively focused on delivering gas connections to households from the
two poorest strata. Connections to wealthier households were not eligible for
reimbursement. The project has retained an independent verification agent to ensure that
the targeting criteria of the project were met.

The use of natural gas helps poor households in that it both reduces expenditures on
alternative sources of energy and time spent in gathering fuel wood. While the former has
an immediate impact on disposable income, the latter frees time for more productive
activity or, in cases where children are responsible for gathering fire wood, for education.

A reduction in indoor air pollution as a result of the use of natural gas has been shown to
be a cost-effective health intervention, reducing both the burden of disease and medical
expenditure. The benefits accrue chiefly to women, who traditionally have the task of
food preparation and children, who are frequently at home, being exposed to smoke. This
improvement in child health is also beneficial for women who bear the main burden of
giving care to children.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project relied on existing structures.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None identified.



4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low


                                              7

Colombia has abundant reserves of natural gas and gas consumption for the two lowest
strata of the population is subsidized out of a fund replenished with a levy on gas
companies. The implementing agencies have a record of continuous service provision
with very short interruptions, mainly for the purpose of maintenance.

Both beneficiaries of the project and households from strata I and II have very good
payment records with only 2% of bills unpaid 30 days after billing. This is an indication
that prices are affordable to the target group and that the target group has a demand for
natural gas.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The project preparation ensured a high likelihood of meeting PDOs. The selected grant
recipient and implementing agency had demonstrated an excellent track record and a
proven capacity to deliver the outputs. The selection of competent implementing agencies
was instrumental to ensuring the project's success. As the output-based approach resulted
in funding only being disbursed after independent verification of output delivery, the risk
to the Bank was at all times low.

The output-based nature of the project shifted the demand risk and other operational risks
to the recipient and implementing agencies. This ensured a very strong ownership and
helped to ensure that PDOs were reached. As a result the recipient and implementing
agencies took actions to address the initial slow up-take of the project.

The combination of self-reporting through the implementing agencies database with
independent verification of outputs ensured that progress was constantly monitored and
the Bank was regularly updated on the number of outputs delivered. Regular progress
reports also provided information on the natural gas consumption of beneficiaries and
estimated expenditure savings.

During project preparation the task team assessed the recipient's procurement and
financial management capacity. As this capacity was found satisfactory the project relied
on the recipient's and implementing agencies' procurement and FM arrangements,
resulting in a more efficient project implementation. The recipient's financial auditor,
Deloitte, which acted at the same time as independent verification agent, had the task to
ensure the recipient's compliance with procurement and FM standards. Using the existing
capacity of the service provider to procure inputs for the project helped to reduce
transaction cost and to speed up implementation. The fixed reimbursement on verified
outputs effectively protected the Bank against procurement and FM-related risks.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The fact that payments were conditional on the delivery of outputs ensured that the
project focused on PDOs. Making three months of successful billing a disbursement


                                              8

condition, helped to transfer an incentive for ensuring that development objectives are
reached to the recipient. A high quality of performance reporting was assured, as
disbursements were conditional on the Bank receiving audited and independently verified
output reports, including names and addresses of beneficiaries, strata they belong to and
consumption of gas for the first three successfully billed months. The accuracy of those
reports was certified by the independent verification agent, reviewing the documentation
and visiting a random sample of households for physical verification.

The use of the recipient's procurement and FM systems, ensured through regular audits
by a reputable audit firm, is considered best practice. The use of an output-based aid
modality in combination with regular audits ensured that the World Bank was protected
against procurement and FM-related risks.

Supervision is not rated as highly satisfactory due to an issue in the disbursement process.
The disbursement letter states that funds would be disbursed in COP "using the exchange
rate in effect at the date disbursements are processed by the Bank". However, the
recipient requested and the Bank made the first disbursement in US$. The Bank agreed to
this. As it became apparent to that the US$ devaluation would result in significantly
lower unit subsidies, the recipient requested disbursements to be made in COP of the full
amount of local currency subsidy of COP 325,000, not the subsidy of US$ 141 in COP
equivalent. As a result the recipient requested disbursements that were higher than the
amount agreed in the project documentation. The Bank approved disbursement for the
higher unit subsidy amount. The Bank and the recipient resolved this issue amicably and
the recipient delivered the agreed outputs, absorbing exchange-rate related losses.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Not applicable ­ no government involvement.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly satisfactory

The implementing agency was selected for its capacity to successfully implement the
project. Gas installations and billing were carried out by the existing staff of the gas
distribution companies, who are successfully providing the same services for
unsubsidized commercial customers. The project was managed out of the recipient's
investment division. Outreach activities were undertaken jointly between the recipient,
implementing agencies and charitable foundations funded by the recipient and
implementing agencies that also were in constant contact with local mayors and other
representatives of beneficiaries.

The recipient's and implementing agencies' efforts in addressing issues arising during the
project preparation is considered best practice. Examples for this are outreach activities to
promote the use of natural gas and the safety concern when installing natural gas
connections in dwellings that were not made of brick. In such cases the implementing



                                              9

agencies built a brick stand on which the gas stove could be operated securely and a low
brick wall where the gas reader could be attached securely.

Both financial audits and verified output reports where delivered in a timely manner.
Reporting relied on the customer and billing databases of the implementing agencies. As
a result of the deteriorating exchange rate, the implementing agencies invested a
significant amount of own funds in providing subsidies to poor households. Similarly the
implementing agencies waived a part of the refund of subsidies for beneficiaries who did
not meet the criterion of three months of successful billing.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

6. Lessons Learned


·   The grant amount was stated in the Grant Agreement as US$ 141 so that the recipient
    and the implementing agencies bore the exchange rate risk of the project. During the
    project duration the value of the COP rose by approximately 30% against the US$.
    The implementing agencies absorbed this shortfall as part of their charitable work.
    However, it cannot be expected that recipients or implementing agencies habitually
    absorb currency fluctuations, as in most cases the effect of such fluctuations would
    surpass their financial strength. Therefore careful consideration should be given to
    structuring am mechanism whereby the risk of exposure to foreign currency is not
    placed on the project implementers, just as in a public-private partnership regime the
    risk is typically not placed on the private implementer.

·   Deloitte Touch was auditor of both the recipient and the implementing agencies
    before the project and thus was familiar with the companies and could easily
    appreciate all relevant aspects of the project. Adding auditing of project accounts and
    independent verification of outputs to Deloitte Touches existing tasks helped saving
    money and ensuring smooth operations.

·   The role of Fundación Promigas as grant recipient, administering the project and
    interfacing with the four implementing agencies, has been instrumental for the
    success of the project. Fundación Promigas provided support to the distribution
    companies in selecting beneficiary communities and in targeting beneficiaries.
    Throughout the project Fundación Promigas conducted visits to beneficiary
    communities and helped clarify issues relating to project implementation with the
    implementing agencies

·   The appropriate application of the World Bank's fiduciary procedures to an output-
    based arrangement allowed minimizing the fiduciary risk of the Bank without
    encroaching on the implementers' freedom to use its own systems to deliver outputs.
    The project has confirmed that paying on outputs effectively transfers procurement
    and FM-related risks to service providers.

    The project has addressed this issue by targeting subsidies to areas that already had
    access to the natural gas network for some time, so that households able to afford the
    connection fee were likely already connected when the project started. The recipient



                                              10

    suggested that it may also be possible to construct a targeting tool based on data of
    the health status of households, focusing on areas with high incidence of diseases that
    primarily affect poor people, such as respiratory diseases and diarrhea.

·   While the provision of basic cooking stoves has contributed to the success of the
    project, there were households that already had stoves for the use with LPG. For such
    cases the distribution companies offered vouchers for the value of the basic cooking
    stove that counted towards the cost of connection.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
The recipient and implementing agencies have provided very positive feedback on the
project. The OBA mechanism has enabled them to rely on their own systems, which
significantly has contributed to avoid delays and meeting the project's objectives.

The recipient and implementing agencies raised the issue of exchange rate-related losses.

(b) The Independent Verification Agent
The IVA shares the recipient's view on the appropriateness of OBA and exchange rate
related issues. Additionally, the IVA suggested thinking about using a standardized
format of Interim Financial Reports adapted to the OBA.




                                            11

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Establishment of Natural Gas
                                  4,935,000.00      4,813,458               98%
Connections
Project Management, Monitoring
                                    150,000.00         67,860               45%
and Evaluation
            Total Baseline Cost   5,085,000.00      4,881,318.00            96%

Physical Contingencies
                                          0.00              0.00            N/A

Price Contingencies
                                          0.00              0.00            N/A
             Total Project Costs  5,085,000.00      4,881,318.00            96%
Project Preparation Costs            50,000.00         42,624.17            85%


     Total Financing Required     5,135,000.00      4,923,942.17            96%




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of     Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                    Cofinancing    (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Trust Funds                                     0.00         0.00
Global Partnership on Output-based
                                                5.09         4.88         96%
Aid




                                           12

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Promotion and Establishment of New Natural Gas Service Connections

Gas Distribution       Projected       Verified connections meeting
Company                connections     disbursement criteria

                                       Stratum I   Stratum II    Total

Gases del Occidente          13,000         5,446          8,258 13,704

GasCaribe                    10,000         5,137          2,356   7,493

Surtigas                     10,000         8,030          2,969 10,999

GasGuajira                    2,000           979            963   1,942

Total                        35,000       19,592         14,546 34,138


Component 2: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

The IVA produced 6 verification reports.




                                          13

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
A detailed ex-post cost benefit analysis was undertaken by the University of Cartagena. It
includes analysis on the burden of disease prevented and economic gains resulting from
the project. The ERR analysis focused on benefits from avoided medical treatment costs
and financial savings.

The following tables and figure summarize the findings of the report:




                                            14

15

Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
            Names                             Title                Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation

Dirk Sommer                  Senior Infrastructure Specialist      IEF    TTL

                                                                          Procurement
Luis Tineo                   Senior Procurement Specialist         IEF
                                                                          Specialist

Jeannette Estupinan          Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM FM Specialist

                                                                          Procurement
Jose M. Martinez             Senior Procurement Specialist         LCS
                                                                          Specialist

Jose C. Janeiro              Senior Finance Officer                LCS    Finance Officer

Tatiana Cristina O. de Abreu
                             Finance Analyst                       LOA    Finance Analyst
Souza
Marta A. Cervantes-Miguel    Finance Assistant                     LCS    Finance Assistant

Georgina Dellacha            Consultant                            IEF    Consultant

Luis Fernando Rios

Supervision/ICR
Cledan Mandri-Perrott        Senior Infrastructure Specialist      FEU    TTL
Luis Tineo                   Senior Infrastructure Specialist      FEU    FM Specialist

Otto Bolanos

Claudia Cardenas Garcia      Consultant                            LCS    Consultant

Jeannette Estupinan          Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM FM Specialist



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending

                             Total:                 9.37                 42,624.00
Supervision/ICR

                             Total:                 9.12                 47,358.00




                                               16

Annex 5. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Grantee did not have substantive comments on the ICR.




                                         17

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


Alvis Guzman, Nelson and Luis Alvis Estrada, "Health and economic impact of
connection poor households to natural gas at home in Colombia 2007", Study prepared
for the project, February 2009

Yepes, Luis Augusto, "Colombia: Desarrollo Económico Reciente en Infraestructura:
Balanceando las necesidades sociales y productivas de infraestructura" The World Bank,
September 2004

World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Republic of
Colombia, December 2002




                                          18

MAP




       19

