DowmeMof
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,1&&76%JXc
Report No. 6079-RCI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
October 21, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           CFA Franc (CFAF) a/
US$1.00         e       CFAF   350
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDA         Banque Nationale pour le DEveloppement Agricole (National
Agricultural Bank)
CAA          Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (Debt A ortization Fund)
CIDT         Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le Developpement des Textiles
(Ivorian Company for Textile Development)
CSSPPA       Caisse de Soutien et de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits
Agricoles (Agricultural Price Stabilization Fund)
DPBCG        Direction de la Planification, de la Budgetisation et du
Contr6le de Gestion (Directorate of Planning, Budgeting and
Management Control)
FEW          Moniteur/Encadreur de base (Field Extension Worker)
GVC          Groupement a Vocation Cooperative (Pre-Cooperative Group)
IDESSA       Institut des Savanes (Savanna Research Institute)
IRCA         Institut de Recherche sur le Caoutchouc (Rubber Research
Institute)
IRCC         Institut de Recherche sur le Cafe et le Cacao (Coffee and
Cocoa Research Institute)
IRCT         Institut de Recherche sur le Cotton et les Fibres Textiles
(Cotton and Fibers Research Institute)
IRHO         Institut de Recherche sur les Huiles et Oleagineux (Oils and
Fats Research Institute)
MDR          Ministare du Developpement Rural (Rural Development Ministry)
MRS          Ministere de la Recherche Scientifique (Ministry of Scientific
Research)
MINAG        Ministere de l'Agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture)
MINBU        Ministere du Budget (Ministry of Budget)
PO           Point d'Observation (Experimentation Site)
SATMACI      Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation
Agricole de la Cote d'Ivoire (Company for the Modernization of
Ivorian Agriculture)
SODEPALM     Socift6 pour le Dgveloppement du Palmier a Huile (Oil Palm
Development Company)
SMS          Technicien Specialise (Subject Matter Specialist)
T&V          Formation et Visite (Training and Visit)
FISCAL YEARS
Government, SATMACI, SODEPALM   :        January I - December 31
CIDT                                     October 1 - September 30
PROJECT YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/   The exchange rate of the CFA Franc is fixed at 50:1 with the French
Franc, which is a floating currency.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
w                           ~~~~~~~~Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE ........................   iii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................               v
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ........................       ix
I.        INTRODUCTION .... 
II.       ECONOMIC PROSPECTS  .......        ............             2
II.      THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR      .....................   .    2
A. Main Features .....    * .... S .......    ..........    2
B. Government Development Strategy ...................    5
C. Bank Strategy and Assistance to IVC Agriculture ....    6
D. Institutional Environment ........... *#.....            8
1. Government Supervisory Bodies        ..................    8
2. Agricultural Extension and Support Services ....    9
E. The Development Agencies: CIDT, SATM&CI, SODEPALM..   16
1. Agencies' Operations and Efficiency ............   16
2. Agencies' Financing and Financial Management ....   21
F. The Pilot Extension Project ........................   22
IV.       THE PROJECT   ........................................   24
A. General ...........................................   24
1. Project Rationale ...      .........................   24
2. Project Concept and Objectives ..... ......   24
3. Project Description ..........................   25
B. Detailed Features                  .................   26
1. Incremental Extension Staff               .....   26
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission
which took place in January 1986 consisting of Messrs. J.P. Chausse
(Mission Leader), J.C. Faydherbe, M. Levy, G. Wightwick, C. A:-.9L and
A. Bah, Ms. V. Mackrandilal, (WAPAA, Abidjan), Mrs. J. Murphy (OPS ,
Mr. Boh4-Gui (SATMACI, Republic of Cote d'Ivoire) and Mr. De Chaz'
(Consultant). Mr. D. Benor (WANVP) provided overall policy gu'e: .e.
Figures and drafting were checked by Mrs. J. Ogang and Mrs. M.L. Kpatchibo
and secretarial work was done by Mrs. C. Guie (WAPAA, Abidjan) and
Ms. Y. Playfair-Scott (WAPAE, Washington).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
2. Adaptive Research ..........  .........      ...   27
3. Training ......................................  29
4. Monitoring and Evaluation ......* ..... ...... .. 29
5. Management and Technical Assistance..........",.  30
6. Civil Works, Transport and Equipment ...........  31
7. Incremental Operating Costs .....32
C. Cost and Financing ....................  32
1. Cost Estimates    ............ .......  32
2. Financing ....................                  ,   , 34
3. Procurement ..................... ..........  35
4. Disbursements *.e....... *..........  *......  36
5. Reporting, Accounts and Audits .................  39
D. Project Implementation, Organization and Management  40
1. Organization of Extension Services ....0.........   40
2. Research and Development ..... ..................  42
3. Training ............................***  44
4. Monitvring and Evaluation .........   .............  44
5. Agenciest Management  .......................... 46
6. Current Status of Project Preparation ...*.......   48
E. Benefits and Risks ...................           ...  49
1. Benefits ...............49
2. Risks     .      .... *0****..        .......  ..  50
V.        ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................ 51
ANNEXES
3-1       Characteristics of the Savanna and Forest Regions
3-2       CIDT:  Organizational Chart
3-3       SATMACI:  Organizational Chart
3-4       SODEPALM:  Organizational Chart
3-5       The Pilot Agricultural Extension Project
4-1       Incremental Staffing Requirements
4-2       Technical Assistance
4-3       Project Cost Summary
4-4       Incremental Extension Effort
4-5       Loan Disbursement Schedule
4-6       Extension Methods and Organization
4-7       Govermment Cash Flow Projection
4-8       Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD No. 19547R: Cote d'Ivoire Agricultural Extension Project



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   WCvKING PAPERS                                                 Code No.
1.   CIDT:  Presentation et Composantes du Projet             229.383
2.   SATMACI:  Presentation et Composantes du Projet          229.384
3.   SODEPALM:  Presentation et Composantes du Projet         229.385
4.   Syst4ze Formation et Visite:  Organisation des
Services de Vulgarisation.                               229.386
5.   Agricultural Research in the Republic of Cote
d'Ivoire.                                                229.387
6.   Liens Recherche - Vulgarisation dans le Cadre du
Projet.                                                  229.388
7.   Cultural Cycle of Main Crops and Related Extension
Messages.                                                229.389
8.   Programmes de formation.
9.   Suivi et Evaluation.                                     229.390
10.   Detailed Project Cost Tables.                            229.391
11.   Financial and Accounting Management.                     229.392
12.   Economic Analysis.                                       229.393
B.  DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1.  Training and Visit Extension, D. Benor and M. Baxter, The
World Bank (1984).
2.   The Ivory Coast in Transition:  From Structural Adjustment to
Self-Sustained Growth, Countrv Economic Report No. 6051-IVC
(Yellow Cover); January 30, 1986.
WAPAA
April 1986



THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of C^te d'Ivoire
Beneficiaries:      CIDT, SATMACI, SODEPALM, IDESSA, IRCC, the Ministry
of Finance and the Ministry of Budget.
Amount:             US$34.0 million
Terms:              20 years including 5 years of grace; staviard variable
interest rate.
Prolect
Description:        The proposed project would be the first phase of a
multi-phased development effort aimed at improving the
efficiency of C8te d'Ivoire's agricultural extension
system through:
(a) the modification of CIDT's, SATMACI's and
SODEPAIM's extension services to incorporate the
main principles of the Training and Visit (T&V)
Systec.;
(b)  the strengthening of research-extension linkages;
(c) the provision of systematic in-service training
for all levels of extension staff;
(d) the setting-up of effective monitoring and
evaluation systems to supervise extension
activities and provide feed-back from farmers on
their most pressitg needs and constraints and on
the quality and acceptability of recommended
technologies; and
(e)  the improvement of the extension agencies'
financial management by (i) strengthening the
supervisory capabilities of the Ministry of
Budget; and (ii) designing and setting-up
efficient Management Information Systems (MIS) in
the extension agencies which would improve their
operational management capacities as well as
increase their accountability.



- vI -
Project emphasis would be on the extension of simple
messages promoting low cost, low risk technologies that
the majority of farmers can afford and on the
development, through Increased collaboration between
extension and research agencies, of technical
Innovations well adapted to farmers' needs and
constraints. The project would fol'low-up on a pilot
project, implemented in selected areas over an 18-month
period, which has demonstrated farmers' receptivity to
messages relevant to their needs. It would be carried
out over four years and provide funds for vehicles,
training, research and office equipment, civil works,
technical assistance, incremental staff and other
operating costs. As project implementation started In
January 1986, in time for the March to May planting
season, retroactive financing up to US$3.4 million
would be provided.
Estimated Project Costs
Local     Foreign    Total     Z of Base Cost
( US$ million)       -
Extension Services             17.2         3.6      20.8           44
Research & Development          6.9         3.8      10.7           23
Training Programs               5.2         2.6       7.8           17
Monitoring & Evaluation          3.2        0.9       4.1            9
Financial Management            0.7         0.9       1.6            3
Incremental Agr. Inputs         0.8         1.1       1.9            4
Total Base Costs               34.0        12.9      46.9          100
Physical Contingencies          2.0         0.8       2.8            6
Price Contingencies             6.9         1.9       8.8           19
Total Project Cost             42.9        15.6      58.5          125
(including taxes)
Taxes                          13.1          -       13.1
Total Project Cost             29.8        15.6      45.4
(net of taxes)
Financing Plan
Government                    -24.5          -       24.5
IBRD                           18.4       15.6       34.0
Total                          42.9        15.6      58.5



-vii -
Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
1987   1988   1989  1990   1991    1992
Annual                   4.0    14.0    8.5   5.0    1.8       0.7
Cumulative               4.0    18.0   26.5  31.5   33.3    34.0
Benefits and Risks
Benefits would stem from (a) increased agricultural productivity
and production; and (b) improved efficiency and cost effectiveness of Cate
d'Tvoire's three main rural development agencies - CIDT, SATMACI and
SODEPAIM. It is expected that by the end of project implementation, about
50% of Ivorian farmers would benefit directly from improved extension
advice and therefore be able to improve their productivity and incomes.
Most of the remaining farmers would also indirectly benefit from the
project through demonstration/diffusion effects. Increases in agricultural
production, in particular in coffee and cocoa, Cote d'Ivoire's main export
crops, would generate important additional revenues for Government and ease
the current budgetary constraints. The reorganization of the three
development agencies' field extension services and improved planning,
budgeting and monitoring systems would decrease the per hectare cost of
providing extension services.
The major project risks would be (a) slower than anticipated
improvement of the implementing agencies' management; (b) inadequate local
funding for the implementing agencies' operations; and (c) lower than
expected adoption rates by farmers of recommended cultural practices.
Specific measures would be taken under the project to minimize these risks.
First, at field level, the T&V system provides an effective mechanism to
plan and -.onitor extension agents' activities and to take corrective action
as needed. A comprehensive staff training and redeployment program would
increase middle and higher management effectiveness and motivation.   Also,
improved budgeting and accounting systems and strengthened financial
management would permit better resource planning, cost effectiveness and
accountability for the agencies' operations. Seconc, government agreed
under the recently negotiated Third Structural Adjustment Loan to provide
full and timely funding for the implementing agencies;' annual operations
and complementary measures taken under the project would introduce an
effective mechanism for timely disbursement of their approved annual
budgets. Finally, projected incremental adoption rates have been set at
conservative levels and extended technologies would be simple, well tested
and well suited to farmers' needs and constraints. With Government being
committed to p1rovide a favorable price and incentive environment, the risk
of adoption rates falling below the level necessery to ensure a
satisfactory economic rate of return is minimal.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6079-IVC
Map: IERD 19547R
WAPAA
October 1986



N
I),
It%
4~



(ix)
R2EPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
1.   Population (1984)
Total                                                     9.9 million
Rural as % Total                                          55%
Rural Families                                            800,000
2*   Economic Overview
GNP/Head of Total Population (US$, 1983)                      720
Agricultural GNP as % of Total (1983)                          25
Agricultural GNP/Read of Rural Population (US$, 1983)         323
3.   Land Use (1984/85)
Land Area (W2)                                            322,500
Akrea Irrigated ('000 ha) a/                                   42
Area Perennial Crops ('000 ha)                              2,800
Area Annual Crops ('000 ha)                                 1,800
4.   Development of Production (1984/85 production
Levels as % of 1975/76 production, 1975/76   100) b/
Cocoa                                                         203
Coffee                                                         91
Yams                                                          145
Rice                                                           92
Maize                                                         190
Livestock                                                     162
5.   Principal Inputs (1984)
Fertilizer ('000 tons)                                         72
Trained Work Oxen ('000 pairs)                                 15
6.   Trade (1984)
Total Exports; US$ million (?)                             1,824 (100)
of which Agriculture  c/                                   2,787  (63)
Cocoa                                                       965  (34)
Coffee                                                       450  (16)
Timber                                                       217   (8)
Other Agriculture                                            127   (5)



(x)
Total Imports; US$ million (X)                            1,780  (100)
of which Agriculture                                        231   (13)
Livestock and Meat                                           87    (5)
Rice                                                         92    (5)
Wheat                                                        35    (2)
Other Agriculture                                            17    (1)
7.   Government Expenditures (1985)
Total Investment Budget (CFAF million) 1/                10O,698
Amount of Investments in Agriculture (USS million) d/ 43,459
Percentage of Investments in Agriculture (%)                  43
a/ Of which 20,000 ha under sugar.
h/ Based on provisional estimates for 1984/85.
c/ Includes products of first transformation (e.g. sawnwood, canned
pineapple). Timber is included in agriculture. "Other agriculture"
exports are principally cotton, palm oil, rubber, bananas, pineapples
and coconut.
d/ From 1985 Goveniment's Development Budget ("Budget Special
d'Investissement et d'Equipement" - BSIE). The figure includes
CFAF 13,058 million financed on the resources of government's
Agricultural Price Stabilization Fund ("Caisse de Soutien et de
Stabilisation des Prix des Produits Agricoles" - CSSPPA).
WAPAA
October 1986



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of C8te d'Ivoire has requested Bank assistance to
improve its agricultural extension services, Over the coming decade, the
country's overall economic growth will depend primarily on the rate of
growth in the agricultural sector and therefore on the generation and
transfer to farmers of improved technologies, well adapted to their needs
and constraints and aimed at increasing the productivity of available
resources. To achieve this objective, the Government implemented, with
Bank assistance, a pilot project under which extension services in two
districts of the forest zone and in the entire savanna region were modified
to incorporate the main principles of the Training and Visit (T&V)
Extension System.
1.02      Because of the better planning and monitoring of activities the
system allows and the favorable reception it rece.ved from farmers,
extension agencies' managers were quick to accept it. Substantial yield
Increases were achieved on demonstration plots established by participating
farmers. As a result, Government decided to introduce the T&V System as
the basis for the general improvement of the country's main agricultural
extension agencies, namely the Ivorian Company for Textile Development
("Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le Developpement des Textiles" - CIDT)
providing services for food and cash crop development in the savanna
region, the Company for the Modernization of Ivorian Agriculture ("Societe
d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisatlon de l'Agriculture de la C8te
d'Ivoire" - SATMACI) providing services for food crops and coffee/cocoa
development in most of the forest region and the Company for Oil Palm
Development ("Socigte pour le Dgveloppement du Palmier a Huile" - SODEPALM)
providing services for food crops development in Cote d'Ivoire's coastal
strip.
1.03      The proposed project was prepared by CIDT's, SATMACI's and
SODEPALM's staff, and by the staff of the Coffee and Cocoa Research
Institute ("Institut de Recherc1t. sur le Cafe et le Cacao" - IRCC) and the
Savanna Research Institute ("Institut des Savanes" - IDESSA). Assistance
was provided by the Agricultural Division A of the Western Africa Projects
Department (WAPAA). A Government steering committee comprising s"nior
staff from the Ministries of Agriculture ("Minist4re de l'Agriculture" -
MINAG), Rural Development ("Ministare du D4veloppement Rural" - MDR),
Scientific Research ("MinistAre de la Recherche Scientifique" - MRS),
Finance ("MinistAre des Finances" - MINFIN) and Budget ("Ministare du
Budget" - MINBU) provided overall policy guidance. Appraisal took place in
January 1986.



-2-
II. ECONOMIC PROSPECTS
2.01      The Country Economic Memorandum No. 6051-IVC, "The Ivory Coast in
Transition: From Structural Adjustment to Self-Sustained Growth," of
March 14, 1986, presents an in-depth analysis of the country's economic
performance. The following is a brief overview of the present constraints
and growth prospects of the economy, emphasizing the key role that
agriculture will continue to play in the development of the economy.
2.02      After the negative growth experienced from 1982 to 1984, the
economy improved markedly in 1985. indicating that Cote d'Ivoire may now be
poised to enter a more growth oriented phase of the structural adjustment
process, following four years of austerity under a stringent stabilization
program.  However, growth will be conditioned by the patterl of supply
responses in the productive sectors and by the necessity of amortizing a
large external debt. To achieve sustained growth in the medium to long
term, a comprehensive adjustment strategy is required, based on a major
shift in incentives towards the production of tradeables for export and for
efficient import substitution. It will be necessary to reverse the lastiTg
discrimination against agriculture in the system of prices and incentives
and extend to agriculture the industrial incentive reform launched under
the Second Structural Adjustement (SAL II) Program. This is the objective
of the measures being implemented under SAL III, through the extension of
the tariff and export subsidy scheme to all agricultural produce with the
exception of coffee and cocoa, given the position of Cote d'Ivoire in
international markets for these two commodities and the crucial role they
currently play in Government's tax revenues (para 3.01).
III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Main Features
3.01      Co^te d'Ivoire's agricultural sector accounts for about 25% of the
country's GDP. 1/ It also accounts for over 60% of all merchandise export
earnings and provides employment to about 75% of the total labor force.
From a level of 5% to 12% in the 1970s, taxes on export crops have recently
increased to about 30% of Government's total annual revenues. A summary
analysis of the agricultural sector is contained in the recent Country
Economic. Memorandum (Project File No. B2). A Sector Report providing a
more detailed analysis will be available before the end of 1986. The
following paragraphs present the sector's main characteristics and
emphasize those aspects that are of a particular interest for the proposed
project.
3.02      Cote d'Ivoire can be divided into two fairly distinct regions
with different ecologies, agricultural systems and demographic
1/   1983 figures: total GDP: US$6,731 million; agricultural GDP: US$1,712
million.



-3-
characteristics: +he savanna region in the North and the forest region in
the South.  The savanna region has a more limiting climate, abundant
although fragile soils, an overall static agricultural population and
farming systems dominated by annual crops. Maize and yams are the main 
crops, each making up about 25% of the total cultivated area (870,000 ha),
followed by cotton and rice (14%), milletlsorghum (10%), groundnut and
cassava. The key constraints in the savanna are a long dry season, labor
availability and shallow, fragile soil8, indicating the need for labor
saving technologies and soil conservation measures. The forest region has
a richer resource base than the savanna, better rainfalls, a denser and
rapidly- growing population, larger farms (average of 6 ha against 3.6 ha in
the savanna) typically dominated by perennial crops. Key characteristics
of the savanna and forest regions are presented in Annex 3-1.
3.03      The higher returns and lower risks from forest agriculture have
encouraged immigration from the savanna but also helped to reduce the rate
of migration to the cities. The population in the forest zone is therefore
increasing rapidly (about 3.5% p.a.). This growth in population coupled
with traditional shifting agriculture has increased the rate of forest
clearing. Twenty five years ago, there were about 14 million ha of
primordial forest. Today, only about three million ha remain, most of
which gazetted as forest reserves. The remainder is composed of about 2.8
million ha of tree crops (of which coffee and cocoa account for about 2.5
million ha), 1.2 million ha of food crops and about 6.0 million ha of
fallow and secondary forest. The latter is being worked over at a rate of
about 400,000 ha annually for the production of food crops (mostly for
subsistence purposes), 2/ of which about 80,000 ha are then planted in tree
crops. Although in theory there would be enough land to continue this
traditional shifting cultivation for some time, land availability
constraints are beginning to emerge in some areas. Of greater concern,
however, is the increasingly serious threat to the forest ecology of the
annual slashing and burning of the secondary forest. The inevitable spread
of forest fires during the clearing season is continuously opening up the
forest canopy. This in turn affects the rainfall distribution not only in
the forest region but also in the savanna to the North. The Government
recently set-up a Task Force to develop a National Forestry Plan and
assistance is provided under the Bank-financed Second Forestry Project
(IVC-2496, 1985) to address the sector's main issues: forest protection and
management, reforestation, wood marketing and fiscal policies. In
addition, there is an urgent need for better land use planning and for
intensification of agriculture, away from low yielding and environmentally
wasteful extensive cultivation methods. This means a much more paying
agriculture allowing farmers to afford investments in more intensive
technologies.
3.04      Past agricultural growth was built on three main export crops:
coffee, cocoa and timber. Cocoa and coffee currently cover about
2.5 million ha In the forest area. Ivorian production represents 23% and
2/   Food crops are grown on the same plot for about 2 to 3 years, followed
by 8 to 12 years of fallow.



-4-
5% respectively of the world supply of these crops.  They continue to
represent about 90% of all new annual tree crop plantings (about 80,000 ha)
with cocoa accounting for over 50,000 ha. Cocoa and coffee cultivation is
extensive and crop husbandry poor. There is a need to promote the use of
improved planting material and good cultural practices as well as to ensure
the production of quality cocoa if the country is to maintain its
commanding position on the world market. Because coffee is less profitable
than cocoa, coffee plantings have slowed to less than 15,000 ha per year
which is not sufficient, given the very extensive cultivation methods, to
ensure the maintenance of current production levels and will lead to a
decline in production and exports if measures are not rapidly taken to
renew farmers' interest in coffee production.
3.05      Other cash crops have also been encouraged but oil palm
(100,000 ha), coconuts (47,000 ha) and rubber (45,000 La) still represent
only 8% of the area covered by coffee and cocoa and their current annual
rate of expansion (about 15,000 ha/year) is low and should be increased.
However, their development requires relatively high management skills.
Investment costs are high, gestation periods longer. Greater growth rates
in those crops in the future will require (a) adequate investment incentive
and pricing policies; (b) the continuation of research efforts to improve
yield potential and the translation of available research results into
on-farm innovations and productivity increases; and (c) the introduction of
innovative development and management systems that favor a development
based on small and medium-scale individual farmers to complement the
present state-controlled nucleus estate-smallholder system which limits
where and how fast expansion can take place. 3/
3.06      Food crops cover an estimated 2.2 million ha, with the most
important crops being plantain (550,000 ha), maize (440,000 ha), taro, rice
and yams (about 300,000 ha each) and cassava (140,000 ha). In normal
years, Cote d'Ivoire appears to be self-sufficient with respect to bulk
staples and even achieves occasional exports of maize to neighbouring
countries. However, it imports about 50% of its livestock products, is
markedly out of balance with regard to rice (annual imports of 300,000 tons
on average over the last few years or about half of the domestic
consumption) and imports its entire wheat flour needs (220,000 tons in
1984). In the future, the country's food self-sufficiency will be severely
tested by its extraordinary demographic characteristics. Population growth
was 5.1% p.a. during the 1970s, the third highest in the world due to high
immigration from neighboring countries and a 3.2% domestic growth rate.
Overall population is projected to grow by 4.0% p.a. during the 1980s,
slowing down to around 3% p.a. by the year 2000. However, this slowing
down may not materialize given the poor development prospects
3/   Small and medium scale farms represent about 20 to 30% of the areas
under oil palm, coconut and rubber, with industrial plantations
accounting for the balance.



-5-
and high population pressure of the countries to the North, and the major
improvements which can be expected in the Ivorian population's present
relatively low life expectancy (49 years) and high infant mortality. 4/
3.07      The single most important factor in Cote d'Ivoire's future food
self-sufficiency will, however, be its urbanization trend; in 1960, urban
population represented only 19% of total population; by 1970, it had risen
to 28% and by 1980 to 40%. It is estimated that, by the year 2000, it will
reach about 60% of the total population. Such figures illustrate the
challenge facing thc rural sector to feed the country's urban population
and also to provide the economic base necessary to develop, over the next
20 years, the country's industrial sector. Until recently, Cote d'Ivoire's
emphasis on export crops and its reliance on single crop development
agencies (`filieres") have resulted in a relative neglect of food crop
development. The husbandry level of food crops is poor and could be
greatly improved through the adoption of simple cultural methods. The
realization of these potential productivity gains, which are substantial,
is necessary to allow for continued satisfactory food security levels as
well as for the gradual release of labor for sustaining the growth of
export crops. Food crop productivity gains also represent an important
immediate source of growth for the economy.
B.   Government Development Strategy
3.08      Agriculture will remain the predominant factor of Ivorian
economic growth over the next decade. Structurally, however, the
circumstances for development appear less favorable than in the past:
timber exploitation potential is declining; cocoa production is projected
to grow at about 6% p.a. but may face falling world prices as a result of
such expansion because of Cote d'Ivoire's dominant position on world
markets; and coffee production is on a downward trend because of the
slowdown in new plantings and the resulting ageing of plantations. Against
this background, Government development strategy aims at (a) optimizing
coffee and cocoa contribution to the economy through a program to improve
cocoa quality, rehabilitate existing coffee plantations and plant new
coffee; (b) promoting other export crops to ensure diversification and
greater stability in export earnings; and (c) encouraging food crop
production. Implementation of this strategy is critically dependent upon a
shift in incentives in favor of the agricultural sector and an increase in
rural incomes to motivate farmers' initiative and permit investments in
technological innovations. Such a shift has already started under the Bank
supported Structural Adjustment Program. SAL III incorporates major
reforms aimed at promoting an institutional environment more favorable to
agricultural growth, in particular through price and incentives policies
reversing the internal terms of trade in favor of agriculture. However,
4/   About 120 deaths of infants under 1 year per 1,000 births.



-6-
for these measures to have their full effect, it is essential that farmers
have access to improved technologies, which in turn requires effective
extension services.
C.   Bank Strategy and Assistance to Agriculture
3.09      Since 1968, when Bank Group operations started in Cote d'Ivoire,
the Bank has financed 53 projects totalling about US$1,500 million. Of
these. 19 have been directly related to agriculture. Bank operations in
agriculture have supported Government's policy of crop diversification,
development of exports and increased emphasis on smallholders' agriculture.
There are currently six on-going agricultural projects: a North-East
Development Project (1827-IVC, 1980), a Center-West Development Project
(2167-IVC, 1982), a Technical Assistance Project (2059-IVC, 1982) with an
important agricultural component, a Fourth Rubber Project (2323-IVC, 1983),
a Second Forestry Project (2496-IVC, 1985) and a Fifth Oil Palm Project
(2627-IVC, 1987). In addition to the proposed agricultural extension
project, flive projects at identification/preparation stage are directly
linked to Government's development strategy, which is fully endorsed by the
Bank: an Agricultural Sector Loan (FY87), an Agricultural Research Project
(FY88S), a Rubber Sector Project (FY89S), an Agricultural Marketing and
Credit Project (FY88), and an Export Diversification Project (FY89). In
general, implementation of Bank-financed project has been satisfactory and
has improved substantially over the past five years.
3.10      Past Bank involvement with CIDT has been fruitful.  It was
initiated in January 1975 by the approval of a US$31.0 million loan
(Loan n°1077-IVC) for the development of cotton production in the savanna,
a region which had previously received relatively less attention than the
forest region.  The project aimed at providing farmers with extension
advice and inputs, building additional cotton ginning capacity and
Improving basic rural infrastructure over a 6 year period (1975-80). The
Project Performance Audit Report (n°4568) indicated that the project's
objectives had been exceeded for cotton production but that food crop
development had been slower than anticipated, partly because of marketing
problems. Overall, CIDT's management and implementation capabilities had
largely contributed to the project's success. The Bank extended a second
loan of US$9.4 million to CIDT in May 1980 to finance the North-East
Development Project (Loan 1827-IVC). The project's objective was to foster
the development of this remote part of the savanna region through pilot
actions to introduce cash crops in the area, promote cooperative
development and improve food crop marketing. The project has experienced
some problems in finding adequate solutions to the food crop marketing
problem but has been successful in introducing cotton in the region.
Notwithstanding the successful implementation of these projects in terms of
their production and development impact, CIDT underwent from 1977 to 1983 a
difficult transition period after being given by Government broad
development responsibilities for the savanna region. This induced a sharp
increase in CIDT's operating expenditures and resulted in severe cash-flow
difficulties. Government arrears culminated at about CFAF 10 billion by
the end of 1981. CIDT's rehabilitation was addressed under SAL I (Loan
2058-IVC, 1981): Government's arrears were settled in November 1982 and an
organizational audit was carried out which proposed a program of reforms



-7-
aimed at improving CIDT's financial, administrative and technical
efficiency. The rehabilitation continued under SAL II (Loan 2332-IVC,
1984) with the elimination of fertilizer subsidies (which eased CIDT's cash
flow problems), the beginning of the decentralization of CIDT operations, a
renegot'.ation of ics arrangements with Its foreign partners and an increase
in Government's share in its capital structure. CIDT's rehabilitation
program, although not totally completed, has been largely successful in
restoring the institution's financial situation.
3.11      Bank's involvement with SATMACI started in 1970 with the
financing of the First Cocoa Project (Loan 686-IVC). This project was
followed in 1975 by the Second Cocoa Project (Loan 1069-IVC) which was
basically an extension of the First Project. Both projects focussed on
increasing the area planted with high yielding cocoa varieties. OED
reports have been issued for both projects (n°1899 and 5190), with similar
findings: (a) SATMACI had been effective in meeting its physical planting
targets but very scant attention was given to the quality of plantings,
which resulted in actual yields being much lower than expected at appraisal
(500 kg/ha versus 1,000 kg/ha); (b) as a bureaucratic, non-revenue-earning
organization, SATMACI paid little attention to cost and efficiency; (c)
husbandry advice to planters was poor, with field extension staff's
motivation very low; and (d) SATMACI's financial situation was precarious
due to the institution's inability to rapidly prepare disbursement requests
for the release of budgetary resources and to substantial delays in
Government's contributions towards the funding of agreed SATMACI's
programs. A follow-on project, the Center-West Development Project (Loan
2167-IVC) was approved in 1982 and is still being implemented. Its
orientation is different from the single crop orientation of the first two
projects: it tries to balance food crop and cocoa/coffee development and
aims at making the overall farm more efficient through better cultivation
methods recommended by improved extension services. The project attempted
to circumvent SATMACI's institutional weaknesses by entrusting
implementation to an independent project unit, created within SATMACI but
with considerable managerial and financial autonomy. So far, project
results have been mixed. Coordination of field activities remain weak and
coffee planting is well behind schedule. However, progress is being made
with coffee regeneration and the upland food crop development program has
shown encouraging results. As in the case of CIDT, SATMACI's financial
situation deteriorated sharply in the 1980-1982 period largely because of
the impact of the country's overall budgetary crisis on Government's
ability to fund SATMACI's approved operations. SAL I was instrumental in
obtaining a settlement of Governmenti's arrears by the end if 1982.
However, SATMACI's cash flow problems recurred in 1983 and thereafter, in
spite of renewed Bank-assistan&e under SAL II. A comprehensive management
audit of the institution was carried out under SAL I. Its recommendations
- including a revision of SATMACT's statutes, a strengthening of its
management systems and procedures, the decentralization of operations and a
comprehensive staff training and redeployment program - have been the
subject of protracted reviews and discussions with Government. So far,
they have not been implemented. The proposed project would address the
most critical of SATMACI's institutional weaknesses.



-8-
3.12      The Bank has had in the past no direct involvement with SODEPALM
under its present charter (food crop development) and management, although
it was a major cofinancier, through four projects (Loans 611, 612, 613,
.759, 760, 1036 and 1382) over the 1969 to 1978 period, of Cate d'Ivoire's
oil palm and coconut development program, for which SODEPALM was
responsible before this responsibility was transferred to PALMINDUSTRIE.
However, SODEPALM is currently carrying out, with Bank's assistance, a
pilot agricultural extension project to test improved extension methods in
selected areas (para 3.45).
D.   Institutional Environment
1.   Government Supervisory Bodies
3.13      In 1983, Government became incressingly concerned about growing
food imports and the apparent inability of the development agencies
concerned to deal with the problem. To put special emphasis on this
aspect, it split rural sector responsibilities between two ministries: a
Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Water (MINAGREF), responsible for
export crops, forestry and marine fisheries; and a Ministry of Rural
Development (MDR) responsible for food crops, livestock and inland
fisheries 5/. The Ministry of Scientific Research (MRS) oversees
agricultural research. The first two ministries are responsible for
defining Government's policies in the agricultural sector, to be
implemented by the various Development Agencies ("Socidtes de
Developpement" - SODEs). They are also responsible for (a) defining the
SODEs' medium-term and annual objectives; (b) providing them with the
means, financial and otherwise, to achieve these objectives; aiid (c)
monitoring their activities to ensure that the latter are carried out as
efficiently as possible. Although the ministries' respective
responsibilities are relatively well defined, problems do arise, in
particular when deciding on the relative emphasis to be given to the
development of food crops (MDR) and cash crops (MINAG). This is
particularly true in the case of CIDT and SATMACI which are responsible for
the development of both in their respective regions. In the context of
farmer-driven development, however, the problem would not exist: with the
agencies efficiently providing the required services, farmers would then
make the decision about what crops they grow and what services they
require, based upon the relative attractiveness of the various crops.
Under the current development model, however, split responsibilities
introduce difficulties for the formulation of coherent sector development
policies.
3.14      There are other shortcomings in the current institutional
structure:
5/   These ministries have recently (July 1986) been split into four
different ministries: a Ministry of Agriculture responsible for export
crops; a Ministry of Rural Development responsible for food crops, a
Ministry of Livestock and a Ministry of Water and Forests.



-9-
(a) The ministries' planning capacities are weak because of a
shortage of experienced staff at central level. The SODEs do not
have clear medium-term development objectives beyond the broad
guidelines of the Five-Year Development Plans; their annual
programs are discussed only in general terms with the technical
ministries in the context of budgetary discussions; physical
annual targets are set irrespective of the financial resources
likely to be made available by the Treasury.
(b) Although each ministry has a Directorate for Planning, Budgeting
and Management Control ("Direction de la Programmation,
Budgetisation et du Controle Budgetaire" - DPBCG) to oversee the
SODEs under its direct supervision, these directorates cannot
- provide an effective monitoring of SODEs' activities because
(1) the SODEs' internal MIS are inadequate; and (ii) the
supervisory ministries lack adequately trained staff and
operating means to ensure proper monitoring.
In the short-term, the ability of the ministries to monitor SODEs'
activities crucially depends on the latters' capacity to generate the
necessary information. The project would overhaul the MIS of the concerned
parastatals to provide, in a timely manner, the information necessary for
their own internal management purposes and for monitoring by their
supervisory ministries (para 4.66). Strengthening of the supervisory
ministries' planning and policy making capabilities would be an important
component of the forthcoming Agricultural Sector Loan (FY87).
2.   Agricultural Extension and Support Services
(a) Development Agencies
3.15      The main SODEs are the CIDT which handles cotton and food crop
production in the savanna region; SATMACI which is responsible for coffee,
cocoa and food crops in the forest area; and SODEPALM which now deals
exclusively with food crops in CBte d'Ivoire's coastal strip. These three
agencies are discussed in more detail in paras 3.30 to 3.44, Other
agencies are responsible for specific crops: PALMINDUSTRIE for oil palm and
coconut; the African Rubber Company ("Socifti Africaine de Plantations
d'H8vea" - SAPH) and the Rubber Company of Grand Bereby ("Societe des
Cacutchoucs de Grand B4r4by" - SOGB) for rubber; the Livestock Development
Agency ("Soci4tg pour la DUveloppement des Productions Animales" - SODEPA)
for livestock; and the Fruit and Vegetables Development Company ("Sociftg
de Dfveloppement des Fruits et Legumes" - SODEFEL) for fruit and
vegetables. Each agency handles most of the agricultural support services,
i.e. extension, input supplies, credit distribution and, in some cases,
output marketing. Usually, each agency is linked to a specific
agricultural research institute as shown below.



- 10 -
IVC Development Agencies and Related Research Institutes
Development Agency      Crops                       Research Institute a/
CIDT                      Cotton, Food Crops             IDESSA
SATMACI                   Cocoa, Coffee, Food Crops      IRCC
SODEPALM                  Rice, Maize                    IDESSA
PALM INDUSTRIE            Coconut, Oil Palm              IRHO
SOGB - SAPH               Rubber                         IRCA
SODEPRA                   Livestock                      IDESSA
SODEFEL                   Fruits and vegetables          IDESSA
a/   IDESSA    : Institut des Savanes (Savanna Research Institute); IRHO:
Institut de Recherche des Huiles et 0lagineux (Oil and Fat Research
Institute); IRCC: Institut de Recherche pour le Cafe et le Cacao
(Coffee and Cocoa Research Institute); IRCA: Institut de Recherche
pour le Caoutchouc en Afrique (Rubber Research Institute)
3.16      In the past, these agencies were specialized in the promotion of
a single export crop. This "filiere" approach had the merit of
concentrating resources on clearly defined targets and proved to be an
effective strategy for promoting initial fast growth in a particular crop.
However, Government's concern with the small number of farmers reached 6/
and the lack of attention and support given to the integration of the
various cash and food crops on a particular farm, resulted in a
restructuring of the three main agencies in 1978 to give them both crop
specific and regional development responsibilities: CIDT's mandate was
extended to the regional agricultural development in the savanna, for food
crops as well as cotton; SATMACI continued to be responsible for cocoa and
coffee but was also given responsibility for food crop development in most
of the forest region. Along the coastal strip country's coastal strip,
SODEPALM took over from SATMACI responsibility for food crops, and its
former oil palm and coconut responsibilities were transferred to
PALMINDUSTRIE. The principal objectives of this reorganisation were to
promote the development of the largely neglected food crops, improve
efficiency in the use of Government's services and develop an integrated
farming system approach to agricultural development to permit better
exploitation of export and food crop interdependencies. The benefits from
this reorganization have been slow to materialize, with the Development
6/   For instance, farmers that only grew food crops, unless they were
among the very few in one of the specialised irrigation programs for
rice or vegetables, did not receive assistance from any of the SODEs.
In the early 1980s, only 30% of the total number of farmers in the
savanna, i.e. only the cotton growers, were covered by CIDT's
extension and input supply service.



~Agencies' staff still being influenced by the "filiare" approach. The
proposed project would reinforce the farming system approach of the
Development Agencies.
(b) Farmers' Cooperatives
3.J7      In Cote d'Ivoire, the establishment of a strong farmer
cooperative movement has always been one of the Government's stated
objectives. Government's strategy has been to encourage the creation of
pre-cooperative groups ("Groupements a Vocation Coop4rative" - GVC) around
the marketing of export crops (coffee, cocoa, cotton, by offering to the
primary producers a small premium for their produce if marketed through
GVCs. The strategy has been relatively successful: in 1983, there were
2,500 GVCs for the marketing of coffee and cocoa, with 150,000 members
marketing respectively 22% and 29% of the country's production; and 250
GVCs handling cotton marketing, with 46,000 members responsible for 57% of
the total amount of marketed seed-cotton. The progress of the cooperative
movement has been less spectacular for food crops where only 100 GVCs were
in operation in 1983, with about 5,000 members.
3.18      The Development Agencies are using GVCs to help spread the impact
of their services: extension staff look for interested farmers primarily
among GVC members; input supply is organized around GVCs and so is most of
the National Agricultural Development Bank ("Banque Nationale pour le
Developpement Agricole" - BNDA) agricultural credit.  However, the Ivorian
cooperative movement is still in its infancy. Farmers accept to cooperate
mainly because of the prospect of immediate profits by marketing their
production through GVCs. Collective liability for credit has by and large
failed, with recovery of loans to GVCs' members being very low (except in
the case of cotton where recoveries are automatically deducted from sales
proceeds). GVCs' role in input supply has so far been negligible but is
potentially very important. The development of Ivorian cooperative
movement requires stronger commitment and support from Government to
provide training and assistance to GVC members and leaders. Besides an
already well established role in crop marketing, efforts should now be made
to gradually develop activities and services offered to members in other
fields, in particular for the supply of inputs.
(c) Agricultural Research
3.19       Agricultural research is handled by several research institutes
under the responsibility of the MRS. These institutes can be divided into
two groups: the "forest" institutes work on industrial and export crops
grown in the forest area; the others, grouped under the Savanna Research
Institute (IDESSA), deal with cotton, livestock and food crops.  Research
in agricultural technology is handled by the Ivorian Technological Research
Center ("Centre Ivoirien de Recherche Technologique" - CIRT) and the
Ivorian Tropical Technology Institute ("Ivoirienne de Technologie
Tropicale" - 12T). Ivorian agricultural research, in particular for cash



- 12 -
crops, has been excellent and, in some cases, outstanding. 7/ However, it
has important shortcomings: (a) food crop research has so far concentrated
mainly on rice and maize: until 1980, there was no meaningful program on
bulk staples; (b) the crop specific orientation has not allowed research on
essential issues such as intercrop linkages, intercropping, economic and
financial viability of packages and labor availability; and (c) the
relationship between research institutes and extension agencies has been,
in most cases, inadequate and increasirgly so: this is particularly the
case with SATMACI and SODEPALM.  Government is aware of these problems.  It
created IDESSA in 1981 as an apex institution to coordinate the activities
of all the "savanna" institutes. A similar institute, the Forest Research
Institute ("Institut des Forkts" - IDEFOR) is now under consideration for
the forest region. This will permit research to adopt a more farming-
system oriented approach. A National Research Project, currently under
preparation for potential Bank-financing, would address all major issues in
the sector. The proposed agricultural extension project would work upon
-improving research-extension-farmer linkages (adaptive research and on-farm
trials) to permit a better dissemination of research results and provide a
better feed-back on farmers' main problems and constraints for directing
future research.
3.20       Improved technologies have been successfully introduced for
cotton, palm oil and rubber production and farmers have shown a strong
interest in improved seeds of rice and maize. Most of them, however, are
still practicing low-yielding, traditional, extensive agriculture, without
recourse to modern inputs or improved cultural methods. For most cash and
food crops, the large disparities in yields between the average and the
better farmers (two to four times) and the results on research stations (up
to eight times for coffee or cocoa) indicate that considerable productivity
gains can be obtain"d by the better diffusion of simple, improved cultural
methods and already available, well-tested research recommendations.
3.21      In most areas of Cote d'Ivoire, intensification of agriculture is
constrained by one or more of the following factors: (a) poor husbandry
knowledge; (b) distortions in relative incentives (in particular for coffee
and cocoa); (c) land tenure, especially for bottomland development; (d)
lack of ready availability of modern inputs in many areas; and (e) labor
bottlenecks. Price and incentive issues are being addressed through the
structural adjustment process. The resolution of land tenure issues will
take time, although there are signs that, in certain areas, land shortages
are putting pressures on traditional customs and promoting more interest in
intensification. While in the short-term parastatals may have to continue
playing their role in the distribution of inputs, in the medium-term,
improvements will depend on the private sector, including farmers'
organizations. Gradual divestiture by development agencies of their own
input distribution function should therefore be actively promoted. The
first priority, however, must be increasing labor productivity. Immediate
7/   For instance, the germplasm collections and pioneering plant breeding
programs of the internationally renowned IVC tree crop research
institutes (IRHO, IRCC and IRCA).



- 13 -
improvements can be achieved through the better husbandry knowledge that
can be provided by good extension. Other productivity breakthroughs will
be achieved when incentives in associated crops (food crops-coffee/cocoa in
the forest zone, cereals/legumes-cotton in the savanna) are additively
sufficient to support investments in new technologies such as
mechanization.
(d) Input Supply
3.22      The main supp'lier of fertilizer is the Ivorian Fertilizer Company
("Socift6 Ivoirienne d'Engrais" - SIVENG) which imports fertilizer
nutrients and produces complex fertilizers for sale on the domestic market
and for export to neighboring countries. The private sector is also a
significant importer of fertilizer. Agricultural chemicals are freely
imported and sold by a number of large international chemical companies.
Fertilizer nutrient consumption in CMte d'Ivoire increased from 30,000 tons
in 1973 to 53,000 tons in 1980, but declined to less than 40,000 tons by
1984. It is estimated that about 90% of total consumption goes to cotton,
sugar cane, pineapples, bananas and palm tree crops. Cotton production
alone accounts for more than one-half of total fertilizer consumption. The
very large areas of coffee and cocoa ate practically never fertilized. Of
the food crops, only irrigated rice receives fertilizer because it is
provided free. The situation is similar in the case of agrochemicals:
cotton, pineapples and other industrial tree crops account for more than
90% of total quantities used annually.
3.23      Inputs are distributed by the various development agencies and by
a network of private traders. Although its exact importance is not known,
the role of private traders is still small but growing rapidly. Its
development is, however, constrained by the input distribution activities
of the SODEs, which provide inputs either free (improved seeds,
insecticides for cotton, fertilizers for irrigated rice) or at a price
which barely covers real distribution costs and therefore discourages
private operators. 8/ Input distribution through SODEs functions well for
CIDT which controls the whole fertilizer and chemical market for cotton
production in the savanna region. It is also effective for the small and
intensively managed SAPH and SOGB rubber schemes and for PALMINDUSTRIE's
oil palm growers. In the fLrast zone, the effectiveness of input
distribution has been spotty at best in the case of SODEPALM, dismal and
increasingly so for SATMACI. The main reasons are: (a) the financial
difficulties and cash flow problems of these parastatals (para 3.41):
insufficient funding arrives too late and, as a result, only severely
rationed input quantities can be purchased and distributed, often too late
in the season to be useful; (b) lengthy procurement procedures; and
(c) major problems in the agricultural credit system (paras 3.26 and 3.27).
3.24      Seed for food crops and cotton and planting material for coffee
are produced by three main agencies: CIDT, SAtMACI and the Office of Seeds
8/   It is estimated that subsidies on modern inputs amount to about 10% of
their total cost.



- 14 -
and Seedlings ("Office des Semences et Plants" - OSP); cocoa pods are
produced by IRCC; for other crops, e.g., oil palm, the specialized agencies
concerned produce and distribute their own seeds or vegetative material.
Seed multiplication for food crops is limited to rice, maize and groundnuts
and these seeds are provided free to farmers.   Availability of subsidized
improved seeds encourages indiscriminate use by farmers. However, the
supply of improved seeds to farmers, in sufficient qudntity and in a timely
manner, is irregular, the seed-producing agencies experienclng cash-flow
problems due to late financing by Government of seeds production and
distribution costs. As a result, producing agencies have been forced to
curtail production: in 1985, out of total needs in improved rice seeds
estimated at 8,800 tons, only 3,500 tons (40%) were made available to the
SODEs. The same proportion applies to improved maize seeds. Government
recently decided to reorganize seed production by establishing OSP and is
considering a full-fledged national seed company which would be responsible
for the production and certification of improved seeds. The company would
be set up as a joint public private enterprise (socifte d'6conomie mixte).
A feasibility study already carried out by the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC) is under review by the Government. The Bank supports the
scheme which would, however, require at least two years to become
operational.
3.25      Good scope exists for increasing the role of the private sector
in input supply, an option actively encouraged by Government. Several
chemical firms are setting up outlets in the savanna and forest regions for
direct sales to farmers. In 1985, SATMACI initiated, on a pilot basis, a
scheme ("dpo6t-vente") by which it puts its network of rural stores at the
disposal of private chemical distributors. The system worked well and will
be expanded in 1986. CIDT is planning to gradually divest itself from its
input supply activities by increasing the role of farmers' cooperatives in
this field. Under the project, measures would be taken to encourage
privatization of input supply, in particular through "d'p&t-vente" schemes
for SATMACI and to promote an increased role for GVCs in the savanna.
However, private operators or GVCs cannot intervene in the distribution of
those inputs that are subsidized by Government (para 3.23). This particular
issue would be resolved by measures to be taken under SAL III including:
(a) the gradual removal of all input subsidies; and (b) in the meantime,
the setting-up of a mechanism ensuring that the subsidies are adequately
funded by Government's budget to permit the production (seeds) or the
purchase (insecticides, fertilizers) of the concerned inputs in the
required quantities and their distribution in time to farmers by the
Development Agencies.
(ej Agricultural Credit
3.26      Agricultural credit is mainly the responsibility of the National
Agricultural Development Bank ("Banque Nationale de DEveloppement
Agricole-BNDA").  Although the universal banking system adopted by Cote
d'Ivoire in 1975 makes it possible for all banks to finance agriculture,
commercial banks have not provided any meaningful amount of agricultural
credit. There also exist self-contained autonomous credit schemes to
finance the development of the4rubber and oil palm sub-sectors. Credit
available to the agricultural sector from all institutional sources has
been Inadequate: it is estimated that between 1975 and 1985 only about 4%



- 15 -
of all bank credit was in favor of agriculture, of which 70% from B1DA
alone. However, BNDA's own performance has not been satisfactory.
Annually, less than 40% of Its loans goes to agricultural producers, the
balance financing other activities, i.e., mostly the marketing of
agricultural produce (coffee and cocoa exports); only about 20% of credit
to primary producers (9% of total BNDA's credit) is for production
purposes. the balance being consumption loans ("prets de soudure"); about
75% of agricultural production credit is seasonal credit, the balance,
representing about 2% of total BNDA annual credits, being medium-term loans
mostly for plantations and equipment.
3.27      Only in the case of cotton farmers, where credit applications are
prepared by CIDT and loan repayment is deducted by extension staff during
seed-cotton marketing, has seasonal credit to small-scale farmers
functioned well. In SODEPALM's and SATMACI's areas, non-recovery of loans
has becote an almost accepted fact (average recovery levels hover around
30%), inducing substantial arrears in BNDA's portfolio and excluding an
increasing number of farmers from further credit. The main problems are
(a) BNDA's own inefficiencies in processing and disbursing loans; (b) lack
of support from SODEs' agents for loan recoveries unless produce marketing
is perfectly controlled as in the case of cotton; and (c) first and
foremost, a lack of securities for BNDA's lending and of Government's
willingness to enforce financial discipline and loan recoveries. The audit
revealed an organization overstaffed with inexperienced personnel,
overextended in terms of its managerial capacity, with accounting system
and procedures grossly inadequate and bad and doubtful accounts equivalent
to about half of its loan portfolio. It recommended a major rehabilitation
program including a complete reorganization, extensive training programs,
the design and setting-up of an efficient management information system, as
well as an injection of new long-term resources of about CFAF 55.0 billion
(US$157 million) to write off BNDA's bad debts and reconstitute its share
capital. The Bank has been approached to identify possible avenues for
assisting in the rehabilitation of BNDA. A mission was carried out in
September 1986 to prepare a financial restructuring and institutional
rehabilitation program to be supported by a proposed Agricultural Sector
Loan in PY87. In the short-term, except for cotton farmers, smallholders
in a few export crop development schemes (rubber, oil palm) and large
private plantation owners (pineapples, bananas), credit will continue to be
unavailable to the large majority of farmers. Under the project, emphasis
would be placed on making inputs physically available to the interested
farmers for cash (para 4.46).
(f) Agricultural Education
3.28      There are in Cote d'lvoire seven agricultural schools offering
three levels of training: (a) a basic level ("Assistant des Productions
Veggtales et Animales" - APVA), mostly provided by the agricultural school
in Bingerville, suitable for extension agents and lower level staff of the
ministries and other parastatals; (b) an intermediate level provided by the
Agricultural Institute in Bouake ("Institat Agricole de BouakE" - IAB),



- 16 -
suitable for middle level field officers, researchers and managers; and
(c) a higher level (engineer) offered by the National Agricultural
Institute ("Ecole Nationale Superieure Agronomique" - ENSA) in Abidjan,
which is one of the best technical schools in the country and has trained
many top managers of the country's agricultural ministries and parastatals.
3.29      A recent report 9/ recommends improvement of Cote d'Ivoire's
agricultural training system including: (a) the merging of some schools;
(b) the need for improved curricula and for a stronger scientific/research
base for the higher level schools; and (c) the need to make teaching more
operational, field oriented. However, the major weakness of the system
appears to be that it is principally geared toward the needs of Government
services. This has two negative consequences: (i) the number of annual
graduates is set according to the projected needs of the civil service
which, in the current circumstances of budgetary constraints, induces a
reduction in the number of annual graduates and a substantial
underutilization of the schools' capacity (both in terms of infrastructure
and teaching staff); and (ii) students and teaching staff, benefiting from
assured job openings, lack incentives to improve their performance.
Improvement of Co^te d'Ivoire's agricultural training system should be part
of the Bank's sectoral dialogue with Government and of an eventual
agricultural sector loan. However, the present system would not be a
constraint for the proposed project in view of the relatively adequate
quality of current graduates; the current underutilization of the system
which would allow quick adjustment to demand; and the emphasis of the
proposed project on limiting the recruitment of incremental staff.
E.   The Development Agencies: CIDT, SATMACI, SODEPALM
1.  Agenciest Operations and Efficiency
(a) CIDT
3.30      CIDT was created in 1973 as a semi-public company ("Socift6
d'Economie Mixte" - SEM) with the participation of the private French
Textile Development Company ("Compagnie Frangaise pour le D6veloppement des
Fibres Textiles" - CFDT) which still has a 25% shareholding. Its
objectives are the development of cotton production in the savanna region
and, since 1978, the promotion of food crops (rice, maize, cassava,
groundnuts, yams). Its operations cover about 190,000 sq.km (the entire
Savanna region or 58% of the country) in which there are about 300,000
farming families. The agency has a staff of 3,300 of which about 1,450 are
field extension agents. In 1984/85, extension workers provided direct
assistance to about 120,000 farmers (40% of the total number of farmers in
the savanna) for a cropped area of 290,000 ha (about 30% of the estimated
total cropped area). Of the farmers benefiting from CIDT's assistance,
105,000 (87%) were cotton growers (145,000 ha of cotton) cultivating also
food crops in rotation; the balance (13%) being only food crop producers
9/   UNESCO-World Bank Cooperative Program; April 1985.



- 17 -
(of rice mostly). This corresponds to an-average ratio of one field
extension agent for 200 farmers of which about 80 are actually directly
contacted by-extension agents (the latter number varies from 40 to 200
depending on the area). In the northern part of CIDT's area, although
almost all farmers (95%) have been growing cotton for many years, the
density of extension agents is high: each cotton growing farmer is
systematically followed by extension agents at every step of the cultural
cycle. This appears unnecessary. Under the project, the density of
extension agents in these areas would be decreased by redistributing staff,
and a different, less intensive extension approach adopted without negative
consequences for crop yields. In the South-Eastern part of CIDT's area, on
the contrary, the proportion of farmers actually receiving CIDT's
assistance is lower (252) as cotton introduction there is relatively
recent.  In that region, CI-s extension efforts should be increased and
enlarged to non-cotton grow .g farmers.
3.31      CIDT's basic organizational structure (Annex 3-2) is strong and
the agency enjoys a fair degree of financial autonomy, at least for its
cotton extension activities (75% of total CIDT's extension costs in
1984/85), 10/ which are financed through direct deduction by CIDT out of
the sales of ginned cotton.  For food crop extension, CIDT's costs are
financed from budgetary resources and, as a result, the agency experiences
the same cash flow problems as SATMhACI and SODEPALM (para 3.39). Because
of its statutes, CIDT is not subjected to civil service salaries and can
therefore provide adequate incentives to its staff which is well motivated.
Basic support services such as input supply, credit and output marketing
are handled efficiently.
3.32      CIDT has been successful in developing cotton as the major cash
crop in the savanna through effective organization and strong links
with the Cotton Research Institute ("Institut de Recherche sur le Coton et
les Plantes Textiles" - IRCT) which is part of IDESSA and with which it
carries out an extensive program of applied research on a network of 20
experimentation sites (POs) throughout the savanna region. However, there
are signs that improvements are now necessary to develop the region
further. The recent slowdown (to about 1,300 kg/ha) in the growth of
average cotton yields, compared with those obtained by the best farmers
(well over 2,000 kg/ha), indicates that improvements are necessary in
extension messages as well as in extension methods. A modest increase in
yields would ensure the economic viability of cotton production in C8te
d'lvoire, even at the current lower international prices. The basic CIDT
worker is recruited with low agricultural training, and on-the-job training
does little to improve his skills above an elementary knowledge of cultural
methods and crop husbandry. As a result, he does not have much to offer in
terms of new technical advice to farmers who have been growing cotton for
many years. The technical and communication skills of field extension
agents should be improved through continuous training and these agents
should receive better technical backstopping from supervisors. There is a
10/ Cotton extension costs: CFAF 7.6 billion; Food crops extension costs:
CFAF 2.4 billicn.



- 18 -
need for a sharper definition between the extension function of field
agents and their other activities (input supply, credit) which currently-
claim a substantial share of their time. Greater emphasis should be given
to improving food crop production on cotton growing farms as well as on
non-cotton growing farms. Finally, immediate attention should be given to
(a) the regional distribution of agents according to new development
priorities; and (b) making better use of available resources to reduce
current extension costs which are unnecessarily high (about CFAF 30,000/ha,
i.e. the equivalent of 260 kg of seed cotton or 20% of average yields).
(b) SATMACI
3.33      SATMACI was created in 1958 as a state development company with
management and financial autonomy (Organization chart in Annex 3-3).
Initially, it had a nationwide role. In 1971, with the establishment of
other crop specialized agencies, it was reorganized into essentially a
coffee and cocoa development agency.  In 1978, after the Rice Development
Agency ("Societ4 pour le Dgveloppement de la Riziculture" - SODERIZ), was
disbanded, its activities were enlarged to include bottomland rice
development. Since then, SATMACI's role has gradually evolved into a
regional development agency in charge of much of the forest zone and, since
the creation of the MDR in 1983 which became its supervisory body, food
crop development has received increased emphasis. In recent years,
SATMACI's main activities have been the provision of technical advice to
coffee, cocoa, rice and maize farmers, the distribution of inputs (improved
seeds and planting material, fertilizer, chemicals, small implements) and
the preparation of farmers' credit applications to be submitted to BNDA.
SATMACI has a total staff of 2,200 of which about 1,000 field workers (45%)
for a total estimated number of farming families of 400,000 in the forest
region. The average ratio of farmers per extension agent is therefore
about 1:400. However, the actual number of farmers effectively receiving
SATMACI's assistance, although not precisely known, is estimated at not
more than 20% of the total number of farmers. Each agent is given annual
oljectives in terms of hectares to be t'supervised" instead of being
responsible for providing technical advice to all interested farmers in a
given area. These objectives are set mechanically, in a top-down manner,
on the basis of the often overly ambitious programs of the supervisory
ministries. Field personnel are ineffective: they have low technical
skills, do not receive adequate training and are not adequately supervised.
3.34      SATMACI has played an important historical role in the
development of coffee and cocoa in Cote d'Ivoire. However, its impact on
yields and productivity has been modest at best. Cocoa yields have
increased slightly, from about 300 to 350 kg/ha on average, over the last
15 years. Coffee yields have remained stagnant at 350 kg/ha. Average
yields are four to five times lower than those obtained by the better
farmers (1.5 tons/ha), and up to eight times lower than those obtained on
research stations (3 to 4 tons/ha). SATMACI provides improved planting
material (and planting supervision) for only a small fraction of the
present annual plantings. To date, only 7% of total coffee area and 10% of
total cocoa area have been planted with improved material. Spraying and
weeding of coffee and cocoa, and the pruning of coffee trees are carried
out on less than 5% of annual requirements. The impact of SATMACI on food
crop development has so far been even more negligible.



- 19 -
3.35      The current statutes of SATMACI are, no doubt, one of the reasons
for its increasing inefficiency: in an effort to control SATMACI's runaway
budgets, its statutes were revised in 1980 from those of a fairly
autonomous organisation to that of a strictly controlled public agency
("Etablis'sement Public a Caractare Industriel et Commzercial" - EPIC) with
far more restricted m-tanagerial and financial autonomy. The change did not
provide the expected improvements.  If, globally, annual spending has been
brought under control, the lack of detailed planning of annual programs and
the breakdown of the institution's MIS still do not permit to ensure that
available resources are used efficiently. The lengthy bureaucratic
accounting and operational procedures which came along with EPIC statutes
have paralyzed the agency further (final approval from Government for
procurement of inputs can take up to a year). The introduction. in 1983,
of a public accounting system in substitution for SATMACI's conventional
commercial accounting system (para 3.43) completed the unraveling-of its
financial and cost control systems: its latest audited financial statements
are for FY82. Finally, cuts in staff salaries by 40% to 60% in 1985, in
SATMACI as well as in 63 other gcvernment agencies, have induced a further
diminution in staff morale and motivation.
3.36      While it is easy to attribute the failure of SATMACI to the
perennial organizational and financial problems of parastatals, there is a
more fundamental issue to be addressed: the limitation imposed by a
development concept based on single/specialized crop agencies controlling
every aspect of the production, and sometimes, commercialisation of the
cri-p. This type of organization, which has been adopted to a varying
degree in most African countries at some time, quickly reaches the limit of
feasible management and operational efficiency, unless it begins to
gradually divest itself from some of its functions to other operators
(farmers, farmer groups, private operators). So far in Cote d'Ivoire, the
most successful organization has been CIDT. However, with almost 150,000
ha of cotton to supervise, CIDT is also starting to experience difficulties
in managing the various functions and services under its direct
responsibility. PALMINDUSTRIE, which only deals with about 90,000 ha of
oil palm plantations, had to cut its annual development program from 10,000
ha to almost zero because of difficulties in directly managing a program of
that magnitude; SAPH, in the last few years, has only been able to carry
out an annual expansion program of 2,000 to 3,000 ha.
3.37      The task given to SATMACI is of a completely different dimension:
without taking food crops' development into consideration, it has to manage
about 2.5 million ha of coffee and cocoa plantations already in the ground,
with about 70,000 ha of new plantings annually. It is therefore not
surprising that it deals only with a very small fraction of coffee and
cocoa growers. To improve the services provided to farmers, the only
practical, manageable alternative is for SATMACI to gradually divest itself
from most of its current activities while retaining planning and
supervision functions. The sector is now large enough to justify and
sustain autonomous components: farmers should be establishing their own
nurseries of improved material; private suppliers provide the necessary
inputs. The main function of SATMACI would then be to provide extension
and to promote the harmonious development of other operators.



- 20 -
(c) SODEPALM
3.38      SODEPALM was created in 1963 as a state company responsible for
the development of oil palm and coconut.  In 1978. it was split into
PALMINDUtSTRIE, responsible for oil palm and SODEPALM for coconut, rice and
cassava (Organization chart in Annex 3-4). In 1980, SODEPALM became an
EPIC and coconut and oil palm development was transfered to PALMINDUSTRIE,
leaving SODEPALM with only food crop extension responsibilities in the
coastal region. It is estimated that there are about 150,000 farming
families in SODEPALM's area. The agency has a staff of 530 of which only
210 (40%) are field extension workers. It is therefore rather top-heavy.
In 1985, about 36,000 farmers received assistance from SODEPALM, i.e. less
than 25% of all farmers in its area. The ratio of farmers to extension
agents is high at 715, considering the dispersion of rice growing farmers,
in particular for bottomland cultivation. The number of-farmers actually
receiving assistance per field agent is adequate at 170. However, until
now, the extension role of field agents has been limited, mostly consisting
in distributing improved seeds, free of charge, to rice and maize growers
with little cultural advice.
3.39      Although SODEPALM appears more dynamic than SATMACI, because of
its smaller size and a more motivated management, many of SATMACI's ills
al8o apply to SODEPALM:
(i) Technical skills of field workers are low and their training
insufficient;
(ii) The planning and monitoring of the field workers' activities
are inadequate and they receive very little technical
backstopping from their supervisors;
(iii) SODEPALM's links with research are non-existent;
(iv) As an EPIC, SODEPALM also suffers from a lack of managerial
and financial autonomy;
(v) Its MIS has totally broken down (no audited financial
statements since 1981); and
(vi) Budgetary constraints are impeding field work and cuts in
staff salaries in 1985 had a very negative effect on staff
morale.
3.40      Improvement of SATMACI's and SODEPAIM's extension services is a
necessity if Government is to successfully implement its strategy for the
developmeint of the agricultural sector. Under the project, specific
measures would be taken to increase the efficiency of the two institutions
at field level and to better monitor their use of available resources. At
the same time, measures would be taken to ensure the adequate and timely
financing of SATMACI's and SODEPALM's agreed upon annual budgets
(para 4.37).



- 21 -
2.   Agencies' Financing and Financial Management
(a) Financing of Agricultural Parastatals
3.41      Over the last few years, but most acutely since 1984, Cote
d'Ivoire's financial situation has severely constrained the budgetary
resources available for the financing of agricultural parastatals. 11/ As
a result, annual budgets have been drastically reduced by cutting staff
numbers, staff salaries, equipment and operating costs (including funds for
input procurement and for operating and maintaining vehicles); and an
increasing share of their reduced budgets could not be financed under
Government's regular budgetary resources but only through external
financing (SAL II) or resources from the Agricultural Stabilization Fund
("Caisse de Soutien et de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits Agricoles" -
CSSPPA). In 1985, the annual budgets approved by Government for
CIDT-Foodcrops, SATMACI and SODEPALM represented on average 70% of the
budgets requested by the institutions. Of the approved budgets, only 42%
could be funded under normal budgetary resources ("Budget Special
d'Investissement et d'Equipement' - BSIE). The deficit was met by
resources drawn from the CSSPPA.
3.42      In 1986, in the context of Cote d'Ivoire's continuing budgetary
constraints, the agricultural parastatals' annual budgets will be entirely
financed from CSSPPA's resources. This will create major problems for the
adequate and timely financing of these institutions, as (a) the first claim
on CSSPPA's resources is for the repayment of the country's external debt,
other uses being treated on a residual basis; (b) CSSPPA's funds are not
controlled by the Ministry of Finance and their release requires a
presidential decision; and (c) funds are not available in a predictable
manner, depending mostly on coffee and cocoa sales on the international
markets. This uncertainty in the timing of the availability of CSSPPA's
funds is very detrimental to the parastatals' efficienev. as they are
obliged to slow down field operations and to postpone payments to creditors
(input suppliers) to at least be able to meet salary obligations. It
represents a "hidden deficit" which, although difficult to quantify, is
nevertheless very real. The problem of ensuring an adequate level of
financing to CIDT, SATMACI, and SODEPALM is crucial for the project's
success: the continuation of the present severe cash flow problems would
thwart any effort to reorganize extension services on more efficient lines.
(b) Accounting and Financial Management
3.43      The managerial crisis in SATMACI and SODEPALM has not spared the
agencies' accounting and financial departments: SODEPALM and SATMACI have
not prepared annual financial statements since 1981 and 1982 respectively.
In an effort to improve accountability, a new, simplified public accounting
system was introduced in all EPICs in 1983. Its main feature is to entrust
funds accounting to a civil service accountant ("agent comptable") who is
appointed by, and responsible only to the Ministry of Finance. The new
system, grafted upon inefficiencies accumulated over a number of years and
introduced without adequate planning or training of staff, has put an
effective lid on overall spending by the agencies but failed to improve
accounting and finaniial management. Budgetary control, which depends upon
II/ SODEPALM, SATMACI, CIDT-Food Crops, SODEFEL, MOTORAGRI.



- 22 -
the general accounting system, suffers from the same ills: periodic reports
are inaccurate, incomplete and late. In addition, some debts (suppliers)
incurred in 1983 and 1984 are still outstanding. Finally, because of the
lack of adequate accounting information, SATMACI and SODEPALM experience
difficulties in preparing and submitting to Government the Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) required to justify their use of resources. There is
therefore an urgent need to undertake a complete accounting and financial
rehabilitation of SATMACI and SODEPALM. Measures would be taken under the
project to do so (paras 4.66-71).
3.44      CIDT is in a better situation.  As a semi-public company, it has
been able to maintain its financial autonomy and a commercial accounting
system. Annual accounts are produced without excessive delays and
regularly receive clean audit certificates.   CIDT has been compelled to
keep a strict control upon the execution of its annual budgets: its cotton
extension and ginning costs are reimbursed by Government on the basis of
standard costs negotiated annually ("bareme coton"), and CIDT is requested
to submit annually to the Ministry of Agriculture a detailed account of its
cotton operations. However, improvements are possible, in particular in
respect of CIDT's cost accounting system, and would be introduced under the
project (para 4.67).
F.   The Pilot Extension Project
3.45      In September 1984, the Ivorian Government, with assistance from
the World Bank's Regional Mission in Western Africa (RMWA), initiated an
agricultural extension pilot project. The Bank had at that time set up a
special extension unit within RMWA, with two staff devoting full time to
extension activities in Western Africa. A preliminary survey of existing
extension systems undertaken jointly with Government indicated that
substantial improvements could be achieved by (a) more systematic planning
and monitoring of field agents activities; (b) improving agents' technical
and communication skills and providing better technical backstopping from
supervisors; and (c) better linkages between extension and research
agencies.   The objective of the pilot project was to do so by introducing
the main principle of the T&V system in selected districts of the
operational areas of CIDT, SATMACI and SODEPALM. Financing of US$2.5
million was provided under the Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project
(para 3.09) to carry out the program while the preparation of the proposed
full-scale extension project would be undertaken.
3.46      Although the initial objective had been for the three agencies to
introduce a few specific measures in a limited number of test zones, CIDT
adopted the proposed measures throughout its whole area of jurisdiction.
SATMACI and SODEPALI each introduced the measures in two test zones. The
measures included (a) the adoption of a systematic work program for field
extension agents, based on a fortnightly schedule of visits to groups of
farmers; (b) improved technical backstopping of field agents by Subject
Hatter Specialists (SMSs); (c) intensive, regular training programs for all
extension staff; and (d) the improvement of links with research
institutions (IRCC and IDESSA). The pilot project focussed on a few
technical recommendations for the main food (maize, rice) and cash crops



- 23 -
(coffee, cocoa), which were well tested, simple and did not require
increased use of modern inputs: timely planting, proper spacing, weeding,
pruning. Extension agencies endeavoured to convince farmers to apply
recommended practices to a small portion of the field, to minimize risk.
3.47      Although the pilot project was launched without extensive
preparation and has so far been implemented only during a single cropping
season, some results are already apparent:
(a) Work organization and management. The field agents' strictly
scheduled work program has allowed a much improved programming
and monitoring of their activities, as well as a better technical
support by their supervisors. Systematic planning pointed to
some aberrations in field level staffing densities and prompted a
more rational redistribution of staff. Also, the better planned
and executed program of field agents' activities allowed for time
and transportation cost savings.
(b) Farmers' coverage. Preliminary surveys indicate that the use of
farmers' contact groups allowed for a marked increase in the
number of farmers regularly contacted and that most farmers
preferred the new system of visits on a fixed schedule.
(c) Training. Fortnightly training sessions of front-line agents in
the recommendations to be extended during the following two-week
period turned out to be both very useful and very well received
by the staff concerned. The experiment clearly revealed that
field staff's technical and communication skills were inadequate
and that their improvement was a top priority.
(d) Links with research. The limited training and field visit
program carried out jointly by extension and research agencies
highlighted the urgent need for closer cooperation, in particular
for research to get better feed-back about farmers' needs and
problems and focus more specifically on solving these problems
through stepped-up applied and adaptive research programs.
3.48      A very encouraging result of the pilot project was the
establishment by farmers in the project's test zones of numerous small
plots where they implemented extension agents' recommendations. About
1,400 such plots were established of an average size of 0.1 to 0.2 ha each.
The analysis of the production and yield achieved on these plots indicated
increases in rice and maize yields of between 30% and 50%, when compared to
traditionally farmed fields. Timely weeding of coffee and cocoa increased
yield by up to 80%. 12/ Results have been sufficiently impressive to
convince Government to generalize the measures introduced under the pilot
12/ An average yield increase of about 300-400 kg/ha was registered on
demonstration plots for maize and rice. The timely pruning and
weeding of coffee and cocoa plantations induced average increases in
yields of about 350 to 400 kg/ha.



- 24 -
project to the entire operational areas of CIDT, SATMACI and SODEPALM.
(Details on the Agricultural Extension Pilot Project are in Annex 3-5.)
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General
1.   Project Rationale
4.01      Over the coming decade, Cote d'Ivoire's overall economic growth
will largely depend on growth in the agricultural-sector. The global
policy environment is being addressed under the structural adjustment
process. Agricultural growth will critically depend upon improvements in
the productivity of available resources, in particular of labor. Many
simple, well tested research recommendations are available but not yet
applied by most Ivorian farmers. To ensure a better transfer of the
available technology to farmers, it is necessary to improve the linkages
between research and extension as well as the efficiency of the country's
extension services. Although extension is only but one of the agricultural
services In need of improvement, it is central to achieving results: as is
already apparent under the Pilot Project, an initial emphasis on simple
husbandry improvements that do not necessitate the use of modern inputs or
recourse to credit, permits substantial, immediate productivity gains; as
more complex research results come on stream and input distribution and
credit services improve, an increasingly efficient extension system will
also be necessary to transfer to farmers technological innovations
requiring increased use of modern inputs.
2.   Project Concept and Objectives
4.02      The project would be the first phase of a multi-phased
development effort which would introduce the main principles of the T&V
system in CMte d'Ivoire's three major extension agencies - CIDT, SATMACI
and SODEPALM - and then improve the system operations and efficiency over
time. Experience gained in other parts of the world has demonstrated that
10 to 15 years are necessary to fully implement the institutional reforms
needed for the full success of the T&V system. The project would therefore
be the first tranche of a major institution building effort and should not
be viewed as a self-contained, one-time project. Under the project, the
emphasis would be on (a) increasing the proportion of farmers receiving
assistance from extension services, from about 25% at present to about 50%
by 1990; (b) extending simple crop husbandry improvements and better ways
of using modern inputs where available; and (c) increasing collaboration
between extension and research to develop technical innovations well
adapted to farmers' constraints.' The measures proposed under the project
would mostly aim at improving the operational efficiency of the three
concerned extension agencies through a reorg--ization and better
utilisation of available resources.  The ree    would be streamlined, more



- 25 -
efficient organizations able to better implement larger physical programs
with a limited increase in their overall budgets.
3. Project DescrIption
4.03      The project would support the agencies' improvement program over
an Initial four-year period through:
(a) The modification of agricultural extension services in CIDT,
SATMACI and SODEPALM to incorporate the main principles of the
T&V system; while the basic approach to strengthening extension
services would be the same for the three
organizations--systematic schedule of visits to farmers' contact
groups, efficient technical backstopping of field workers by
,   subject matter specialists-necessary adjustments of the system
would be made to take into account different levels of
agricultural development, agro-ecological and socio-cultural
conditions and levels of efficiency of the existing extension
services in the three agencies (para 4.45).
(b) Systematic in-service training of extension staff at all levels
(para 4.56).
(c) Improving the research-extension linkages through a more direct,
decentralized involvement of research institutions in adaptive
research and farm trials, and the active participation of
extension staff (in particular SMSs) in adaptive research (para
4.51).
(d)  Developing and setting-up an effective monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) system of extension activities (para 4.57).
(e)  Setting-up an efficient MIS (para 4.66) in each agency.
4.04      The project would finance the following components:
(a) Additional staff for (i) extension services to meet the need for
wider farmer coverage, better supervision and technical
backstopping of field workers (supervisors, SMSs), as well as for
staff specialization (agents in charge of input supply and credit
activities to relieve extension agents from these duties),
(ii) expanded training programs, (iii) M&E units, and
(iv) adaptive research programs.
(b) Setting-up of sub-regional research stations and of small
experimentation sites ("Points d'Observation" - PO) in the forest
zone, and construction or rehabilitation of training facilities.
(c) Transportation equipment (mopeds, cars) to increase the mobility
of extension and research staff, as well as research, training
and office equipment.
(d) Incremental operating costs.



- 26 -
(e) Technical assistance for (i) carrying out bench-mark studies of
the forest and savanna socio-economic characteristics and
eEtablishing effective M&E systems within the extension agencies;
(ii) the. design and establishment of an efficient accounting
system in each of the three agencies; (iii) the strengthening of
SATMACI and SODEPALM's financial management; (iv) assessing the
technical and managerial skills of SATMACI's and SODEPALM's
mid0le and higher level management and proposing a comprehensive
staff training and redeployment plan; and (v) the implementation
of applied and adaptive research programs.
B.   Detailed Features
4.05      Summaries of project's features for the three development
agencies (CIDT, SATMACI and SODEPALM) and the two research institutions
(IDESSA and IRCC) concerned are given below and presented in detail In the
Project Files Nos. Al, A2, A3 and A6.
1.   Incremental Extension Staff
4.06      Under the project, the number of Field Extension Workers (FEWs)
necessary to efficiently carry out extension activities would be determined
on the basis of the number of farmers that each FEW is able to visit
regularly. This number would vary according to types of farming,
population densities, settlement patterns and facilities of communication.
The effectiveness of FEWs would be increased by (a) the establishment or
strengthening of an intermediate link between the Zone Chief (ZCs) 13/ and
front line agents: Field Supervisors (FSs) would each be in charge of the
planning and monitoring of the activities of about 10 FEWs; (b) better
technical backstopping of field staff by the appointment at sector and/or
regional level of Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs); and (c) intensive
training programs to improve the technical and communication skills of
extension agents. In addition, a cadre of staff specialized in input
distribution and credit activities would be created or strengthened to
release extension staff from most of their current input supply
responsibilities (para 4.46). In SATMACI and CIDT, ZCs would be assisted
by a deputy (DZC) with whom they would share technical and/or
administrative responsibilities, and would therefore be able to devote more
time to the planning and supervision of extension activities in their area.
Finally, SODEPALM's Regional Directors would be assisted by financial
managers and CIDT would appoint financial managers in three regions
selected for a pilot experiment in budgetary and accounting
decentralization (para 4.67).
4.07      Detailed projections of incremental extension staff are presented
in Annex 4-1 and the Project File's relevant Working Papers. The table
13/ CIDT's operational area is divided into 13 regions (sectors) and 55
zones; SATMACI's into 6 regions and 22 zones; and SODEPALM's into 2
regions.



- 27 -
below presents the incremental staff necessary for each of the three
agencies by 1989 to adopt the extension organization described in para
4.06: 14/
Incremental Extension Staff Requirements
(numbers)
CIDT          SATMACI         SODEPALM
Incremental Extension Staff
Field Extension Workers            -              150              -
Field Supervisors                115                -              -
Input Supply Agents                -              117            41
Subject Matter Specialists         9               66             21
Deputy Zone Chiefs/Adm. Assts.   56                14              -
Regional Financial Managers        3                -              4
In spite of the substantial increase in extension efforts assigned by
Government to the three agencies for the period under consideration, the
proposed reorganization would permit to keep the number of incremental
field staff relatively low. For CIDT, the number of FEWs would in fact
remain at current levels while for SODEPALM the evolution of the number of
field staff would be the same with or without the project. Field
superviors, SMSs, Input Supply Agents (ISAs) and Deputy Zone Chiefs would
mostly be selected from the existing staff, through appropriate screening
procedures, and would receive the necessary complementary training. There
would be no difficulty in recruiting agricultural school graduates with the
necessary qualifications to meet complementary staff needs. The technical
qualifications of SMSs would be gradually improved during the project
period through intensive training and new recruitments.
2.   Adaptive Research
4.08      The incremental staff and facilities required to carry out the
proposed project component are presented below:
14/ These incremental staffing requirements provide for the basic
reorganization of the three agencies' extension services over their
entire operational areas. However, additional staffing needs, linked
to the specific objectives of other development projects such as the
Dabakala/Katiola Development Project, to be implemented by CIDT with
financing from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD),
would be financed under these specific projects.



- 28 -
Incremental Research Staff and Facilities Requirements
(numbers)''
CIDT    SATMACI    SODEPALM    IDESSA   IRCC
Applied Research Unit Chiefs   -           1          1           1       1
Researchers                     -          -         -            4       6
Regional/Experimentation
Sites Managers                  -         11         4            6       -
Enumerators                    10         10         8           12       -
Regional Research Stations      -          -         -            3       -
Experimentation Sites           -          5         4            -       -
4.09      CIDT's on-going adaptive research programs for cotton
cultivation, conducted in close collaboration with IDESSA (para 3.32), are
satisfactory. Under the project, CIDT's adaptive research program in food
crops would be expanded. The project would finance 10 additional staff in
charge of food crop farm trials.
4.10      SATMACI would establish a Research and Development (R/D) service
to ensure an adequate linkage research institutes. This service would be
headed by a staff with experience in adaptive research and have a
representative in each of SATMACI's six Regional Directorates. Five new
POs would be added to the two existing ones, where SATMACI would carry out,
in close collaboration with research institutes, agreed upon adaptive
research programs (para 4.51). All seven POs would be adequately equipped
under the project and staffed by (a) a well qualified agronomist in charge
of carrying out agreed adaptive research programs under the technical
guidance of research staff and SATMACI's regional R/D staff; and (b) two
enumerators to carry out farm trials.
4.11      SODEPALM would establish four POs-one in each of the main
agroclimatic zones of its operation area--to test, in collaboration with
research institutes, new technologies before their extension to farmers
and for the training of its staff. The incremental staff would include one
RID engineer at HQ, four PO managers and eight enumerators in charge of
farm trial programs.
4.12      IDESSA.  IDESSA's existing Food Crop Center would establish an
Adaptive Research Service, managed by an experienced agricultural economist
and with a staff of four food crop specialists (rice, maize, yam and
cassava). The Service would undertake, in close collaboration with the
Development Agencies, applied and adaptive research programs on six
decentralized out-stations covering the savanna and forest zones, on the
Development Agencies' POs as well as on farmers' fields. Three regional
outstations already exist (Ferkessedougou, Man and Gagnoa) and would
receive complementary staff and equipment. Three new stations would be
established under the project in the forest area (San Pedro, Aboisso and
Abengourou) to provide close technical support to SATMACI's and SODEPALM's
operations. The staff of each out-station would consist of an agronomist,
a phytopathologist and two enumerators.



- 29 -
4.13      IRCC would also establish an Adaptive Research Service in charge
of implamenting, in close cooperation with SATMACI, the coffee-cocoa
adaptive research programs agreed under the project. The service would be
headed at IRCC's headquarters by an agro-economist with adequate experience
in adaptive research and forest farming systems. It would have a
researcher posted in each of SATMACI's six Regional Directorates,
responsible for implementing and coordinating the research program and the
backstopping and training of SATMACI's personnel in his region.
3.   Training
4.14      CIDT's existing training programs and staff are satisfactory.
The project would finance (a) the renovation and equipment of the existing
55 small training centers (one in each zone); and (b) complementary
training equipment and material for CIDT's ongoing training activities
(para 4.22).
4.15      SATMACI would recruit an experienced training specialist to head
its Training Department, to ensure adequate programming and implementation
of the expanded training program envisaged under the project. SATMACI's
main training center in Daloa would be improved and five smaller regional
training centers established in each of SATMACI's other Regional
Directorates. Each center would be equipped with adequate facilities (para
4.23) and headed by a staff experienced in communication methods. In
addition, each Regional Directorate would be provided with a mobile unit
fully equipped for audio-visual communication aimed at field agents and
farmers.
4.16      SODEPALM would recruit an experienced training specialist to
assist the manager of its Training Department. The two existing training
centers at San Pedro and La-Me would be renovated and provided with new
teaching equipment and material (para 4.24). Ten small training facilities
would be established at zone level for carrying out fortnightly training
sessions for front-line extension staff.
4.   Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17      A new service would be established in CIDT's existing Studies and
Statistics Unit, to be specifically in charge of the project's proposed M&E
activities. The project would finance the necessary additional staff (1
agricultural economist, 3 supervisors and 26 enumerators) as well as
equipment (micro-computer, office equipment) and vehicles. Funds would
also be provided to undertake a complementary study of savanna village and
farm socioeconomic characteristics to improve the statistical base of
CIDT's surveys (para 4.58).
4.18      A M&E unit would be established within SATMACI, directly
responsible to its General Manager. The project would finance the
necessary staff: one unit chief with suitable qualifications and experience
and one statistician/computer specialist at HQ; one regional supervisor and
six enumerators in each of SATMACI's Regional Directorates. The M&E unit



- 30 -
would be provided with adequate equipment (para 4.23).  Funds would be
provided to undertake a bench-mark study of the forest zone's socioeconomic
characteristics (para 4.58).
4.19      A M&E unit would be established, directly responsible to
SODEPALM's General Manager. The project would finance the necessary staff
(1 Service Chief, 2 supervisors and 12 enumerators) and equipment
(vehicles. micro-computer).
5.   Management and Technical Assistance
4.20      Measures would be taken under the project to improve the  -
management and accountability of extension agencies:
(i) The unit of the Ministry of Budget's Public Investment
Department in charge of the planning and monitoring of
agricultural parastatal's activities would be strengthened
by the recruitment of a staff responsible-for the monitoring
of CIDT's, SATMACI's and SODEPALM's operations under the
project (para 4.43).
(ii) Nine man-months of technical assistance would be provided
for independant auditors to prepare audited closing balance
sheets for SATMACI and SODEPALM as of June 30, 1986 to
determine their real financial situation and identify all
outstanding liabilities (para 4.68);
(iii)  About 11 man-months of technical assistance would be
provided to design and set up within SATMACI and SODEPALM an
efficient accounting and management system including
budgetary and cost accounting (para 4.66);
(iv)  Funds would also be provided (about six man-months) for the
improvement of CIDT's HIS (para 4.67);
(v) SATMACI and SODEPALM would each recruit an experi'enced
financial advisor for a period of three years to
(a) participate in the design of new MIS; (b) manage its
financing, planning and budgeting activities; (c) review and
streamline internal financial and budgeting procedures; and
(d) train counterpart staff (para 4.69);
(vi) Funds would be provided (about 18 man-months) to prepare a
technical and managerial skill gap analysis for SATMACI's
and SODEPALM's middle and higher level management and design
a staff training and re-deployment plan for each of these
institutions (para 4.65).
4.21      An additional 169 man-months of technical assistance would also
be provided under the project in key technical areas: (a) the design and
establishment of the proposed M&E system within CIDT, SATMACI and SODEPALM
(3 man-months); (b) a bench-mark study of the forest zone (12 man-months)



- 31 -
and a complementary survey of the savanna socio-economic characteristics
(10 man-months); and (c) the implementation of the proposed adaptive
research component: an experienced researcher (3 years) to head IDESSA's
Adaptive Research Service, the head of IRCC's Adaptive Research Service (3
years) and two of its proposed six regional research staff (three years
each). 15/  It is estimated that about half of the technical assistance
(financial end technical) requirements would be met from Ivorian sources
with adequate qualifications and experience. Responsibility for the
recruitment of the various categories of technical assistance is given in
Annex 4-2 and their Terms of Reference presented in Project Files Nos. A6,
A8 and A10.
6.   Civil Works, Transport and Equipment
4.22      CIDT.  About 15 cats would be provided for incremental staff in
managerial positions. Eight cars equipped with video and projection
equipment would be financed to carry out training activities for field
agents and farmers. CIDT's existing 55 training centers would be provided
with complementary training equipment and materials. The project would
also finance the production of short technical video programs. Finally,
the three sectors participating in the budgetary/accounting
decentralization experiment and the M&E unit would each be provided with a
micro-computer.
4.23      SATMACI.  The effectiveness of extension staff would be improved
by providing them with mopeds (through individual loans provided by
SATMACI). Moped maintenance and operating allowances, which were
eliminated in 1984 for budgetary reasons, would be resumed and field
extension staff would receive a daily subsistence allowance when on field
trips.  The project would finance about 110 cars for the incremental   .
supervisory and technical staff, 245 motorcycles for CMOs and enumerators,
665 mopeds for front-line agents (of which about 500 to replace part of the
existing fleet) as well as four mobile video units and one small bus. The
project would finance the establishment of 5 POs (10 ha) each with a small
office and a go-down, the renovation of its main training center in Daloa
and the construction of 5 small regional training facilities. SATMACI's
POs would receive the basic necessary meteorological and agricultural
equipment. Training Centers would be equipped with visual aid material and
equipment (posters, transparencies, projectors, flip boards) and office
equipment. The project would also finance the production of short
technical video programs for training purposes. Finally, the M&E unit
would be provided with a micro-computer and basic field survey equipment.
4.24      SODEPALM.  Field extension agents would be provided with mopeds
(on loan from SODEPALM). The project would provide about 50 cars for the
additional supervisory and technical staff as well as one small bus and two
mobile video units for SODEPALM's main training centers. The project would
also provide for replacement of 30 cars from the aging SODEPALM fleet.
15/ The latter two researchers have already been recruited under the
Pilot-Extension Project.



- 32 -
About 43 mopeds would be provided for the incremental R/lD and M&E field
staff. Field extension staff, as well as R/D and M&E staff, would receive
an appropriate daily allowance when on operational travel. As In SATMACI's
case, the moped operating and maintenance allowances would be resumed.
Four POs would be created, SODEPALM's two training centers in San Pedro and
La-Me renovated and 10 small field level training centers established for
the fortnightly training of front-line extension staff. The four POs would
receive basic meteorological equipment and agricultural machinery. The
training centers would be equipped with audio-visual and office equipment.
The project would also finance the production of short video programs for
training purposes.  Finally, the M&E unit would be provided with a
micro-computer and basic field survey equipment.
4.25      IDESSA.  Very basic complementary facilities (offices and storage
facilities) would be established at HQs to house the new Adaptive Research
Service, and 3 new small research out-stations would be created in the
forest zone. Agricultural equipment would be provided for the main
research station in Bouake, mostly for the production of food crop
foundation seeds. Each of the out-stations would receive meteorological
and agricultural equipment. Staff of the adaptive research unit would be
provided with necessary transport means (22 cars, I truck and 22
motorcycles) to carry out research programs, provide technical backstopping
to development agencies' staff and conduct training programs.
4.26      IRCC.  Agreed upon adaptive research programs would be
implemented on IRCC's four existing stations and SATMACI's own seven POs as
well as through farm trials. The project would finance (a) additional
equipment for IRCC's existing research stations; (b) the construction of
offices for the new unit and the renovation of IRCC's Divo regional
station; and (c) vehicles (eight cars and one truck) for the incremental
research staff.
7.   Incremental Operating Costs
4.27      The project would finance the salaries of incremental staff and
the operating cost of incremental vehicles, buildings and equipment.
Provisions would be made for moped maintenance allowances and for daily
subsistence allowances for extension staff when on field duty.
C.   Cost and Financing
1.   Cost Estimates
4.28      The total cost of the proposed project over the 1986-89 four-year
period, including all incremental capital and recurrent expenditures, is
estimated at CFAF 20.5 billion (US$58.5 million), of which CFAF 5.5 billion
(US$15.6 million) or 27% cf total cost in foreign exchange and about CPAF
4.6 billion (US$13.1 million) or 22% of total cost in taxes and duties. A
total of 24 man-years of technical assistance (research, monitoring &
evaluation, personnel and financial management) are included. Base costs



- 33 -
are estimated in June 1986 prices.  Physical contingencies of varying
amounts have been included over a large number of investment and operating
cost items: total physical contingencies amount to 6% of total base costs
with individual contingencies ranging from 52 of base cost on staff -
salaries to 152 of base costs on civil works.  Price contingencies have
been applied to base costs and physical contingencies over an estimated
implementation period of six years (para 4.33). They have been calculated
on the basis of projected price increases applled separately to local and
foreign costs. 161 Total contingencies amount to US$11.6 million or 25% of
total project base costs. 17/ Cost estimates are summarized in the table
belowt, in Annex 4-3 and detailed in Project File No. A9.
Proiect Cost Srt
(190-19897-
~~~~~~~~~~t     MXD-(         )   2   BanCos
btmsi Sezrviae    6,018  1,265   7,283  17.2   3.6  20.8  17   44
Jaseri 6 Ueu1im_t    2,419  1,332   3,751   6.9    3.8  10.7  36    23
Tzaiidz PrIn.     1,828  901   2,729   5.2    2.6  7.8  33    17
Rn£torl*ig& B6-lgaW  1,134  302  1,436  3.2  0.9   4.1    21  9
1n,wguutM Atw      228  326    54   0.7    0.9  1.6  59        3
1iruinta A. I,pta  266  400    666   0.8    1.1  1.9  60      4
Total Bea cs     11,893  4,526  16,418  34.0   1L9  46.9  28 m
Phyafrl caLt1rm1a  691  283    975   2.0    0.8  2.8  28       6
Prim Ccmitknud    2.424   667   3,091   6.9    1.9  8.8  22    19
1MLWIYIL E S EMlA   15,008  5,476  2D,484  42.9   15.6  58.5  27   15
a/ Tw3u1-Af 7FAY 4.6 biUlim ($13.1 LIU=) In   ad dm, i.. = of tot. pzjmt
October 1986
Annex 4-4 presents the impact of the proposed additional extension effort
on the three extension agencies' budgets over the project period. Overall,
project's incremental costs would amount to about 13% of the ageucies'
16/  1986-1992: Bank estimated increases of local costs of 6.0% per annum,
and foreign costs (calculated according to Guidelines on expected
price increases and interest rates, February 5, 1986) of 7.2%, 6.8%,
6.8%, 7%, 7.12 and 4% thereafter.
17/ The six year implementation period for this project has been based on
past experience with similar projects as reflected in the relevant
standard profile (Annex 4-5). It is however possible that, if the
project is implemented more efficiently and with fewer delays, the
implementation period could be reduced to 4 years. This would result
in a reduction in total project cost of US$1.1 (3% of incremental
total cost) from US$58.5 million to US$57.4 million.



- 34 -
projected costs of operations without the project. The relative importance
of these incremental costs would vary according to the current level of
efficiency of each agency and the adequacy of the resources curzontly at
their disposal to carry-out their planned program of activity (from 6% of
without project financing requirements for CIDT to 40% for SODEPALM).
2.   Financing
4.29      A Bank loan of US$34.0 million would be made to the Ivorian
Government at the Bank's standard variable rate for a period of 20 years
including a five-year grace period. The Loan would finance 75% of total
project costs net of taxes (US$45.4 million). The Loan would finance part
of the project's incremental investments, technical assistance and
operating costs. Financing of incremental operating costs would be on a
declining basis over the project implementation period (para 4.34). As
project implementation started in January 1986, retroactive financing up to
US$3.4 million is recommended.
4.30      Project financing would be as follows:
Project Financing Plan
(US$million)
Government          Bank            Total
Investments                         5.3             5.3              10.6
Operating Costs                    17.7            26.4              44.1
Technical Assistance                1.5             2.3               3.8
Total (gross)                      24.5            34.0              58.5
percentage of total              42.0            58.0             100.0
Total (net)                        11.4            34.0              45.4
percentage of total              25.0            75.0             100.0
Government counterpart funds amounting to US$24.5 million, including
US$13.1 million in taxes on project expenditures and loan proceeds (US$34.0
million) would be passed on as grant to CIDT (US$10.4 million), SATMACI
(US$28.5 million), SODEPALM (US$10.2 million), IDESSA (US$6.5 million),
IRCC (US$2.6 million) and the Ministries of Finance and 'Rudget (US$0.3
million) through their respective annual budgets. The sigiing of
Subsidiary Grant Agreements between the government and CIUT, SATMACI,
SODEPALM, TDESSA and IRCC would be a condition of effectiveness (para 5.02
(a)).



-35 
3.   Procurement
4.31       All goods and services financed under the project would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. The table below lists
contracts to be awarded and procurement methods.
Phonmenst 6.rEEements,
Items                      ICB a/  LCB b/    Otber    NA .e    Total
Vihcles                    3.4      0.6       ...      ...       4.0
(1.7)   (0.3)                        (2.0)
Pasearch and
Agricultual iquipimnt      2.0      0.2        ...               2.2
0(10)   (0 1)                        (1 1)
Treiring Equirmwnt         06       0.4        ....1.0
--EkinB  ERx@rnt   (0.3)   (0.2)                       (0.5)
Office BRuipient           0.'6     0.2       ..       ..0.8
(0.3)   (0 1)                         (0.4)
ermentation  c/04                                     ..         .
SM    (ClearIng)               ~~~(0.2)             (0.2)
Buildin     n cS/          ...      2.2       0.4      ...       2.2
d/Udhl  c/   ... (1.1)                       (1 1)
Tedmnical Assistmnce4       ...     ...       3.8      ...       3.8
Ass e d/ ~~~~~~( 1 2.3 )               .      ..2.3)
qCamting Costs e...                 ...                 44.1    ".1
(26.4)  (26.4)
Total Costs                VX                           -z6 .zt 44 158
(3.3)   (1.8)     (2.5)     (26.4)  (34.0)
_   _       =
a/  Cotrwts for the proaaenit of goods valued at US$200 000 equivalnt or Ore
---q. . - ---- ---~    -~         bl~--  ('CB. Such contracts wuld
xiuld be rrd t        i    finternatioal  otitive b               (USB1. millon)
e inly vehicles (abut US$4.0       *        agricultura  t   a1.2aidof)
t equlpiit (US$1.0 milin) researc          (US$1.0         and
eauimiat, inclduin inicr>oxmuiters, (US$0.8 )dlIn. Proarnrmt for these goods
woildbe prepared on an anua basis ad done throuii grouped bidding packages.
b/ When hkidng is not feasible, ontracts for vehicles and equipmnat not
w PtsYe4ne US200,000 but over US$100,000 iuy be aazrded on the basis of local
coqitIve bdi (L) rocedures, wbieh are accqptable to the Bank, subject to an
axer'Vgate ceIlir ofUS$1.0 m if.in wrth of gods to be so procned during the entire
pnject period.  Contracts for gods (vehicles, I:grnt) of  s    thEn US100,000 muld
be a=£d dmxgh local coapetitive bidding or  xsl xgping subject to an aren^te
ceiling of UB$0.miLian equivalent worth of goos to be so pnromed durng t entir
project peid. When xlocal sbopping is used, a mbinum of three quotatito  w0Ud be
obta1iEd.
cf   lad         for the propsed ee      tation sites (US$0.4 iniUon) and comstriuct
-    fr             (Uand tnir  purpoes ¢$2.2 millbon) wal he
sr y and t1me-wie and tmetore not suitable for ICw. They woud
be carried out on force accunt, throug IB or dh    local  ping for  at   of
less tan US$20,000 in uhii  case three quotations mild be reured.
d/  All tehical assistance wxdd be recruited In accordance with Bank
Sgddellnes. Tera of Referece hae bee prepared and are presnted in the Project
Filets relant obrking Papers.
el/  Nt atpicable: =stly saies, vdeiles, operating css, tr l alloak   atid cost
of  d¢ progra



- 36 -
The total value of goods to be procured through ICB would be about US$6.6
million (11% of total project incremental costs); through LCB US$3.6
million (6%); other methods US$4.2 million (82) including US$3.8 million of
technical assistance contracts.  About US$44.1 million or 752 of total
project costs concern extension agencies' operating costs (mostly staff
salaries and other operating costs) for which procurement methods are not
relevant. US$26.4 million of the Bank loan would be disbursed against
these operating costs through submission to the Bank of government
certified Statements of Expenditures (SOs).
4.32      Review.  All bidding packages for goods estimated to cost more
than US$200,000 equivalent would require Bank's prior approval, as would
the final award of the related contracts. Prior Bank approval, would also
be required for the procurement of computer equipment and the recruitment
of all technical assistance regardless of the related contract's amount.
These arrangements would represent prior review by the Bank of about 80% of
the total estimated value of contracts. The otber contracts would be
subject to random post-review by the Bank after contract award. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the above procurement and review
procedures would be followed (para 5.01 (a)).
4.   Disbursements
4.33      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over an estimated
six year period. This is based on Bank-wide experience with agricultural
sector loans and is somewhat shorter than the historical disbursement
profiles for all agricultural projects Bank-wide, for which full
disbursement generally requires an average of nine years. Faster
disbursements are however anticipated for the following reasons: (a) other
Bank-financed agricultural extension (T&V) projects have not experienced
important implementation and disbursement delays; (b) retroactive financing
of about US$3.4 million would be required to cover the Bank-financed share
of project costs during the period January 1, 1986 to loan signing;
(c) most investments would take place in the first two years of project
implementation; and (d) about 75% of the loan would be disbursed against
selected items of the concerned institutions' annual operating budgets and
therefore would not be subject to implementation delays.
4.34      The disbursements categories, allocations and Bank share of
eligible expenditures to be financed would be as follows:



- 37 -
Disbursement of IBRD Loan
Amount of Loan
allocated           g of Expenditures
Category                  (US$ million)        to be financed
1. Vehicles, Agricul-
tural machinery,
Research Equipment,
Training Equipment,
Office Equipment,
Land clearing and                       50% of local expenditures and
civil works.                5.0        100% of foreign expenditures
2. Technical assistance                    60% of local expenditures and
and Studies.                2.5        100% of foreign expenditures
3. Extension agencies                       10% of local expenditures in 1986
eligible operating
costs, a/ and MOF's                     50% of local expenditures in 1987
Project Staff.             23.0
30% of local expenditures in 1988
10% of local expenditures in 1989
4. Unallocated                 3.5
Total                      34.0
a/ See Annex 4-5 for detail of eligible items and for estimates of total
amount involved, annually, for each eligible item.
Disbursements under Category 1 for computer equipment and for other bidding
packages over US$200,000 equivalent and all disbursements under Category 2
would be fully documented. Disbursements for all other expenditures would
be requested on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). The
supporting documentation would be retained by the Borrowers Debt
Amortization Fund (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement - CAA) and made
available for inspection by Bank missions.
4.35      CIDT accounting system is adequate to record disbursement
data. Measures would be taken to (a) provide the necessary technical
assistance to design and set up within SATMACI and SODEPA'M an efficient
accounting system (para 4.66); and (b) establish an audited closing balance



- 38 -
sheet as of June 30, 1986 for SATMACI and SODEPALM (para 4.67) for ensuring
also that Bank disbursements under the project would only finance eligible
costs incurred during the project period. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that IDESSA and IRCC would maintain separate accounts for
project-related activities (para 5.01 (b)). Other conditionalities
pertaining to the setting-up of an efficient accounting system and of
closing balance sheets are discussed in para 4.71.
4.36      To improve the efficient and timely implementation of the
project, the Bank would deposit, after loan effectiveness, an initial sum
of US$4.0 million in a Special Account with CAA to finance the Bank's share
of Project eligible expenditures corresponding to about four months of
project implementation. The Bank would replenish the Account upon receipt
of satisfactory evidence that expenditures financed on resources were
eligible for financing out of the fund. All Bank eligible expenditures
would be financed from the Special Account unless otherwise previously
agreed to by the Bank. Should any disbursement made from the special
account not be acceptable to the Bank, Government would be required to
deposit the corresponding amount back into the Special Account or, if the
Bank so requests, refund to the Bank an amount equal to the non-eligible
amount. Except in case of direct payment, no reimbursement application for
leas than US$50,000 equivalent would be accepted. Assurances on the above
points were obtained at negotiations (para 5.01 (c)).
4.37      To avoid that agricultural parastatals, and in particular the
project's implementing agencies, experience recurring cash flow problems
(para 3.41), measures have been introduced under SAL III to ensure that,
starting in FY87, their approved annual budgets would be fully funded by
regular budgetary resources (BSIE) and would not depend upon allocations
from CSSPPA. Complementary measures would be taken under the proposed
project to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources: first,
SATMACI's and SODEPALM's financial management would be strengthened
(para 4.69) to ensure that the agencies prepare rapidly the statements of
expenditures (SOEs) required for the release of budgetary funds. Also,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that the budgetary resources
necessary to finance the project's counterpart funds and the balance of the
agencies' approved annual budgets would be released through: (a) a first
tranche, representing four months of approved budgets, available as of
January 31 of each year at the latest; and (b) successive tranches
thereafter, upon submission by the agencies of statements of expenditures
providing satisfactory evidence for the use of the resources put at their
disposal (para 5.01 (d)).



- 39 -
5.   Reporting, Accounts and Audit
4.38      Reporting.  Each implementing agency would be responsible for
monitoring project implementation, including physical and institutional
objectives. Implementing agencies would prepare semi-annual progress
reports to be submitted to their supervisory ministries and to the Bank.
These semi-annual reports would assess progress (physical, institutional,
budgetary) against agreed annual program of operations and targets. To
this effect, the implementing agencies would communicate to the Bank before
the start of each fiscal year (a) their respective programs of operations
(tMProgrammes Annuels d'Operations" - PAM); (b) their detailed annual
training programs; (c) their detailed annual adaptive research programs,
including the respective implementation and financial responsibilities of
extension and research agencies (para 4.53); and (d) their detailed annual
M&E program. Assurances were given at negotiations to this effect (para
5.01 (e)). Project implementation would also be monitored by MINAG's and
MDR's respective Planning and Budgeting Departments and by the Unit
established specifically for this purpose within the Ministry of Budget
(para 4.42). These Departments and Unit would undertake regular
supervision missions (at least twice a year) and would prepare detailed
supervision reports.
4.39      Mid-Term Review.  Because of the nature of this project, with its
emphasis on institution-building reforms, the Ivorian Government, the
implementing agencies and the Bank would carry out a joint mid-term review
of the project before June 30, 1988. This review would assess progress in
the physical implementation of the project and in the achievement of its
institutional objectives in particular with respect to (a) improvement in
farmers' coverage; (b) improvement in the links between research and
extension and in the generation of well adapted technologies; (c) reduction
in the unit cost of extension services; (d) improvement in extension
agencies' operational planning and budgeting as well as accounting and
financial management; and (e) the timely and appropriate financing of
extension agencies' approved activities. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations (para 5.01 (f)). The Government and the project's
implementation agencies would undertake, at the end of the project period,
a completion report summarizing performance under the project and
evaluating its achievements and problems.
4.40      Accounts and Audits.  CIDT existing accounting system is
satisfactory to record project activities. Measures would be taken
(para 4.70) to ensure that SATMACI's and SODEPALM's accounts are brought
up-to-date and properly maintained. IDESSA and IRCC would maintain
separate accounts for project's activities. Assurances were given at
negotiations that the implementing agencies would (a) maintain appropriate
records and accounts; (b) have accounts, year-end financial statements and
SOEs sent to the Bank for disbursement under the Bank Loan audited by
independant auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (c) submit audited annual
accounts and audit report to the Bank within six months of the end of the
financial year (para 5.01 (g)). The auditors would provide a long form
report including detailed comments on the financial, general and cost
accounting system and an assessment of the operational efficiency of the
agency. This report would be submitted to the Bank.



- 40 -
D.   Project Implementation, Organization and Management
4.41      There are no central services within the Ministries of
Agriculture and Rural Development which have overall responsibility for
overseeing agricultural extension activities.  CIDT, SATMACI and SODEPALM
would therefore be directly responsible for implementing their respective
components. Because of the many differences (statutes, managerial,
financial) between the three agencies, project approach would be tailored
to their particular characteristics and current level of efficiency. The
research component of the project would be implemented by the research
institutions, IDESSA and IRCC, in close collaboration with the concerned
extension agencies.
4.42      Coordination at the national level between the research and
development agencies would be ensured by a Steering Committee which would
include representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Budget, Agriculture,
Rural Development and Scientific Research. It would be in charge of the
detailed review and, where appropriate, approval of (a) the annual plans of
activities of the agencies concerned, and (b) the semi-annual progress
reports to be submitted by implementing agencies (para 4.38). The
setting-up of the Steering Committee would be a condition of effectiveness
of the loan (para 5.02 (b)). Assurances have been obtained at negotiations
that the Steering Committee would meet at least twice a year (para 5.01
(h)).
4.43      Government would oversee project implementation through the
detailed review and approval, by the technical supervisory ministries, of
the participating institutions' annual plans of operations and budgets.
The Unit within the Ministry of Budget in charge of the monitoring of
agricultural parastatals' operations would be strengthened by an additional
staff specifically in charge of (a) the planning and monitoring of the
annual operations and budgets of CDT, SATMACI, SODEPALM, IDESSA and IRCC;
(b) the supervision of project implementation; and (c) the processing of
the parastatals' statements of expenditures (SOEs) which are the basis for
the justification of their use of resources and for their financing. This
staff would be provided with a vehicle and the necessary office equipment.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this staff would be recruited
before December 31, 1986 (para 5.01 (i)).
1.   Organization of Extension Services
4.44      The proposed reorganization would build upon the systems
currently implemented by the three development agencies, through the
introduction of the main features of the Training and Visit System. 18/
The proposed organization is described in detail in Annex 4-6.
18/ The main principles of the Training and Visit System are described in
detail in: Training and Visit Extension, the World Bank; 1984.



- 41 -
(a) Extension Methodology
4.45      Field Extension Workers (FEWs) would relay a series of relatively
simple and seasonably appropriate technical messages to the farmers. This
would be achieved by assigning each FEW a compact zone (circle) containing
250-350 farms. The circle being subdivided into eight sectors which are
each visited systematically for one day every two weeks. The FEW's
remaining time would be devoted to training and debriefing. The planning
and supervision of the FEWs activities would be the responsibility of
Extension Supervisors who would each oversee 8 to 10 FEWs. Subject Matter
Specialists would provide technical backstopping of field extension staff
and organize fortnightly sessions to train field extension staff in the
technical recommendations to be transmitted to farmers during the following
two-week period. Effective extension requires a high degree of mobility to
enable field staff to meet farmers regularly. Field staff would be
provided with mopeds through salary advances or credit arrangements, as
experience shows that this to be the best way of ensuring proper
maintenance. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SATMACI's and
SODEPALM's field staff would receive an allowance for the purchase,
maintenance and operating costs of their mopeds as well as a daily
subsistence allowance when on field duty (para 5.01 (j)).
(b) Input Distribution and Credit Activities
4.46      Based on the positive experience under the Bank-financed Center-
West Project (Ln 2167-IVC, 1982), SATMACI would create a special cadre of
agents specifically in charge of input distribution and credit activities,
to be carried out mainly through farmer cooperative groups. There would be
one Input Supply Agent for about 20 GVCs in SATMACI's area. These agents
would be supervised by a Deputy Zone Chief responsible for input supply and
credit activities in the zone. The same arrangements would be adopted by
SODEPALM. These arrangements would allow SATMACI's and SODEPALM's field
extension staff to devote all their efforts to the transmission of improved
agricultural technologies: field extension agents, although playing an
important role in assessing input demand and informing farmers about input
availability, would not themselves handle any inputs or be responsible for
their distribution or sale. To ensure the necessary coordination between
extension programs and advice and input supply activities, input supply
agents and their zonal supervisors would participate in preseasonal,
monthly and fortnightly extension planning and training meetings.
Assurances were given at negotiations that this cadre of staff specialized
in Input distribution would be created within SATMACI and SODEPAIM within
the first year of project implementation (para 5.01 (k)). Assurances were
also given that SATMACI would develop the "d4p8t-vente" scheme successfully
initiated in 1984 -(para 5.01 (1)).
4.47      CIDT's current extension system is based on a close integration
of extension and input supply activities. Both functions are carried out
by front-line field extension agents. So far, the system has worked
satisfactorily, providing for a close control over farmers' use of
subsidized inputs. Recently, however, subsidies on the main inputs have
been eliminated. To reduce the cost of its field activities, CIDT is now
considering transferring gradually its input distribution function to GVCs
which have already shown a satisfactory mastery of cotton marketing.  It
already Initiated a pilot experiment in which 26 GVCs have been given



- 42 -
entire responsibility for establishing their members' seasonal (input)
credit requirements and processing their credit applications. In a second
stage, these GVCs would be given the responsibility for the inputs at
village level (management of inventories and physical distribution to GVC's
members) while CIDT would retain responsibility for bulk procurement and
delivery of these inputs to the village level godowns. In a third phase,
GVCs would be given full operational and financial responsibility for input
procurement, management and distribution, including ownership and
maintenance of the stores. It is estimated that, by the end of project
implementation, about 75% of the 290 cotton marketing GVCs would be
involved in the program and that about one-third would have reached at
least phase two. For this program to be successful, it is necessary that
GVCs undertaking credit/input distribution activities be remunerated for
these services. This would be done by transfering to these GVCs a share of
CIDT's current distribution margin proportional to the responsibilities
they would assume.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
above arrangements would be implemented according to an agreed time
schedule (para 5.01 (m)).
2.   Research and Development
4.48      There is, at present, an adequate volume of technologies (high
yielding varieties, improved cultural practices) ready for extension to
farmers. So far, their rate of adoption has been slow, because of various
constraints (land tenure, incentives, input availability) but mostly
because of ineffective extension. There is also an adequate pipeline of
research results ready to be tested under local conditions through farm
trials. The actions proposed under the project are in full agreement with
Government's policies and strategy for the strengthening of the country's
agricultural research system. They would be complementary to the reforms
and action program to be proposed under the National Agricultural Research
Project currently under preparation for possible Bank-financing (FY88S).
They would aim at strengthening research-extension linkages through (a) a
better coordination in the planning of adaptive research programs; and
(b) the joint implementation of these programs by research and extension
staff.
4.49      Strengthening of the coordination between research and extension
would be promoted through (a) the setting-up of joint extension/research
technical committees; (b) better collaboration in the implementation of
applied and adaptive research activities; and (c) the definition and
implementation of training programs organized by research for extension
staff.
(a) Technical Committees
4.50      A Technical Committee (TC) would be set up for each extension
agency. The TC, chaired by the extension agency's Director General, would
include representatives from the concerned research institutes (i.e.
SATMACI with IDESSA and IRCC). TCs would meet twice a year and provide a
formal mechanism to (a) analyze results of applied and adaptive research
programs in their respective fields; (b) review the adoption rates of



- 43 -
technical recommendations in the previous season; (c) agree on the next
year's adaptive research program and extension recommendations; (d) define
the content of training programs for extension staff to be carried out by
resear h; and (e) prepare and agree on the contractual arrangements
defining their respective operational and financial responsibilities.
(b) Applied and Adaptive Research Programs
4.51        IDESSA, IRCC, SATMACI and SODEPALM would establish adaptive
research services, to jointly carry out the research programs proposed
under the project. Applied research would seek to verify new technologies
in different agro-ecological conditions under controlled environment.
These controlled trials would be undertaken on regular research stations,
on extension agencies' POs or on farmers' fields. Applied research would
be jointly planned by research and extension agencies but responsibility
for it would rest entirely with research staff although implementation, in
particular for on-farm experiments, would be executed in cooperation with
extension staff. Trials would be designed to take into account technical
and non-technical constraints affecting farmers' decisions (labor, cash
requirements, socio-cultural practices). Particular attention would be
paid to the economic analysis of research findings. Applied research
results would be analyzed by research staff, to be reviewed by the various
TCs.
4.52      Adaptive research programs (farm trials) would be designed to
adjust general recommendations derived from applied research to different
farm situations: (a) various cropping sequences; (b) level of farmers'
skills; and (c) farmers' resources and risk situation. Farm trials would
be simple. They would be planned by research and extension together;
executed by extension agencies' specialized staff on farmers' fields under
technical supervision from regional research staff; and analysed jointly by
research and extension. In general, participating farmers would bear the
cost of the trials unless input costs or risks involved would be
substantially higher than those associated with current practices.
(c) Operational and Financial Responsibility
4.53        The medium-term applied and adaptive research programs to be
implemented under the project by the participating research and extension
agencies would be outlined in medium-term "program contracts" between the
concerned parties. 19/ These contracts would specify, in broad terms
(a) the agreed-upon themes for applied research and farm trials; (b) the
respective operational and financial responsibilities of the two parties;
and (c) the program's review and planning arrangements. Before each
agricultural season, the various TCs (para 4.50) would review the progress
achieved, agree on the detailed annual program for the forthcoming season
and on the means and financial resources necessary to carry out the
proposed programs. Annual programs and budgets, along with respective
responsibilities, would be detailed in an annual contract between the two
parties. These contracts would be submitted to the supervisory ministries
for approval each year before October 31.
19/ IRCC-SATMACI, IDESSA-CIDT, IDESSA-SODEPALM and IDESSA-SATMACI.



- 44 -
4.54      The details of (a) operational arrangements between research and
extension institutions, (b) project's component estimated costs, and (c)
proposed applied and adaptive research programs to be carried out under the
project are presented in the Project File No. A6. The investments financed
under the project components for the research inatitutions and the
extension agencies would be funded under their respective annual investment
budgets. Operating expenses of extension and research institutions to
implement the project's agreed annual adaptive research programs would be
entirely financed (through a negotiated annual contract) on the extension
agencies' annual operating budgets.
4.55       Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that (a) the three
research Technical Committees would be set-up before December 31, 1986;
(b) SATMACI, SODEPALM, IDESSA and IRCC would establish their respective
adaptive research services, adequately staffed, before January 31, 1987;
and (c) the arrangements described above for the planning, implementation
and financing of the project's research component would be adopted (para
5.01 (n)).   Approval by  Government of the four medium-term
program-contracts between extension agencies and research institutions and
their respective detailed 1987 research programs would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (para 5.02 (c)).
3.   Training
4.56      The agencies' training programs would be strengthened through
three types of training: orientation and refresher courses, in-service
training and other training for specialized and senior staff. Training
under the project would primarily aim at upgrading the technical and
communication skills of extension staff at all levels and at improving the
capacity of SMSs to train and provide technical support to front-line
staff. In-service training would essentially consist of (a) monthly
workshops for the training of SMSs by research; and (b) fortnightly
training of front-line agents by SMSs about the technical messages to be
transmitted to farmers during the following two-week period. Details of the
training programs are presented in Annex 4-6.
4. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.57      There is already a M&E unit in CIDT.  It would be strengthened by
the recruitment of an experienced agro-economist and 26 additional
enumerators. M&E units would be established in SATMACI and SODEPAIX under
the direct supervision of the Agencies' general managers. A Unit Chief
adequately qualified would plan and supervise 1&E operations.  He would be
assisted by a statistician for the processing and analysis of the data
collected. At regional level, teams of enumerators (36 for SATMACI and 12
for SODEPALM) would be supervised by a regional service chief. Details of
the proposed M&E System are presented in Project File No A8.



- 45 -
(a)  Bench-mark Studies
4.58      Funds would be provided under the project to implement bench-mark
studies in the savanna and forest zone.  CIDT's M&E unit has already
carried out such surveys and the proposed savanna study would provide
complementary information to improve the sampling and statistical base of
CIDT's on-going regular surveys. Reliable information on the forest
agro-systems on the other hand is relatively scarce. Thus a survey would
be undertaken, based on a limited number of detailed case studies, to
provide basic information on agro-climatic conditions, number of
settlements and of farmers, farming systems and farmers' level of
technology (including use of inputs), factor markets (land and labor)
constraints, and other socio-economic factors influencing agricultural
production and productivity. Information provided by the case studies would
be used to organize research and extension efforts and also set the scene
for future project evaluation surveys. Another output of the forest
bench-mark study would be a simple questionnaire to be used in a survey
that each of SODEPALM's and SATMACI's field extension agents would be
required to carry out in his circle of operation. This circle survey,
regularly updated, would allow the FEW to better organize his extension
activities. The terms of reference and estimated costs of the savanna and
forest bench-mark studies to be undertaken under the project are in the
Project File No. A8.
4.59      At negotiations, assurances were obtained that (a) the savanna
and forest zone bench-mark studies, undertaken under terms of reference and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, would be completed before June 30, 1987;
and (b) that SODEPALM's and SATMACI's field extension agents would have
completed the survey of their respective operational circles before March
31, 1988 (para 5.01 (o)).
(b) The Monitoring and Evaluation System
4.60      The Project's monitoring and evaluation system itself would be
designed to provide management with information on the effectiveness of the
extension system. The emphasis, particularly in early years, would be
placed on monitoring, e.g. the provision of regular and current information
on program progress. The M&E system would be designed to be an operational
management tool. It would, concentrate on the monitoring and evaluation of
the message delivery system and the quality of messages.
4.61      The monitoring aspect of the delivery system would provide
management with information on whether the target farmers are being
actually contacted and exposed to messages, and whether these farmers
understand and adopt the messages. The mechanism for such monitoring is
in-built within the T&V System: simple log books would be maintained by the



- 46 -
field extension agents on their day-to-day activities. Evaluation of the
delivery system would be based on the success of the extension services in
convincing the contact farmers to try the recommendations. This would be
measured by initial adoption rates.
4.62      The monitoring and evaluation of the quality of the message would
be another essential element of the proposed M&E system. The monitoring
mechanism is also built into the T&V system: at regular training sessions
feed-back information from the field would permit rapid identification of
constraints to adoption by farmers of recommendations and adjustment of the
latter to local problems. Evaluation of the message quality would be done
in two ways: (a) permanent voluntary adoption of recommendations would
indicate that a message was perceived as beneficial by farmers; and (b)
selected supervised field tests conducted jointly by research and
extension would permit the estimation of productivity increases resulting
from the adoptlon of recommendations.
4.63      In addition, farmer surveys would be carried out twice a year by
the M&E units on small samples of contact and non-contact farmers, with a
-simple questionnaire to determine whether (a) the contact farmers are
receiving visits; (b) messages are correctly transmitted and understood;
and (c) farmers are adopting the recommendations.
4.64      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) CIDT's
SATMACI's and SODEPALM's M&E units would be established and unit chiefs
with adequate qualifications would be recruited before December 31, 1986;
(b) the necessary technical assistance to carry out the proposed bench-mark
surveys would be recruited before December 31, 1986; and (c) the monitoring
and evaluation mechanisms described above would be implemented (para 5.01
(p)).
5.   Agencies' Management
(a) Improved Managerial Skills
4.65      Funds would be provided under the project to undertake a skill
gap analysis of SATMACI's and SODEPAIM's middle and higher level
management, at regional and headquarters levels. The analysis would match
the profile and requirement of the institutions' key jobs with the
currently available man-power and skills. It would produce a medium-term
staff training and redeployment plan for the two institutions to acquire
the missing skills. The analysis would also produce specific
recommendations to improve motivation, communication and efficiency at
managerial level. It is estimated that about 12 man-months of specialized
technical assistance would be necessary for SATMACI and about 6 man-months
for SODEPALM. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the necessary
technical assistance would be recruited before December 31, 1986, the
study's findings discussed with the Bank and its main recommendations
implemented (para 5.01 (q)).



- 47 -
(b)  Improved Accounting Systems
4.66      Within the context of its on-going program for the improvement of
public enterprises (PEs), Government is planning to design a standard
computerized accounting system to be adopted by all PEs. This system,
primarily intended to generate information for the budgetary and cash flow
monitoring of PEs by Government, could also be a very useful management
tool for PEs' own management purposes. Funds would be provided under the
project to finance the technical assistance necessary to (a) design the
proposed standard PEs' MIS; (b) adapt this standard system to SATMACI's and
SODEPALM's particular characteristics and information needs; and (c) set up
the system and start it up within these institutions as of January 1, 1988.
It is estimated that about ll man-months would be necessary to design and
set-up the system. 20/ The Directorate for Public Accounting of the
Ministry of Finance would be responsible for the supervision of the
component. It would be equipped with two micro-computers to test the
proposed PE system and train PEs' staff. An additional six man-months of
external assistance would be necessary to adapt the standard system to
SATMACI's and SODEPAIM's characteristics and train staff. Each institution
would be provided with a micro-computer to operate computerized accounts.
4.67      The project would also finance the improvement of CIDT's
budgetary and cost accounting system. The technical assistance necessary
to design the proposed improved MIS is estimated at about six man-months.
In addition, the project would finance three micro-computers to be
installed at selected CIDT regional directorates to initiate, on a pilot
basis, the decentralization of CIDT's accounting and budgetary management.
(c) Audits
4.68      The preparation and audit of SATMACI's and SODEPAIM's accounts
for their fiscal years 1982 to 1985 (para 3.43) would be a very long,
difficult and expensive task. Instead, the project would finance the
technical assistance (akout nine man months) necessary to produce SATMACI's
and SODEPALM's audited closing balance sheets as of June 30, 1986. Once
the opening accounts are established, they would be maintained manually by
competent staff until the computerized accounting system designed under the
project becomes fully operational (January 1, 1988). The audited closing
balance sheets would permit to determine the real financial situation of
these two institutions, the detailed list of financial claims from and
against third parties and the measures and resources necessary for their
financial rehabilitation.
20/ Terms of Reference for the study are presented in Project File No.
A1O.



- 48 -
(d) Financial Management
4.69      Under the project, SATMACI and SODEPALM would recruit a full-time
financial advisor for a period of three years to (a) participate in the
design of the proposed EPN Accounting system, its adaptation to the
institutions' specific characteristics and needs and its start-up and
operations; (b) be in charge of financial planning and budgeting;
(c) review and streamline internal financial and budgeting procedures; and
(d) train counterpart staff.
4.70      The proposed new accounting system for SODEPALM and SATMACI
should be operational as of January 1, 1988. Closing balance sheets for
these two institutions should be prepared as of June 30, 1986 and accounts
maintained manually henceforth by competent staff until the computerized
system is fully operatlonal. The detailed terms of reference for the MIS
design, the audits and the proposed technical assistance as well as their
estimated cost and implementation schedule have been discussed and agreed
with Government.
4.71      The recruitment, under terms of reference and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, of the technical assistance to (a) design
SATMACI's and SODEPALM's improved MIS; and (b) strengthen their financial
management would be a condition of Loan Effectiveness (para 5.02 (d)).
Submission to the Bank of SATMACI's and SODEPALM's audited closing balance
sheets as of June 30, 1986 and of Government's detailed schedule to meet
its financial obligations in settling SATMACI's and SODEPAIM's overdue
accounts would also be conditions of loan effectiveness (para 5.02 (e) and
(f)). At negotiations, assurances were obtained that government would
carry-out SATMACI's and SODEPALM's financial rehabilitation in accordance
with the agreed schedule (para 5.01 (r)). In addition, assurances were also
obtained that CIDT would recruit, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, the technical assistance necessary to design and set-up its
improved MIS before December 31, 1986 (para 5.01 (s)).
6.   Current Status of Project Preparation
4.72      Following the successful introduction, under the pilot extension
project, of T&V's main features in test zones of the three development
agencies' operational areas, full-size project implementation started in
early 1986: all management and front-line extension staff have completed
intensive training in T&V methodology; SATMACI's and SODEPALM's SMSs have
been selected from existing staff through appropriate screening procedures
and have completed a one-month refresher training course with research
institutions; front-line agents are organizing farmers into contact groups;
technical messages to be extended during the forthcoming season have been
jointly selected by extension and research institutions and training
programs are being prepared.



- 49 -
E.   Benefits and Risks
1.   Benefits
4.73      The principal beneficiaries of the project would be a large
proportion of total Ivorian farm households. It is expected that by the
fourth year of project implementation about 50% of total farm families
would directly benefit from improved extension advice (350,000 farm
families or about 3.0 million persons). In 1983, rural per capita income
was about US$320 or 44Z of the country's average per capita GNP (US$720).
The project would therefore directly benefit the poorer half of Cote
d'Ivoire's population and reduce the imbalance between urban and rural
incomes.
(a) Government's Cash Flow
4.74      Government's project-related cash flow, over a period of 20
years, is presented in Annex 4-7. Total incremental project cost over the
development period would be CFAF 15.8 billion (US$45.2 million) net of
taxes and duties which corresponds to about CPAP 3,400 (US$9.8) per ha of
cropped land. 20/ Annual incremental costs after the project development
period would be about CFAF 4.5 billion (US$12.8 million) net of taxes
(CFAF 975 or US$2.8 per ha of cropped land) and would be met by the
Government's recurrent budget. However, against these incremental costs,
the project would generate substantial incremental Government revenues.
Although Government's objectives call for a gradual decrease in the
taxation of agricultural produce, fiscal revenues from taxes on
project-induced incremental coffee and cocoa production alone are expected
to reach CFA 10.9 billion (US$31.2 million) by 1993. As a result, starting
in the second year of project implementation, Government's project related
net cash-flow would consistently show a substantial surplus, ensuring the
sustainability of the proposed increased extension efforts.
(b) Economic Costs and Benefits
4.75      Attributing a precise level of benefits to an extension project
is difficult. The main complicating factor is the difficulty in
determining what proportion of benefits are due to increased extension
efforts alone and what are due to other factors such as price policies, the
availability and cost of inputs, credit as well as climatic conditions. In
practice, the benefits derive from a combination of these factors, with
extension playing a catalytic role. It is also difficult to project
adoption rates of recommended practices, in particular when the project
spreads over the entire country, comprising regions having different
resource constraints and potentials, as well as farmers at different levels
of technological development.
20/ Assuming 4.6 million ha of crop land (perennial and annual crops) and
a total of about 700,000 farm families.



-50-
2.   Risks
4.82      There is little doubt that, if the project is implemented as
proposed, the pay-offs would be substantial in terms of induced growth in
agricultural productivity and production. The main factors which could
impede satisfactory project execution would be (a) inadequate budgetary
support; (b) ineffective management; and (c) lower than expected adoption
rates. These elements are discussed below:
(a) Inadequate Budgetary Support
4.83      It is essential that the extension agencies receive, in a timely
manner, budgetary allocations commensurate with their annual objectives.
Underfunding in key areas (e.g. vehicle operating costs), as well as delays
in releasing approved budgets, would undermine the agencies' effectiveness.
Government has given assurances under SAL III that funding of agricultural
parastatals would be adequate and timely. Assurances to the same effect
have been obtained at negotiations for the project's later years by
devising an appropriate funding mechanism for these agencies. In addition,
the project would introduce complementary measures to alleviate the
problem: (i) the improved planning and budgeting system set up in SATMACI
and SODEPALM would permit better resource planning and improved
cost-effectiveness within the agencies; (ii) improved financial management
would allow SATMACI and SODEPALM to regularly submit statements of
expenditures to the treasury for the release of budgetarv funds; (iii) the
proposed financing of a declining share of the project's total operating
costs over project life would provide Government with financial support in
the first implementation years, while gradually shifting operating cost
financing to Government budget when incremental benefits and Government
revenues start to accrue. Careful and frequent supervisions from the Bank
would, however, be necessary to guard against the risk of the agencies not
having sufficient and timely resources to implement the project
satisfactorily.
(b) Ineffective Management
4.84      The project would provide SATMACI's and SODEPAIM's higher
management with the tools to implement agreed upon programs efficiently.
The T&V system constitutes an effective mechanism to plan and monitor the
activities of field agents, and to improve their skills through regular
training. Ineffective agents would be easily identified and corrective
measures taken.  The new MIS introduced under the project would also allow
managers to better plan and monitor the agencies' operations. Finally,
adequate and timelv financing of approved budgets would remove one of the
major bottlenecks in operations. Management performance should therefore



- 51 -
Improve. Progress on that front would be closely monitored and corrective
measures taken, if necessary.
(c) Low Adoption Rates
4.85      Beside factors linked to extension agencies operations, lower
than anticipated adoptior. rates could result from an inadequate Government
price and incentive policy for agricultural production or from a lack of
adequate technologies for extension to farmers.  The first issue is being
tackled under SAL III and Government is committed to provide agricultural
producers with a satisfactory price and incentive environment. In the
short-term, there would not be a lack of adequate technologies to transmit
to farmers. There are a number of research findings which are not yet
widely adopted and can serve as input to the extension efforts during the
project. Major yield increases can be achieved through the adoption of
simple cultural methods, well suited to farmers' needs and constraints:
they do not require the purchase of large amounts of modern inputs and do
not constitute a problem with regard to labor availability. To reduce the
risk of a low rate of technology generation lowering anticipated project
benefits in the longer term, the project would support programs of adaptive
research for both cash and food crops, while a National Research Pr-oject
(FY88S) would further strengthen the Ivorian research system. With the
measures introduced under SAL III and the willingness of farmers to take
advantage of better extension services, as illustrated by their positive
response under the pilot extension project, the risk of adoption rates
falling below the threshold needed to achieve a 15% ERR is therefore low.
V. ASSURANCES AND RECOMNENDATIONS
5.01      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) The procurement of all goods and services to be financed under
the project and the review of the related procurement documents
would be done in accordance with Bank guidelines (para 4.32).
(b) IDESSA and IRCC would maintain separate accounts for project
related activities (para 4.35).
(c) The project's special account with the Borrower's Debt
Stabilization Fund (CAA) would operate under procedures
acceptable to the Bank (para 4.36).
(d) The Government would provide the budgetary resources necessary to
fully finance the project's counterpart funds and the balance of
the implementing extension agencies' approved annual budgets
through: (i) a first tranche, representing four months of their
approved budget, and available as of January 31 at the latest;
(ii) successive tranches thereafter, upon submission by the
agencies of SOEs providing satisfactory evidence for the use of
resources put at their disposal (para 4.37).



- 52 -
(f)  The implementing agencies would communicate to the Bank before
the start of each fiscal year: (a) their respective annual
program of operations (PAA); and (b) their detailed training,
adaptive research and M & E programs (para 4.38).
(g)  Government, the implementing agencies and the Bank would
undertake a mid-term implementation review before June 30, 1988
(para 4.39).
(h)  The implementing agencies would (i) maintain appropriate recerda
and accounts; (ii) have their accounts, year-end financial
statements and statements of expenditures audited by independant
auditors; and (iii) submit audited accounts and audit reports to
the Bank not later than six months after the end of their
financial year (para 4.40)
(i) The project Steering Committee would meet at least twice a year
(para 4.42).
(j) The Ministry of Finance would recruit the staff to strengthen its
concerned unit before December 31, 1986 (para 4.43).
(k) SATMACI's and SODEPALM's field staff would receive an allowance
for the purchase, maintenance and operating costs of their mopeds
as well as a daily subsistence allowance when on field duty (para
4.45).
(1) SATMACI and SODEPALM would establish a cadre of staff specialized
in input supply and credit activities within the first year of
project implementation (para 4.46).
(m) SATMACI would develop the "dgpo6t-vente" scheme successfully
initiated in 1984 (para 4.46).
(n) CIDT would gradually divest itself from its current Input
supply/credit activities in favor of GVCs according to an agreed
time schedule (para 4.47).
(o) (i) the three research Technical Committees would be set-up
before December 31, 1986; (ii) SATMACI, SODEPALM, IDESSA and IRCC
would establish their respective adaptive research services,
adequately staffed, before January 31, 1987; and (iii) the agreed
arrangements for the planning, implementation and financing of
project's research activities would be implemented (para 4.55).
(p) The savanna and forest zones bench-mark studies would be
undertaken under terms of reference and conditions acceptable to
the Bank and completed before June 30, 1987; and SATMACI's and
SODEPALM's field extension agents would have completed the
initial survey of their individual circle of operations before
March 31, 1988 (para 4.59).
(q) CIDT's, SATMACI's and SODEPALM's M&E units would be established
with competent staff before December 31, 1986; the necessary



- 53 -
technical assistance to carry out the proposed bench-mark surveys
would be recruited before December 31, 1986; and the agreed-upon
M&E mechanism would be implemented (para 4.64).
(r)  SATMACI and SOL'EPALM would recruit, before December 31, 1986, the
technical assistance necessary to carry out the technical and
managerial skill gap analysis, discuss the analysis' findings
with the Bank and implement its main recommendations (para 4.65).
(a) Government would carry-out SATMACI's and SODEPALM's financial
rehabilitation in accordance to the agreed schedule (para 4.71).
(t) CIDT would recruit the technical assistance to design and set-up
its new MIS before December 31, 1986 under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.71).
5.02      Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be that:
(u) The Subsidiary Grant Agreements between the Government and CIDT,
SATMACI, SODEPALM, IDESSA and IRCC have been signed (para 4.30);
(v) The project's Steering Committee has been established (para
4.42);
(w) The Government has approved the four medium-term program
contracts between extension agencies and research institutions
and their respective detailed applied adaptive research programs
for the 1987 season (para 4.55);
(d) The technical assistance to (i) design and set-up SATMACI's and
SODEPALM's improved MIS and (ii) strengthen their financial
management has been recruited (para 4.71);
(x) The audited closing balance sheets of SATMACI and SODEPALM as of
June 30, 1986 have been submitted to the Bank (para 4.71);
(y) Government's detailed schedule to meet its financial obligations
in settling SATMACI's and SODEPALM's overdue accounts been
submitted to the Bank (para 4.71).
5.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for a loan of US$34.0 million to the Government of the Republic of C8te
d'Ivoire on standard Bank terms.
WAPAA
October 1986



- 54 -
Annex 3-1
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SAVANNA AND FOREST REGIONS a
Parameter                           Savanna             Forest
Total Land Area                     180,000 km2          140,000 km2
Total Population (1980)             2.6 million         5.7 million
Agricultural Population             2.0 million         3.0 million
Farming Families (1983)             290,000             390,000
Agricultural Population Density    11 Persons/km2       29 Persons/km2
Average Family Size                 6.9                 6.5
of which Active Labor Equivalents  3.3                  2.9
Average Farm Size                   3.6 hectares        6.0 hectares
of which Perennial Crops            -                   4.2 Hectares
Growth of Agricultural Population  Zero to 0.5%         3.0X
Rainfall                            1200-1700 mm p.a.;  1400-2500 mm p.a.;
monomodal to North, longer wet season;
bimodal to South;   bimodal in most
pronounced dry      areas.
season.
Dominant Cash Crops                 Cotton              Cocoa, Coffee
Dominant Food Crops                 Maize, Yams, Rice   Yams, Plantains,
Taro, Rice, Maize
Main Institutions                   CIDT                SATMACI/SODEPALM/
PALMINDUSTRIE/SAPH
Incomes                            Low Incomes          Higher Incomes
a/ Several inconsistencies in available demographic and farm area data
are currently being analyzed.
WAPAA
October 1986



COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJEC
CIDT: ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
11, PI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ tg   W,    33    ti
April18 6 
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .I  I    ,,
l  I  . l . I , 1,ON
April 198



COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SATMACI: ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
WAPAA
April 1986



COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SODEPALM: ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
X ~~~-I]-  -__.____  
f10 I                         ef
WAPAA
April 1986



-58 -              Annex 3-5
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
THE AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PILOT PROJECT
Background
1.        In mid-1984, the Bank approached the Ivorian Government to
suggest ways and means for improving the extension services of the
country's three main development agencies (CIDT, SATMACI, and SODEPALM).
The authorities which were concerned with the agencies rather poor
performance so far in dealing with fooderops, welcomed the idea. In
September 1984, the Government, with assistance from RMWA, initiated an
Agricultural Extension Pilot Project. The Bank had at that time set up a
special Extension Unit within RMWA, with two staff devoting full-time to
Extension.
2.        A preliminary survey based on extensive field trips revealed
that extension in Republic of Cote d'Ivoire was generally well organized,
technical recommendations were brought to farmers each season and some
links with Research did exist (mainly between CIDT and IRCT, the cotton
research institution, and to a much lesser extent between SATMACI and IRCC
the coffee and cocoa institution) as well as some training of extension
personnel following their recruitment. The purpose of the Pilot Project
was thus to test the farmers and the extension staff reaction to suggested
improvements inspired mostly from the Training and Visit (T & V) system.
This was the more easy as a general consensus existed within the above
agencies as to the lead role of a technical and professional extension
service based on better organization, regular and continuous training and
stronger links with research. While awaiting the financing to
materialize, the RMWA Extension Unit together with two consultants
specialized in T & V methods had by February 1985, held orientation
courses for more than 800 extension staff from the three agencies.
3.        Whereas, the initial idea had been for the three agencies to try
a few specific actions within a limited number of test zones, CIDT
management did not hesitate to adapt some improvements throughout its
whole area of jurisdiction (58% of the country). These changes mainly
included (i) the adoption of a systematic scheduled pattern of work for
extension agents based on a fortnightly schedule of visit to farmers and
(if) the start of an intensive, regular and continuous training program of
all extension staff. To the above modifications, both SATMACI and
SODEPALM management added (iii) the appointment through promotion of
Special Matter Specialists; and (iv) improved links with Research (IRCC
and IDESSA). This was against a background whereby extension staff was



- 59 -
Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 5
routinely involved in too many non-extension activities, faced with
excessive reporting and statistical workload, lacked sufficient research-
generated technology, especially for foodcrops, and experienced poor
feedback from field to research. Other constraints included
transportation shortages and restrictions, inadequate technical
supervision and insufficient back-up from specialists. Finally, the
realignment in early 1985 of the salaries of most extension staff with
those of the Civil Servants (with actual cuts of over 50X) resulted in
decreasing motivation and poor morale.
Project's Objectives
4.        The Pilot Project sought to determine if, in a relatively short
period of time (about ten months) it would be possible to get the
commitment of staff from all levels involved in agricultural extension
within CIDT, SATMACI and SODEPALM to a rather new approach to extension.
It also sought to test to what degree researchers would cooperate with the
extension service.
5.        Technically, the pilot project focussed initially on maize and
rice which, apart from tubers, are the country's main staples. Other
crops included cocoa and coffee, the two leading export crops, and cotton.
Extension messages for fooderops included (i) timely planting,
(ii) optimum per ha plant population of up to 50 to 55,000 compared to
the traditional 30,000 plants for maize, (iii) planting in rows and at
predetermined spacings - depending on types of soils and on rainfall,
(iv) timely weedings, (v) improved pest control, and (vi) the use of split
applications of fertilizers. The above recommendations aimed at making
best use of existing resources thus assuring that feztilizer when used was
applied to an optimum population and at the most appropriate time.
Whenever possible, extension agents tried to convince farmers to apply the
new recommendations on a small portion of their fields to minimize risk
and to allow for a comparison with traditional farming practices. As for
cocoa and coffee, the technical messages mostly aimed at ensuring at least
three proper and timely weeding", compared to a single weeding, together
with regular pruning.
Project's Results
6.        Although the Pilot Project was initiated with little
pre-preparation and well into the cropping season (CIDT, May 1985), some
common results were undoubtfully achieved within the three development
agencies on the following aspects:
(a) Orgnization: There is a general consensus that the extension
agent's time bound work program which had been adopted
throughout the CIDT area of jurisdiction and in both the SATMACI
and SODEPALM test zones, did allow for better control and
support of frontline staff by their respective supervisors.
Also, extension workers tended to visit groups of farmers
instead of individuals during four-day cycles every other week,
thus saving on time and transportation. Most importantly of



- 60 -
Annex 3-5
Page 3 of 5
all, farmers, in their majority. prefered the new schedule of
visits whereby they were assured of the regular passage of
extension staff the same day, each fortnight. In fact, the new
approach to extension resulted in modifying in less than ten
months, the working habits of some 1,800 extension agents
dealing vith about 200,000 farmers 1I. It also highlighted some
aberration as to the agencies' level of staffing and prompted
the respective managements to redistribute staff more
rationally. Another encouraging feature consisted of the
implementation of numerous small plots (over 1,000, mainly in
the SATMACI and SODEPALM test zones) by those convinced farmers
who adopted simple cultural practices taught to them by the
extension staff. It is estimated that each extension agent had
an average six to eight such plots of between 0.1 to 0.2 ha in
size. The agencies' management believe that many more farmers
will take up the improved practices in the next season. Besides
the time bound work program for the extension personnel, the
other main suggestion made by the Bank was for the agencies to
designate and/or recruit Subject Hatter Specialists (SMS). The
latter were to play a key role in both ensuring the necessary
links with Research and providing training to extension staff.
In practice, CIDT has located a few such potential specialists
(chefs de section) among its staff. In fact, they will be drawn
mostly from existing "Development and Applied Research"
(Recherche-Developpement) personnel. Both SATHACI and SODEPALX
have promoted seven and four such specialists respectively. The
latter are currently covering annual and perennial crops, plant
protection and cooperatives.
(b) Training. The pilot effort clearly revealed that field staff's
technical and communication skills were not adequate and that
the training of extension staff was a top priority. Thus the
basic principle of bi-monthly training sessions for extension
agents and of monthly workshops for SMS was easily adopted by
all three development organizations. Agency specific training
programs were established in January 1985, following the
selection together with Research of a few main techlical
recommendations at the beginning of the cropping season.
Bi-monthly training sessions became regular at all agencies,
about June 1985. By contrast, the monthly workshops are not yet
a common practice as the majority of SMS still remain to be
selected. Also, Research currently lacks the human resources to
participate to the workshops as would be required.-
(c) Links with Research. There has always been a tradition of close
links between CIDT and IRCT for cotton. As to foodcrops, CIDT
and IDESSA have had rather satisfactory relations as neighbours
1/ Out of an estimated 700,000 farm families in the country of which about
250,000 are somehow reached by the current extension services.



- 61 -
Annex 3-5
Page 4 of 5
and also because CIDT, financially, supports some of the
Institute's interventions. A few changes are currently
noticeable between SATMACI and IRCC on coffee-cocoa on one hand,
and between SATMACI and SODEPALM and IDESSA for foodcrops, on
the other hand. IRCC specially recruited two agronomists to
closely follow up on both the implementation of joint trials and
on the establishment of nurseries. Both SATMACI and SODEPALM
have prepared with IDESSA a program of mutual visits. The
program also includes the participation of researchers in the
training of extension staff for the season ahead. These
measures, when Implemented on a regular basis, should lead to
more tangible results in the coming year. For the time being
there are enough research data and experience available to still
permit the generation of useful extension messages. However, in
the medium to long term there will be a need to strengthen
research to meet the ever increasing Aemand from the farmers and
extension. As a matter of fact, there is already growing
pressure on research to focus more specifically on better
adapted varieties of maize, sorghum and groundnuts, crop
associations and rotations, storage and conversation of tubers.
7.        Production and Yields.  Although the production and yields of
several hundred small demonstration plots have been recorded and are
currently being analyzed, it would be unreasonable to base the success or
failure of the pilot project on results obtained during such a short
period - one season. One can nevertheless mention that overall,
encouraging results have been observed with increases in maize when
compared to the farmers' traditional fields. More important, however, to
monitor are the rates of adoption by farmers of specific production
recommendations. This is still being, investigated since it should involve
several cropping seasons. The actua8 impact of the recommendations taught
to farmers should rather be based on repeated adoption rates which
indicate whether the initial adaptors have perceived a significant gain to
themselves making it worth continuing with the new practices. In fact, a
direct causal link between extension and production increases cannot be
shown because of the effects of various intervening factors including
commodities and input prices, credit availability and rainfall variations
among others.
Lessons Learnt
8.        During a four-day visit in July 1985, a team including
representatives of CIDT, SATMACI and SODEPALM as well as RMWA staff toured
a few test sites within each agency's area of responsibility. This was
the first time ever that staff from the above organizations were together
in the field. In addition, such a gathering did allow a most fruitful
exchange of experience and ideas. Also, in October 1985, CIDT conducted a
major internal evaluation of its activities within the pilot project. The
main positive points that emerged from the above visit and internal
reviews included:



- 62 -
Annex 3-5
Page 5 of 5
(i) The supervisors felt they could better control and
support their extension agents in the field.
(ii) The extension workers welcomed the fixed program
of visits, so did farmers.
(ili) Regular and continuous training was indispensable to
improve the technical know-how of extension staff at
all levels.
(iv) Technical needs of the extension agents were better
perceived.
(v)  The implementation and follow-up of field trials was
easier.
(vi)  There seemed to be a better feedback from the field
to both extension and research.
(vii) Stronger links with Research were essential and,
gradually improving.
The main difficulties included: (a) farmers who would not attend the
extension agents meetings regularly because of religious customs, lack of
interest for some recommendations, distance, varying market days,
organization of traditional work groups, and some farmers having scattered
fields; (b) training was aimed exclusively at farmers when it were often
women, children and labor who would actually carry many field activities;
and (c) the smooth implementation of the pilot project was seriously
hampered by administrative difficulties including: (i) delays in
localizing and obtaining counterpart funds; (ii) lengthy and bureaucratic
procedures as to procurement (it took five months between the preparing of
tender documents and the actual supply of locally purchased items); and
(iii) continuous and abnormal delays on the part of the agencies in
preparing and submitting their claims for reimbursement. This has had
adverse effects during the past months on both SATMACI and SODEPALI which
were continuously short of funds.
WAPAA
October 1986



REPIILIC OF COTE D'IVOTRE                                                                 Annex 4-1
Page I of 2
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
INCREMENTAL STAFFINC REQUIREMENTS a/
CIDT                           SAT7tACI                        SODEPALM                           IDESSA                         IRCC
1985       1989        Incre-    1985        1989       Inere-   1985        1989      Incre-       1985      1989      Incre-   1965       1989      Incre-
mental                           mental                         mental                          mental                        mental
Extenaion
Field Extenason Workera        1450       1450            -       1000       1150        150       210        150        b/                        -              -         -
Field Supervisors                 -        115          ISi        164        115          -        21         35        9I         -         -         -         -         -         -
Input Managaient Officers        56         56            -         43        160        117         -         41        41         -         -         -         -         -
Subject Hatter Spectalist        26         37           11          -         66         66         -         21        21
Deputy Zone Chtefs                -          -            -          8         22         14               -         -
Reaearch
Service Chiefa                    1           1 s                    _          l          I                    I         I         -         I         I I  I
leoearchersftegional Managers  4             4            -          -          6          6         -          -         -         -         4         4         -         6         6
PO/station  Managers             20         20            -          2          7          5         -          4         4         1        12         9         -
Pnnnerators                      31         41           10          4         14         10                    a         8         -        12        12         -         -         -
training
Service Chiefs/Deput1es            3          3           -          -          I          1         1          ?         I
Regional Officers                13          11                                 6          5         1          4         3
Mobile Vider Operatorm             8          8                      -          4          4         -          2         2
'lnitorIng & Evaltatton Unit
Service Chief                     -           I           I          -          I          I         -          I         I
Ststi5ticiAi                      -           -           -          -          1          I         _          _         _         _         _         _         _         _
Fnumerators                                 29           29          -         35         35  c/    -          14        14
Accountintg  finance
Financial Director                 -          -           -          -          I          I         _          I         I
Regional Financial Managers    1              4           3          6          6                    -          4         4-                            - 
a1  Detailed projections are presented in Working Papers 1,2,3.6,8 and 10
R/  The projected number of FEWs and PSa would be the same with and without project.
1I Regional ManaRer and 6 Enumerators for each of SATMACI's regions except that covered by the Rank-financed Crnter-Weat lDevelopment Project (Loan 2167-RCT)



- 64 -
Annex 4-1
Page 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Civil Works, Vehicles and Equipment to be financed under the Project
CIDT SATMACI SODEPALM IDESSA IRCC MOF TOTAL
Vehicles
Cars (7CV)                        15     8       23       22     8   1   77
Cars (5CV)                         -    98       57        -     -   -  155
Cars-Video                         8     4        2       -      -   -   14
Bus                                -     I        1        -     -   -    2
Truck                              -     -        -        1     1  -    2
Motorcycles                        -   244        -       22     -   -  266
Mopeds                             -   664       43        -     -   -  707
Civil Works
Offices                            -     -        -        1     1  -    2
Experimentation Sites              -     5        4        -     -   -    9
Research Stations (Renovation)    -      -        -        I     1  -    2
Sub-Research Stations (new)        -     -        -        3     -   -    3
Training Centers (Renovation)    55      1        2        -     _   _   58
Training Centers (new)             -     5       10        -     _   _   15
Equipment I/
Training Equipment and Material   X      X        X        -     -   -    X
Computers                          7     2        2       -      -   -   11
Office equipment                   X     X        X       X      X   X    X
Research (& Agricultural) Equip.  X      X        X       X      X   -    X
1/ The detailed description of equipment and material for training,
research, office and Monitoring and Evaluation is given in the detailed
cost tables, Project File n° A9
WAPAA
October 1986



- 65 -
Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Responsibility for the recruitment of the various categories of
technical assistance would be as follows:
(a) The Ministry of Finance would be responsible for the recruitment
of the assistance necessary for the design of the proposed Public
Enterprises' standard accounting system and its adaptation to
SATMACI's and SODEPALM's specific needs, as well as for these
institutions' proposed initial audits.
(b) MRS would be responsible for the recruitment of the proposed
technical assistance to IDESSA and IRCC.
(c)  MDR would be responsible for the recruitment of (1) the long-term
assistance to SATMACI's and SODEPALM's financial and accounting
management; (ii) the assistance necessary for undertaking the
proposed bench-mark study of forest zone's socio-economic
characteristics; and (fii) the assistance for SATMACI's and
SODEPALM's management skill gap analysis..
(d) CIDT would be responsible for the recruitment of the assistance
for the design of an improved MIS and the bench-mark study in the
savanna zone. 1/
The terms of reference for these various categories of technical
assistance have been prepared and are presented in Project Files No. A6, A8
and AIO.
WAPAA
October 1986
1/ This study may also be carried out by CIDT on force account.



- 66 -
RPlUIC OF aQrE D'IIE               hume  4-2
P8ae 2 of 2
Tedmica Awsistmce !PM#MM!et
(man-entbs)
Fizwv~ia1                    C:=C    SAMGI SOWAM   IDFS&         U        MW  FTAL
Desip of EPE Acc t1g System                                                  5       5
Preparation of OprdDg
Bal      eets                    -       6        3        -        -       -        9
Settiz  up of liuproved
)[S                              6        3       3        -        -        -       12
Finacl Directors                 -      36       36        -        -       -       72
SLotal                        6       45       2        -        -        5      98
Skill Gap AnalysI     -       12       6        -        -        -       18
Tedmical
Cdef of Adaptive ReParch
units                            -       -        -       36       36       -       72
Odter  Y_d                       -       -        -        -       72       -       72
start-upof Pesearch Uits         -       -        -        1        -       -        1
Start-up ofd   E Uits            -        1       1        -        -       -        2
B; kfi-r Studis                 10       12       -        -        -       -       22
Subtotal                      10       13       1       37    '108               169
TUOAL                         16       70      49       37      108        5     285
WPAA
0tober 1986



I                                                              COUTS PROJET                                                                      foreign     t of I
s                                            ------------- -I--  ---- ---- --- - --- ------------ ----------------------  -  ----------- as2a f              Bease
1986     1987       88     1989  TOTAL      LOCAL  FOREIOI    TOTAL    LOCAL FOREtGN    TOTAL    Total    Cost I
:                                            ------------------fU  000)-----------A          -IFCFA sillion-------  -(US   ittiel-          l ---    ---
s SAISATION ENCAWtEllENT            1112801  1938035  206b182  2165621  722644      6010     1265    7283      17.2       3.6    20.9       17      44.4
:                                                                                                                                                                 I
RECNERCHE & DEVEL0PP EENT           1620664  894119   44219   572279  3751291       2419     1332     3751      6.9      3.9     10.7       36     22.0 s
s                                                                                                                                                                 2
FORNATION                            915871   74403   529529   538738  2729941      1928      S01     2729      5.2      2.6      7,9       33      16.6
s                                                                                                                                                                  :
SUIVI & EVALUATION                   393693   351233   329433   361653  1436012     1134      302     1436      3.2      0.9      4.1       21      8.7
FINANCES & KSSOURCES HUNAINES         244508   154006   110506    44506   553526      228      326      554      0.7      0.9       1.6      59       3.4 t
INSETICICES  COD                          0    54400   150   454400   665600          266      399      466      0.S      1.1      1.9       60      4.1 
2   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                  ~-------    ------              ---   -      -  - ------------                  - -------- -        ~-
TOTAL COUTS DE BASE                  4287543  4136595  3856669  4137197 16419004    11893     4525    16418       34       13       47       29    100.0:
leprevus Physiqses                   266476   240959  217701   249442   974578        6        283      975      2.0      0.8      2.0       29      5.9
I        Imprevus Financiers                   149275   410159  663731  1959129  30904        2424      667     3091      6.9      1.9      8.8       22      18.8 a
*                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~-------------------------- -------------- ---------- -------   -----2
s IOIAL CWTS                         4703295  4795713  473B100 6246468 20483575    15009      5475    20484     42.9      15.6    58.5       27    124.8 s 
*                              2     ~~~~~~~~~~- ---   --------a------------
TOTAL ASSIST. TECHNIIIUE              317500   317500   244000   113000  992000
TOTAL INVEStISSEIIERTS            s 2384360   766260   159530    70690  3381040                                                                           s
TOTAL FONCIXONNERENII             2 1585683 3052835  3453139  3953307 12044944 s                                                                          t
2        TOTAL CWOTS DE BASE               2 4287543  4136595  3956669  4137197 16418004 t                                                                         2
I        lsprevus Physiques                :  266476   240959   217701   249442  97457B i                                                                          I                         I
lqprevus Fioanciers     s             149275   418159   663731  1859129  3090994 s s
- ---------- -- 
s        TOTAL COUTS                       a 4703295  4795713  4738100  6246468 20483575 s
-2  -------------   ---    -        ------- - t       - - -  -   - -   --    - - -   -  -   -- -    -    -  -  -  -   -  - -    - -- -     --    -----    2



t6-Jun-h                                                                                                16-Ju86
-- -- -- -- - ------ - -- -- --        - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- --_-- ---__-__----__-- -- -         _ 
COUTS CI1T  (FCf;S   OSI                                                            Foreign      I of
t                                                                ------------------------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------  ---  -- -   as I off   else
:                                                 1896     1819      1998    ISfi   TOTAL      LOCAL  FORE1611   TOTAL    Loc      O FOEICI    TOtAL    total    Cost
:-----------F-------FCFA 000-----------------    -IFCFA  illil ---------   -US$ sillin--l--- -         -----      ----
:         ORAIIISATION EKCADREHENT              204899   306494   392654   369154  1263191      1047       216     1265      3.0      0.6       3.6      1      42.t
I
s         RECHERDIE I DEVELOPPENENI              42780    61560    31560    31560   167460       159        to      167      0.5      0.0       0.5        6      5.7           I
FORATION                              349050   199425   149050   149050   B46575       566       291      847      1.6      0.9       2.4       33     29.7
s                                                                                                                                                                               t
:         SJUIVI & EVALUATION                   172899   139215   139215   139215   590534       482       IO0      591      1.4       0.3      1.7      1I       20.0
SYSTENE GESTION FINANCIERE              51000        0    30000         0    91000       35        46       81      0.1      0.1       0.2       51      2.7
TOTAL COUTS D  BASE                    820618   706684   732479   698979  2949760      2287       661     2949      6.5       1.9      8.4       22    100.0
: [prevus Physiques                     51256    3591    37327    34327   156490        119       39       156      0.3      0.1       0.4       25      5.3
: wrevus Financiers                     276B5    70115   125107   317820   540727       435       206      541      1.2      0.3       1.5       20     18.3
-- -     - - - - - - -      - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -I - -     ------
TOTAL COUTS                            899559  890380   8"112  1041226  3645978        2940       806     3646      3l.       2.3     10.4       22    123.6
s                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                  s
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 24                                                                                                    MT
TOTAL ASSISTANCE TECHNIIIUE             71500    12000    12000    12000   107500 1
:                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
TOTAL INVESTISSEtENTS                  346300    91000    73500    30000   540800 1
TOtAL FOECTIONNEHENT                   4028168  60364   64697t   646979  2300460 1
TOTAL COUTS BE BASE                    920618   706684   732479   698979  2949760 I
l:prevus Physiques                      51256    33591    37327    34327   156490 t
: Iprevus Fneanciers                    27695    70115   125107   317520   540727 1                                                                                        cI
:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~--  -----------------------------------
TOTAL COUITS                           9S9559   810380   994912  1041126  3645978 I                                                                                         o  .
---------_    _   _____   _    ________  ___    __  _ ------  .---------__ ----__------------ - -- ---- - --- -- --- --- --
lt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CWTS SA111CI                                                                           Foreip         oft 
a                                              -----------------------------------------------------------------as2of   asbse 
1986     1997    I188       1m     TOTAL      LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL    LOCAL  FORE16N    TOTAL    Total         Cost I
s                                              --------------- (FCFA  OOO-----------    -(FCFA  -ilial---                       (US$ dillion      --------            -    :
ORBANISATION ENCADRErENT               606906  1226837  1265064  1343203  4442069        3715       727     4442      10.6      2.1      12.7       16      55.5 e
INSECTICIDES CACAO                          0    54400   15600   454400   665600          266      399       666      0.8       1.1       1.9       60       8.3
RECHERCHE & PEVELOPPEHENT              212720   301301   14401   14440    802823          558      245       603       1.6      0.7       2.3       30      10.0 1
s         FORHATION                              374080   421543   271149   281399  1348169         915       433     1348       2.6       1.2      3.9        32     16.8:
s         SUIYI & EVALUATION                      144296   134012   122212   $54432   554952        464        91      555       1.3      0.3       1.6        16      6.9
FINANCES & RESSOURCES HIWAINES           64500    78000    36000    18000   196500          72       124      197       0.2      0.4       0.6       63       2.5 :
TOTAL COUTS BE BASE                    1402582  2216092  1995625  2395834  801033         5991     2019      8010        17        6        23       25    100.0 :
*         ~lprevus Physiques                      77767   126558   106643   140200   451189         299       152      451       0.9      0.4       1.3        51      3.7 s
laprevus Financiers                      47241   223824   341737   886688  1501490        1143      358      1501      3.3       1.0       4.3       24      t8.1t
TOTAL COUTS                            1527590  2566473  2444025  3424723  9962812        7433     2530    "963        21.2      7.2      28.5       25    124.4 :
I DBot Frais de Depleceaent                                                  1164091
:        ASSISTANCE TECHINIIUE               :    89000    780OO     36000    18000   221000 t
TOTAL INVESTISSEIIENTS              s   652300   533500    46000       M800  1240600 1
:        TOTAL FOlCTIO lMET                      661282  1604592  1913625  2369034  6548533 S
TOTAL COWTS D£ BASE                 s  1402582  2216092  1995625  2395834  8010133 1
leprenus Physiques                       7 7761   12655S   166S   140200   451189 1
a        isprevus Financiers                 s    47241   223024   341737   888688  1501490 t
s                                            s                                                 t---- ---
:        TOTAL COUTS                         t  1527590  2566473  2444025  3424723  "962812 I
a                     a 2~C#2:~:Z2;2Z2:22EC2
tI                                                                                      OIw   s
a- 0,
a-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0t



11-Jn86                                                                                        tl-Jun-86
----  -    ,-  - -----_-   ----__ ___ __ ____ __ ----_ -  -_ -----    ___ ----__ ----
ICOUS S AL                                                                           Foreign     t4f I
5                                             ----------------------------------_---___--___-_.______                                                  aiZ- asl t o    Ba 
I                 i98 M 9  1989   TOTAL      LOA   FOREIN    TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL    Total          Cost t
:                           --------------(fCf ~~~~~~~~~000- -----             -IfCfb~illion     ---    -1USS sillicm1- ----                     --|
s         OR6^1UNISATION ENADREPENT             300922   404714   41844   453264  15773U         1256       322     1577       3.6      0.9      4.5        20     55.7 s
:         RECHERIIE & DEVELOPPENENT              73084    98318    48        48958   259316       205        54      259      0.6       0.2      0.7        21      9.2 1
FORNAtION                             192741   123835   109331   108290   534197        347       197      534      1.0       0.5      1.5        35     18.9 t
:                                                                                                                                                                       a
SUIYI & EVALUATION                     76508    7B006    68006    6800    290526        189       101      291      0.5       0.3      0.        35      10.MS
:        FINCES I RESSOURCES HUMAINES             50500    67500    3600        00   172000         63      109      12        0.2      0.3      0.5        b3      6.t 1
S                   -----------.------- -~~~~~                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~- - ------- -- ----- --- ----------
s        TOTAL COUTS DE BASE                    693755   762373   680759   696518  2833405       2060       773     283          6        2        a        27    100.0
5        bmprevus Physiques                      42266    52975    44703    46234   186179         130       56      186       0.4      0.2      0.5        43      4.6 a
:        1eprevus Financiers                     23574    78188   118458   323698   543918        410       134      544       1.2      0.4       1.6       25     19.2 s
------    -----        - --- --- ----- ----- --- - ---------------------
*        TOTAL COuTS                            75959$   893537   843919  1066450  3563501       2600       963     3564       7.4      2.8      10.2       27    125.8 t
5        S Dont Frais de Oeplaceumnt                                                  36750
5        ASSISTANCE TECNNIQUE                     39000    67500    36000    19000   160500 1
5                                                                                            1
TOTAL IKVESTISSEMEITS                  308970   122380    37690    32090   501130 1
:        TOTAL FONCTIONIIENT                s   345795   572493   607069   646428  2171775 B
TOTAL COUTS DE BASE                s   693755   762373   680759   696518  2833405                                                                                      g
: Iprevus Physiques                5    42266    52975    44703    46234   186178 B
s        Taprevus Financiers                :    23574    78188   118458   323698   543919 i B                                                                                  t 
*         0TTAL COUTS                       :   759595   893537   943919  1066450  3563501 1
__  -_--__        _  _- _-------- ---------                 --  -  --        t---   -
B
B
B



11-Jon-86
COUTS IOESSA                                                                          Foreign      S of
- - ------------------ ----------------------- -- - ------------- ---------------------------- as  o          f    Base I
s96l     1987      1988     1989   TOTAL      LOCAL  F1EtISN    lATAL    LDCAL  FORE1IG       TOTAL    Total      Cost :
--   ---( (FCFA 000---------- -(FCFAmillion  --(US  sillioal-------- -                              -    -
BASE CENLTME BOUPXE                     389535   1         119550   104550   7331B5        470      263       733       1.3      0.8                 3 46    41.5
:                                                                                                                                                                          2
:        BASE FERKESSEDOUGOU                      94010         0         0        0    94010        29        66       9'       0.1      0.2       0.3       70       5.3
s                                                                                                                                                                          s
BASE WhN                                 6469          0        0         0    64690        19       45        6S      0.1       0.1      0.2        Jv       S.:
a        BASE 6AriDA                              67590         0         0        0    67590        20        48       68       0.1      0.1       0.2       71       3.8 :
P.A                                  489640   106500   106500   106500   808140         504      305       008      1.4       0.9      2.3        38     45.7
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~- --    ---------  -----------------                                   ----------- --------    --   ------------- 
TOTAL COUTS DE BASE                    1104465   226050   226050   2l1050  1767615        1041      727      1768       3.0      2.1      5.1        41    100.0 :
: sprevus Physiques                      81992    20535    20535    19785   142841         120       23       143      0.3       0.1      0.4        19      6.8 s
: qprevus Financiers                     39439    23332    39U8   261401   364140          352       12       364      t.0       0.4      1.0         3     20.6 :
-    - - - --- - - --                                                                   - - -- - --- -  -- - _ - _                 - 
TOTAL COUTS                            122586   269917   286553   492236  2274602        1513      761      2275      4.3       2.2      6.5        33    128.7
:                 Fprevus financiers DECAISSIENTS                                       -1616
:                                                                                                                                                                          a
ASSISTANCE TECHNIOUE                     15MW     3C000    30000    150D0    90000 8
TOTAL INVESTISSEHENTS               2  947940          0        0         0   947940 I
TOTAL FWICTIONNENENT                :   141525   196050   196050   196050   729675 I
TOTAL COUTS DE BASE                 :  1104465   226050   226050   211050  1767615 t
:        Iqprevus Physiques                  s    9192    20535    20535    19785   142841 1
: tprevus Financiers                :    39439    23332    39968   261401   364140                                                                                 g
---    -----    --------   ----------S
MTTAL COUTS                         :  1225096   269917   286553   492236  2274602 1
-_-----------------------------------     -------------1                                                                                                             0  cr   I
8 4.
82



COUTS IRCC                                                                             Foreign      I of          a
X --------------- ---------------------aa t of  gS m
1996     1987      1998     1989   TOTAL      LOCAL  FOREI81    TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL    Total         Cost           a
a                                              ----I(FCFA  000 --- -(FCFA llion) ------ -(US eillmn)----- --    -
t        RECIERCHE CAFE CACAO                     187bl5  216890   213250   13610   754065          458       297       754      1.3      0.8       2.2        39    100.0           5
s        TOTAL COUTS DE BASE                      197615   216890   213250   136310   754065        458       297      754       1.3      0.8       2.2        39    100.0           5
mepravus Physiques                        7801      7045     0208      9631    31685        22        1O       32      0.1       0.0       0.1       31       4.2           :
1        Inpravus Financiers                       6266    21877    37052    6182   131377           78        54       131      0.2      0.2       0.4        41     17.4           5
:                                              -       -:---------
t        TOTAL COUTS                             201691   245812   258510   211123   917126         557       360      917       1.6       1.0      2.6        39    12t.6           :
I        lprevus Financiers DECAISSEEINT                                                 80Q 
ASSIStANCE TECHNIQUE                     65000   130000   13000       50000   375000 $
TOTAL INVESTISSENENTS               s    92220    19380      2340         0   113940 1
t                    s                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
:        TOTAL FONCTIONNENET                 s    30395    67510    80910    86310   265125 1
I
TOTAL COUTS BE BASE                 :   187615   216890   213250   136310   754065 t
Ilprevus Physiques                        7801      7045     8209      8631    31685 t
:         qtprevus Financiers                :     6266    21977    37052    66182   131377 t
-------------    -   -_ - - --- -    -- _ -  ---
s        TOTAL COUTS                         :   2016B1   245812   259510   211123   917126 t
I F
I La
o@ 
09
0 Sr



I1-u-8  l-Jua-36
t~~~~~~~~~on -------  -                                                 ----i-  Z 201 bi
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~as I of                                                        ease
16        M987    1988     1989  TOTAL      LOCAL FOEI61    TOTAL    LOCAL  FOEIBI    TOTAL    Total    C.,t
X  ---------IFCFA 000--------  -IfCFA aillion)----  -WS,  illion)- -                                             -
a       IlllNISTERE FINANE                      78506     8506     8506     9506   104026       57        47      104      0.2      0.1      0.3       4!    100.0
a       SISTENE STRCTIES           fIEMI)
t UORDINATION MPROET       (lENO)
I                                                                                                               _       ---__  
TOTAL COUTS 1  AE                      78508       8506     86 8506   104026            57       47      104      0.2      0.1      0.3       45    10.0
a       loprevus Physiques                       5395      265      265      265     619          3        4        6      0.0      0.0      0.0       58      6.0
lsprWw    Fianciers                    5070      823     1410     2038      9541        6        3        9      0.0      i,O      0.0       37      9.0
*       TOTAL COUtS                            98973       594    10181    10809   11917         65       54      120      0.2      0.2      0.3       46    114.9
s       luprevus Finantieis                                                             17
I~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5=:                                                                          -s
ASSISTANCE TECIIIGE                    39000        0        0         0    38000 1
a             tOALINVESTISSEES                  36630        0        0        0   3A30 I
TOTAL FONCTIONENE T               a    3878      8506     8506     8506    29396 t
a        TIAL COUTS K  SASE                     71509     9506     8506     8506   t04026 t
*        Iaprenvs Pbysiques                :     5395      265      265      265     6190 
: lprrs Financiers                s    5070        23     1410     2038     9341 t
:       TOTAL COUTS                            89973      95m4    10181    10809   119557 *                                                              OW
5    5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
-1



ASRICLULTURA) EITEIISI PROJECT
FINKAIAL RAWINENT
DETAILED COST TABLE ICFAF COOS)
Cotst     Cfiii  -   -----Number of Units--------                $-------:       - VALUE IN CFAFS ---------TOTIAL    Foreign  6ross         I        F.Each.  Taxes
COST ITEMS                        UnWit  Per Unit   P11         PY2      P13      PY4      TOTAL  i            P11      P1       P13       P14    Cudf 000 Etch. 2  Tax I    s        Amout   Amout
studis    I 
Computerized Systems EPic      sean/utli      3800        to        0        0         0       10 :30W0                     0        0         0    3800      0.64      0.20 :24320                 7600
Compterized Systems SATIACI  i manlmtb        3500        3         0        0         0        3 :p.m                    p.m      P.m       p.0      P.m     0.44      0.20               F .*      P.m
Computerized Sysems NOEPALN :w/anth           350          3        C        0         0        3 :p.m                    P.#      p.m       p.m      P.m     0.64      0.20 :               .m      p.m
Nanagesent Systems ClOT        :sanI.tIl      3500        6         C        0         0        6                p.m      P.&      P.m       p.m      P.m     0.64      0.20 :             P.m       p.m
Base Costs                                               22         0        C         0       22:             39000        0        C         0  380                                    24320  7400
Physical Contingencies 103    3                                                                                 $ 800       0        0         0     3800                    a2432                   740
Price Contingencies            .:256.0                                                                                      0        C         0     2560                                  1639   512
Subjotal Management Studies  i                                                                                 44360        0        a         0    44360                    a28391                 691
2. External Asisistance  Accounts i                                                                    
Past kccounts SATNACI          $man/stb       3500        6         0        0         0        6 :              p.m      p.m      P.m       P.m      p.m     0.S       0.29 i             p.m        .
Past Accounts SODEPALK         30,an/ath      350         3         0        0         0        3s               p.m      11.m     P.m       P-$      p.m     0.19      0.29 i             p.m       P::
3. Technical Assistants                                                                              a 
Financial Adviwe  SATMACT      asanleth       300         6        12       12        6        362 a              .m      p.m      p.m      P.*       p.m     0.64      0.20 ip..                   i.e
Financial Adviwe  SUEPMJI   smanlath          300         6        12       12        6        36: aP.m                   P.m      P.m      p..       p.m     0.64      0.20 a             p..       P.m
Dale costs                     1                          2        24       24        12       72 I              p.m      p.m      p.m      P.m       p.m                                  p1..     D.C
Physical Contingencims Cl      a                                                                  1              p.s      p.m      p.4      P.*       p.m                    I             ER       Il
Price Continogencies           I                                                                  I              pm       pm       p..       P.m      p.m                                  ERR      El
Sub-Total Consultants S T.As  I                                                                                  P .*     D.m      p.*      P.*       p.m      p.m       p.m      p.m      P.6      D.C      0t
Local Personnel-.              1                                                                                                                                                                            O
Financial Controller Kin.Fin. amafetb          400        6        12       12        12       42 a             2400     4600     4600      4800    1680      0.00      0.15 *               0      252     0 
Travel Allowance              jamn/days        12       44        Be       es       es       308 s             528      1056     1056     106      3696      0.00     0. 15 I               0      554      '
late Cots                      I                                                                                2928     585      586      58M      20496                    :0                     3074
Physical Contintgencies 0   3  a                                                                                   0        0        0         0        0                    a               0         0
Price Contingencies                                                                               a              159      536      922      1332     295                     I               0      443
Rub-Total Local Personnel      1                                                                                308      639   46778       7188    Z3447                     a0                     3517
4. Office Eqeipsmt                a                                                                  a



-4  -4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ n                       
-X                                                      i
X~~~~~~r                                   r                   Si 9 g      s R           sf
i~~~~~~~a ~ ~ ~
Z ~- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - !- - -                        -----        
U.      ' 2 
=                       °N                  WE                   l§§§§lewi4.  U    lE
-~~~~~~~~~ . 4 j
Z~~                   ~ ~~~~~ t                                  gj.
-4 
-4
--~~ ~~~~~~~~~-         ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - ----I   E
_4                                                                     4               2    - a    E sf iz  X..  i~i    
-4I                                                               I        I    !  rI           F
~                                                 1'1!°o
-S!¢ig                                .2X30F10F0   jlUoNlS¢{  jI3|liX  |
a                I
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Taqei :1806
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   i_ ,_ : 



- 76 -
ANNEX 4-3
Cost Tables
Page 10 of 11
VW COST
AuRICULTU     EllUI60  PEOJECT
Suesay of Project Cots
ICF^F NI1L1E\
NET
111. OF             I OF     TAES  OF TUBES
IIESS      COT      IRCC  SITMCI SOIVALUI FINANCE       TOTAL  TOTAL     TOTAL    TOTAL
EXTEIISION SERVICES                              15f               5419      2010              9024       441    2075      6948
Vehicles                                        53               60        245                98               30        53
Office Equipmt                                   o                                             0                 0         0
Perswel                                       1153              2852       25               4911               632      4299
Operating Costs                                399              1967       839              3195               1084     2112
USEARCH 6 OEVBLOPIElT                   2275      191      917      912       318              465        232      974     3711
Lad Cleariq                            37                         64        34               134                34       102
Ouildinp                              255                24       61        49               m                  92       300
Vehicles                              116                53       55        20               244                117      127
Training Equipnt                      30                                                      30                 9        21
Office Equipsnt                        55                39                                   95                 28       66
Agricultural Equipmnt                 553                 a      1O         17               75n                 el      617
Personan                              500       69      117      284       115              1065               312       m
Consultnts                            121      124      444                                  691               114       57
Operating Costs                       605               230      337       13               1255                167     1068
iRAII3MB                                         1059               1688      668              3414      17      805      2609
Vehicles                                        48                 2       42                152                62        90
Audiovisual Equipmt                            177               100        33               311                9S       218
Buildings                                      156               185        55               395                106      289
Personnel                                      67                180       88                945               259       686
Opeating Costs                                                   29        124               333                93       239
Daiy Sessions                                                    953      326               1278               192      1087
NOEITORINB & EVALUATIO                           703                680      353              1736        82      293     1443
Vehicles                                        19                46        42               107                43        44
Office ELipent                                  32                11        It                54                17        37
Personl                                        433               463        7               1072               132      m0
Operating Costs                                117               IlIl      120               348               101      247
Consultants                                    103                4          4               155                It
IPNNAEENT SYSTEMS                                  97               241       215      120      672        32     153      519
Technical Assistance                            24               224       198       44      40                 98      392
Office Equipnt                                  73                17        17       34      142                46       %
Vehicsl                                                                               5        5                 2        3
Perwnnel                                                                             23       23                 4       20
Operating Costs                                                                      It       It                 3         a
PESTICIDES COCOA                                                                                952        52     286
TOTAL               2275     3646       917     9963     3564      120    20484       1002    45U6    197
t illTlI              t6.5)   110.4)    12.6)   129.51   410.21    40.31 .58.51                (13.11   (45.4)
O__m uz mmiua zggia.um m                                                               u33urn2 _     u



- 77 -                                           ANNEX 4-3
Cost Tables
Page 11 of 11
tdle 1.1 -2949441 449 1       ? I_t
r-                      0 t t
--VW 9l2t2 -.--                     -.2144042.-
tat.u S2m       m                        nu    t    IV?                       S.a   LT   Cs    n                     I
t2l.4       _               .d                       t a4   *9                     4.4  9.       4*.       2i      U.
0b4"                                     141       Itr      11 12.                     L.S       I.t       S 1  It.
f1a12419 a t .4t,                         Iii      ffl      m                  .s       44       U         3       .ts
*ewad  _t m                                        t4    Irt                   t.1   L.S   L.              Jl   *1
W.9o9.  IWeuqI                          219        la3     nu1                3.9       2.2      99        a,    01.4
4t9721   1     .       t..                "1        19    Ia                   9.4      9.2 L     .1       IS      4.9
M04 d          4ttKIi                     419      in4      144                9.t      Lg       1.9       n       9.1
IiM                   SW44 4*P          292V                1.4     *LI      24.        2      1*9
*. CIII
W.4.         144tm                       Ito       222     gm                  Lt       9.4      2.4  1     1     4.9
99a44..hl      0                          29        2       W                 LS        4.9      4.         &      LI
9.t..9 & 1.41_41                          411       9       29                 1.9     4*.1 )    .1        It     3.9
11119.  29.9944                          229       914     31                 1.1      9l.9     '.9        22    19.
fi~~&% Amr-t                  -II        22       Ii                Lt       LI1      4.9  .             SJ2.
S...od  .122q44I.                       429        IS6   I              .      9.2&    0.9.  .1 .4         34  .4.
mlla                  3942      .9      2u                           LS tt V  1.#       2      12.
C. ItEl2
9191441it t                              141      22?     Ito                 L.       3.1      2.1       41    9.t.
U11Atwted                              wt    IV    011                      Lo* 3.1    Ls. 1   MAt"
49,04.2 4224.44                           IN4       2)      142               1.2       LI2      9.        it      Le
humd tat go _        "                    It         2 tl                     4e.1      *.1      94        H2 *2     .
MMd  tu          .                       ISt        tt?    4442 t                       2.1     I.t        SJ    t/.f
r14.  9424                               338 m     2 t       3                 2.t       L.1    i.2        9     SV.
r.W.                                     92a       412     224                L   1      .2 *     4h           2  ILI.
r.9.2m      9 tdulw                     4t4 4               S3 u               9.3     9J        1.9       16      L.
" d    ."_9                                n       124      I2S                 .i      *.4      9.4       a       2.5
94742242 Id 2,q4..                        299     mg        412P             11.1       Li      ILI 2t     t o"
9.uoul t.2 .  9u4 t. r                                       9                C1 t.4             9.1       U       tLt
H-u   t t       pwin                    itUt       5       tIct               St3       t.       t         IS     ILI
149                   1412     2229     1192               31.2      14      Ms         IS    229.4
2.13;
h29        b44 d                         tS42S     VI       24                1.l                2.2       39   t21.
t-tnel.  Iv# W                           43t       tt       t54               t.l      LI       I.t        a     eLO
ftys2.1 l2t.w. t                                    to tl                     4 tt  *.1                    St      t9t
ft492.  cm.94o.                            is       24      tit              L4   .2 4.          M.       41      12.
9424.                  UT u  tt  14                         1.1      9.9      2.4       St    1tt.A
F. 431ft IF f'LUK
2412942 1422441.19 S_I                      t       4       t9                9.2       9.      9.1        a    21.
W ld9 4   T)2-,44if44 V                                       4               4.9      4.9       4.1       n3     MS
Za.o  t,,,,,                                S        4        4               Le   :.    C4    S    L 
I4.W9 COU942rn                             *         2        2               4.I  *             9. L      31      I.:
14l2                    91    39   IN                       u        9a   TS            4t  214.
-.2       t.9 ."it U                              IttS t24                   11.1 129          t 11  .  2.9  21   44.4
Noth.. 94W22                             2422     III      list               9.       3.9      22.?       29     224
tr...1.                                 tin4      II    221                   Li)      2.9      2.9       11      1.
1Am.1.  42t                 t.4elm 192 t   2               2929               1.2      4.        49I       21      L.?
F1t41 4.81t.       t                     222       22      U24                1.1        9t      1.4       I       1.4
9*19421"                                2243      43*2    16414 t4.                   4.t    49.9         a9   I9.
lilaL a     la    cots24922            I2491     4122    241412              29.9     22       4.9        a     Le.4
2n 2la4 t9tt                                       ttt      92                2.4      9.4      2.9       29       S
9o Tout                              r/2               92                 Lo t  .9 I.       I.         n       Lt
14244342                                 41       19       2111               9.2      U.T      9.9       32      me
2991.141                3924       492~~~~~66   2993                                              ILI9 1  2.
NIL 9342 gm
t    W.                                 t21      292      329                42.2     21.9     3.               i9t
ir 1M s4A 3 t t_
249  2n 229                             2124     242      3921               42.       21.4    5W.         2t   134



- 78 -
Annex 4-4
Page 1 of 3
COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Incremental Extension Effort
1.        Table 1 presents an estimation of the cost of CIDT's, SATMACI's and
SODEPALM's extension services (including extension per se, training, adaptive
research and monitoring and evaluation activities), with and without project,
over the four years of the project period (1986-89). These costs are expressed
in constant 1986 CPA francs. In the without project case, CIDT's and SATMACI's
costs have been projected to remain constant in real terms at their 1986
levels; SODEPALM's costs have been projected to increase by 10% p.a. to reflect
the fact that the institution is in a growth phase and that -the number of field
staff would have been increased, even without the project, to allow the
institution to carry out a substantially expanded program of activities. The
table also indicates the project's incremental costs over the project period.
2.        Overall, the project would induce an increase in the cost of the
three agencies' extension activities of 19% over their without project level
(and of 13% over their overall budgetary requirements without the project).
This increase would be significantly lower than the projected incremental
increase in the number of farmers contacted (34%). Moreover, because of a
better extension methodology and messages better adapted to farmers' needs and
constraints, adoption rates of messages by contacted farmers would be higher
with the project.  The combined effect of increases in the number of farmers
contacted and in adoption rates would result in a much higher effectiveness of
extension services and therefore a significant decrease in the relative cost of
extension efforts.
3.        The project would induce a relatively small increase in the cost of
extension services per se (11%). Incremental field extension staff would be
kept to a minimum. Field staff would however (a) receive better technical
backstopping by Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs); (b) be relieved of most of
their input supply and c-redit activities by the creation of a special cadre of
agents responsible for these tasks; and (c) provided with the necessary
transportation to ensure their mobility. Because of their low current levels,
comparatively larger Increases would be induced in the cost of support
services: training (an increase of 942 over their projected without project
levels); adaptive research (115%); and monitoring and evaluation (111%). In
absolute terms project's incremental costs for these essential support services
would amount to about 45% (CFAF 5,762 million) of total project's incremental
costs (CPA? 13,057 million).



- 79 -
Annex 4-4
Page 2 of 3
4.        Project's incremental costs would vary according to current
organization and effectiveness of the concerned agencies. CDT is already an
efficient organization. The current number of its field staff is sufficient to
undertake larger extension programs, with a better organization and
geographical distribution. Accordingly, the project would only induce a small
(4X) increase in the cost of Its extension services. Actions under the project
would concentrate upon improving (a) the regular training of field agents (the
cost of training programs would increase by 64% over without project levels)
(64%); (b) adaptive research programs on food crops (20%); and (c) the
monitoring and evaluation of extension activities and effectiveness (78%).
Overall, the costs of CIDT's extension services would increase by 8% under the
project.
S.        SATMACI presents a different case.  The current number of its field
agents could allow the organization to carry-out much larger programs than
those effectively carried out at present. To do so, however, SATMACI needs to
(a) better plan, organize and supervise the work of its field agents;
(b) undertake a massive training program of these agents; (c) provide strong
technical backstopping of field services; (d) develop an active research
program in collaboration with research institutes; and (e) generate a steady
flow of information from the field about farmers needs and agents
effectlveness. Overall, the actions proposed under the project would increase
SATMACI's extension costs by about 30%: the cost of extension activities per se
would increase by about 21% above their projected without project levels, with
about 40% (CFAF 2.0 billion out of CFAF 4.6 billion) of the proposed increase
in extension costs due to moped allowances to improve the mobility of SATMACI's
field staff. The cost of supporting services (training, adaptive research,
monitoring and evaluation), which are nearly totally lacking at present, would
increase manyfolds.
6.        The needs of SODEPALM are similar to SATMACI's. Actions undertaken
under the project would be-of a similar nature: extension costs would increase
by 24% above their projected without project levels; the incremental cost of
supporting services (training, adaptive researc.. and monitoring and evaluation
would represent about 40% (CFAF 1,147 million) of total incremental costs
(CFAP 2,526 million), with limited adaptive research and monitoring and
evaluation programs being initiated (none exist at present) and training
programs being doubled, reflecting the priority given to improving the
technical skills of extension staff at all levels.
WAPAA
October 1986



COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Cost of Extension Services Over the Project Period (1986-89)
(million 1986 CPAP)
CIDT                                  SATHACI                        SODEPALM                            TOTAL
Without         With Project          Without         With Project         Without      With Project                    With Project
Project                        I       Project                       S    Project                      2    Without                        S
11      IncreM.   Total Inrease         2/    Incren.    Total  ner.       _    Increm.  Total Increase Proiect  Increm   Total    Incr
Extension      36,176     1,324   37,500      4       22,364   4,592      26,956    21  5,815 4/  1,379   7,194    24    64,355    7,295  71,650         11
Tranulng       .1,440       926    2,366    64         1,240   1,473       2,713   119    478        577   1,055   121       3,158    2,976   6,134      94
Adaptive
Research          820        167      987    20          316     864       1,180   273       -       274      274     -      1,136    1,305   2,441    115
HoultorIng
6 Evaluation      772       600    1,372    78           564     585       1,149   104       -       296      296     -      1,336    1.481   2,817    111
Other          10,852       -      10,852     -       19.896     -        19,896    -        -        -        -      -    30,748       -    30,748       -
5J                                     6/
TMrCAL        50,060      3,017   53,077      6       44,380   7,514      51,894    17    6,293   2,526   8,819    40   100,733   13,057 113,790         13
(excludlng
"Other")       39,208     3,017   42,225      8       24,484   7,514      31,998    31    6,293   2,526   8,819    40    69,985   13,057  83,042         19    O
1/ CWDT's extension costs projected to remain constant at their 1986 level; include costs of extension for cotton and food crops.
(Source: CIT's draft 1986 PAM).
2/ SATMACI's extension costs projected to remain constant at their 1986 level (Source: SATMACI's draft 1986 P M).  Costs include Center West Region's.
3/ SODEPALNts extension costs projected to grow by 10 p.s. in real terms because of planned expansion of its aetivities.
(Source: SODEPALH's draft 1986 PAA).
4/ Includes cost of the cassava program.
5/ Includes meehanization, cooperatives, other "am6nagements", etc.                                                                                        P 9
6/ Includes other programs supervised by SATMACI, seedling production and distribution, plantation maintenance, etc.                                       m X
WAPAA                                                                                                                                                      0 1
October 1986



- 81 -
Annex 4-5
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
LOAD DISBURSEMENTS
1.        The Bank Loan would be disbursed against three categories of
project costs: (a) investment costs; (b) technical assistance costs; and
(c) operating costs.
2.        Investments.  Project's total investment cests amount to about
CFAF 3,720 million (US$10.6 million) of which CFAF 1,860 million
(US$5.3 million) in foreign exchange. The project would finance
Investments in vehicles (trucks, cars, mopeds), research equipment
(meteorological and agricultural equipment), training and office equipment
as well as small civil works for research and training purposes
(experimentation sites and training centers). The distribution of
investments mong participating institutions and over the project's
construction period is presented in Table 2. Bank Loan disbursements would
finance the estimated foreign exchange component of investments i.e. 50% of
their total cost.
3.        Technical Assistance.  The project would finance about
285 man-months of technical assistance to:
(i) The Ministry of Finance for (a) the design of the public
enterprises' computerized accounting system (five m.m); and (b)
the initial audit of SODEPALM and SATNACI (nine m.m.).
(ii) SODEPALM for (a) the adaptation and setting-up of the PEe'
accounting system (three m.m.); (b) the recruitment of financial
director (36 m.m); (c) the skill gap analysis for its middle and
higher management (6 m.m.); and (d) the design and setting-up of
its M&E system (1 m.m.).
(iii) SATMACI for (a) the adaptation and setting-up of the Pks'
accounting system (3 m.m.); (b) the recruitment of a financial
director (36 n.m.); (c) the skill gap analysis for its middle and
higher management (12 n.m.); (d) the design and setting-up of its
M&E system (1 m.m.); and (e) carrying out the forest bench-mark
study (12 a.m.).
(iv) CIDT for the design of its improved accounting system
(6 a.m.) and carrying-out the Savanna bench-mark survey
(10 n.m.).
(v) IDESSA for (a) the recruitment of the chief of its pre-extension
service (36 n.m.); and (b) Initial assistance to the service's
start-up (1 M.n.).



-82-                     Annex 4-5
Page'2 of 6
(vi) IRCC for (a) the recruitment of the chief of its pre-extension
service (36 m.m.) and two researchers (72 m.m.).
The Bank Loan would finance 60% of technical assistance's total
costs. Disbursements would be done against fully documented contracts.
The allocation of Technical Assistance among the participating institutions-
is presented in Table 2 along with the corresponding disbursements. It is
estimated that about half of technical assistance requirements could be met
from Ivorian sources with adequate qualifications and experience.
4.        Operating Costs.  Bank Loan would finance certain items of the
three extension agencies' operating costs which are essential for
successful project implementation. These items are presented below.
1. SATMACI
(a) Salaries of Field         - Front-line extension agents (moniteurs)
Extension Staff:          - Extension Supervisors (superviseurs)
- Input Management Agents (conseillers de
groupements agrico'es)
- Subject Matter Specialists, Zone
(Techniciens Specialises, zone)
- Deputy-zone chiefs (chefs de zone
adjoints)
(b) Salaries of Adaptive      - Service Manager (Responsable du service)
Research Staff:           - Regional Manager (Responsables
regionaux)
- P0 Managers (Responsables PO)
- Enumerators (Observateurs milieu rdel)
(c) Salaries of Training      - Service Manager (Responsable du Service)
Staff                     - Training Center Managers (Responsables
Centres de Formation)
- Mobile Unit Operators (Op6rateurs UnitEs
Mobiles)
(d) Salaries of M&E Staff:    - Service Manager (Responsable du Service)
- Headquarters Statistician (Statisticien
Sitge)
- Regional Managers (Responsables
Rfgionaux)
- Enumerators (Enum4rateurs)
(e) Travel Expenses:          - Daily allowances for the staff mentioned
above when on operational travel
(indemnit4s de deplacement du personnel
ci-dessus)
(f) Moped Allowances:         - Monthly allowances for the maintenance and
operation of field staff's mopeds
(indemnitgs mensuelles pour l'entretien et
le fonctionnement des mobylettes des agents
de terrain)
(g) Adaptive Research         - Cost of adaptive research contracts with
Contracts                    IDESSA and IRCC (coOt des conventions de
recherche annuelles avec IDESSA et IRCC).



- 83 -                     Annex 4-5
Page 3 of 6
2. SODEPALM
(a) Salaries of Field         - Front-line extension agents (encadreurs
Extension Staff:             ruraux)
- Extension Supervisors (Assistants de
diveloppement)
- Input Management Agents (Gestionnaires
d'intrants)
- Regional Input Managers
(Adjoints-Gestionnaires)
- Subject Matter Specialists, zone
(Techniciens specialis4e, Del8gations
Departementales)
(b) Salaries of Adaptive      - Service Manager (Responsable du service)
Research Staff:           - PO Managers (Responsables PO/Regionaux)
- Enumerators (Observateurs milieu reel)
(c) Salaries of Training      - Service Manager (Responsable du Service)
Staff                     - Training Center Manager (Responsable du
Centre de San Pedro)
- Regional Managers (Responsables
regionaux)
- Mobile unit operators (operateurs unites
mobiles)
(d) Salaries of M&E Staff     - Service Manager (Responsable du Service)
- Supervisors (controleurs)
- Enumerators (enumErateurs)
(e) Travel Allowances:        - Daily travel allowances for the staff
mentioned above when on operational travel
(frais de dfplacement du personnel
ci-dessus)
(f) Mooed Allowances:         - Monthly allowances for the maintenance and
operations of field staff's mopeds
(indemnitgs mensuelles pour ltentretien et
le fonctionnement des mobylettes des agents
de terrain)
(g) Adaptive Research         - Cost of adaptive research contract with
Contracts                    IDESSA (coet de la convention de recherche
annuelle avec IDESSA).



-84-                       Annex 4-5
Page 4 of 6
3. CIDT
(a) Salaries of Field          - Front-line extension staff (moniteurs)
Extension Staff:           - Extension Supervisors (chefs de section)
- Input Management Agents, zone
(gestionnaires de zone)
- Subject Matter Specialists. Region
(Techniciens Specialie8s, Secteurs)
- Financial Managers, Region (Adjoints
Financiers, Secteurs)
(b) Salaries  of Adaptive      - Enumerators (Observateurs milieu r£el)
Research Staff
(c) Salaries M&E staff:        - Agricultural Economists (agroeconomistes
du service S et E)
- Supervisors (controleurs d'enquete)
- Enumerators (Enumgrateurs)
(d) Adaptive Research          - Cost of adaptive research contract with
Contract:                    IDESSA-Food Crop Center (cofit des
conventions de recherche annuelles avec
IDESSA - Centre Vivriers).
4.        The operating costs mentioned above would be eligible for Bank
financing under the project on a declining basis as follows:
- First year of project implementation (1986):  10% of eligible costs
- Second year of project implementation (1987): 50% of eligible costs
- Third year of project implementation (1988):  30% of eligible costs
- Fourth year of project Implementation (1989): 10% of eligible costs
Bank disbursements would be done against certified Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) which would be audited annually by independant
auditors.
5.        Schedule of Disbursements. The detailed schedule of disbursements
is presented In Tables 1 and 2 and summarized below:
Fiscal Years
Disbursements             1987   1988       1989      1990    1991   1992
Annual                    4.0    14.0        8.5       5.0      1.8     0.7
Cumulative                4.0    18.0       26.5      31.5    33.3    34.0
Expected Closing Date: June 30, 1992.



- 85 -
Annex 4-5
Page 5 of 6
Table I
REPUBLIC 0F COTE D'IVOIRE
ACRICtLTURAL EXTENSION PROJFCT
Estimated Disbursements
Bank PY   Semester     Estimate       Cumulative    Historical  Profile
Per Semester   Disbursements
------ (US$ Million)-----          2       Amount
 - e__            - ---------___------_-------_-_-_____ ---____________
1987          1            --                                      -
2            -              -             10        3.4
3           4.0            4.0             -         _
4            -             4.0            29        9.8
1988          1           3.0             7.0            -         -
2           4.0           11.0            47       16.0
3           4.0           15.0             -         -
4           3.0            18.0           60       20.4
1989          1           3.0            21.0            -         -
2           2.0           23.0            70       23.8
3           2.0           25.0             -         -
4           1.5           26.5            78       26.5
1990          1           1.5            28.0            -         -
2           1.5           29.5            83       28.2
3           1.0           30.5             -         -
4           1.0           31.5            87       29.6
1991          1           0.5            32.0            -         -
2           0.5           32.5            91       30.9
3           0.5           33.0             -         -
4           0.3           33.3            95       32.3
1992          1           0.2            33.5            -         -
2           0.2           33.7            98       33.3
3           0.2           33.9            -          -
4           0.1           34.0            100      34.0
Historical Profile used: Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, General;
Updated Disbursement Profiles, PPD, October 3, 1985.
Assumed Date of Effectiveness January 1987.
WAPAA
October 1986



DEMSEIW    TARLEt               2986198909881                                                                                                     1990                        2991                      TOMAl
INVESTIICU TABLE              COSTS  DISBUIRSE 12IS8493    COSTS  DISBURSE 01580S5   COSTS  02580SE 01IS0052   COSTS  02IS00SE DISBURSE   COSTS  81tS085  OISOIRS    COSTS  DISBURE DIS81*               COSTS  BiSBBS 01t8285
--------- -------                 CF4oo0                 I    £24000                 I      POCOA                 2 %  CFA000                 I    C2A0000                 I    CFA000                 I    329.000
IOESSA                         149.3        Sol    74.7    238.8         502    79.4    148.8        503    04.4    179.5          00    891.6    190.9       502    93.5    204,1t        50l   200.6   1048.0        WI2  524.3
2RCC                             17.7       sot      8.9     10.8        502     9.4      20.9       502    10.0      21.5        502    19.7     22.1        502    11.5      23.9       502    11.9    124.4         302    62.2
ClOT                             77.4       50l    34.7      82.2        501    41.1      87.3       502    43.6    100.2         50%    54.1      98.S       502    49.2    104.0         S0l    52. 0    557.5       502   21,8.8a
SATHAI                          197.1       SOT.   98.5    209.3!        302   104.7    222,3        301   111.2    236.3         302   128t.1    251.21      502   125.5    264.9         302,  232.3   1391.0        W0I   690.5
SOD2P~AUL                        80.8       50l    40.4      83.9        50T    412.9     90.2       Sol    45.6      96.9        502    48.5    103.0        542    51.5    108.7         50%    54.3    566.5        50    28.2
AM9FI860CE                       19.6       302      9.8     20. 8       302    10.0       0.0       502      0.0      0.0        302     0.9       0.0       SOT      0.0      .0.        301     0.0      40.4       502    20.2
TOTAL.                          542.1       503   271.0    573.8         502   287.9    5896         502   294.8    642.2         SOT   321.1    46.62        502   333.1    702.5         Sol   351.3   3710,5        501  18eq.2
0158595SE1E0T T,01.C: 
29g6                        I"?7                         1908                        1B9                          1990                        2991                      TOTAL
OPRAOTIIES COSTS TABLE         COSTS  OLSOJOSE DISB0RSE   COSTS  8100SfM 0I59005E   COSTS  OISUOSE 825S00E   COSTS   DSM DISBURSE M1I152 CSS  D118950 D1I81195E   COSTS  91I9005  0158UR5E   COSTS  01SBURSE DISBURSE1
---------------------                 0000                 2 000  2CFA0000                                          2    326000 I                     £A 000  2t    f   0          C2A 00                 I    226000
1OCT50                            0.0       t0,      0.0      4.0        302     0.0       0.0       303      0.0      0.0        103     0.0       0.0       t02      0,0      0.0        203      .        0.0        03      0.0
19CC                              0.0       102      0.0      0.0        302     0.0       0.0       302      0.0      0.0        10t     0.0       0.9       202      0.0      8.0        l0t     8.0       0.9        0t      0.0
CilO                          4566,5        103   45o.b   4842.7         303  2421.4   5136.0        302  1540.9   3449.9         102.  343.0       0.0        202     0.0      0.0        203     0.0  29995.3        232  4943.9
5AT86CI                       2415,4         202   201,5   315-.3        SOT  1576,4   388. 2        302  1076.5   395.5          100   395.0       8.0        207.    0.0      0.0        TOT     0.0  23S1514        25   Mo9.3
50O2PAL6                       466.0        242    66.6    889.7         502   444,4    "9. 7        302   299.9  21116.3         102   111.6       0.0        202     0.0      0.0        182     0.0   3672.         25?   923.0
K1?.KFINA3C                       I.8        202     0.8      8.2        302     4,2       8.8       302      2.7      9 4        103     0.9       0.0        20ol    0.0      0.0        183     0.0      54.4       232      8.5
TO3Ai.                         7655.8       103   165.6   8894.0         SoT  4447.0   973.          307. 2920.0  18334.2         103  2053.4       0.0       103      0.0      0.0        10?     0.0  34817.0        257. 9184.0
2984                        1987                         M98                         1989                        2990                         29191                      MUAL.
12E0013A1 ASSI510A2E          COSTS  D110SMS  ISSUS         OI ISOOB         ISUSE   COSTS  DISBU       CSRSE 2505  COSTS  DISBURE02802E0T   DISBURSE   DTSOIIOSE COSS   25895  028995     WSTS 5885  815885    COTS  0156225  112S E
---------------            I      FA 2 0     XCFAO2    £0000                        I    CA           %COOA2 3000                            t    C A20000                t    CFA4000                I    CFA 0OO
102550                          21.4        602    12.8      22.7        403    13.6      24.        602    14.5      25.7       602    15.4      27.3        602    16.4       0.0       602      0.0    222.4        602    72.8
28CC                             78.9       402    47.3      95.         603    50.3     89 2         M0    53.5      94.9       602    54.9    201.0         602    60.6       0.0       602      0.0    447.8        602   20.7
CLOT                             22.3       602    13.4      23.7        403    14.2      23.21      602    03.1      26.8        602    16.1      28.4       601    17.1       0.0       603      0.0    126.4        40?    75.8
503AC31                          48.1       603    28.9      31.1        602    30.6      54.2       602    32.5      57.o        603    54.6     61.3        603    36.8       0.0        602     0.10    272.3       60?   263.4
S00EPAL9                         35.6        402    21.4     37.8.       603    22.7      40.2       602    24.1      42.7        402    25.6     45.4        602    27.2       0.0        602     0.0    201.8        603   221.1
RZOIJ1NANCE                      21.5       602    12.9       22..9      402    13,7       0.0       602      0.0      0.0        602     0.0       0.0       602      8.0      0.0        603     0.0      44.4       603    26.6
90341                           227.8       603   134.7    24I.1         602   145.3    232.9        002   159.      247.7        603   148.6    263.4        602   158.0       0.0        602     0.0   123140        602   72.&
DISBURSEMENIT TA91Et
2984                        1987                        2988                         289                         2990                         2990                      TOTAL                                     .8.
TOTAL P022333 PCOSTS          COSTS  0IS0u053 01500RSE   C26S5  0ISBURSE DISBURSE   COSTS  OISBURSE 015800E   COSTS  DISBURSE DISBURSE   COSTS  D15005  DISBURSE   COSTS  015B05  DImSBUS    COSTS  DISBUR                   DSE 18153sq   J
--------------------3    CFA~  7Q  t                             EFA WO                  2    £26000                 I    CFA4000                2     C24 000                2    CFA4000                2    CFA0000
13E5c.A                         170.9                       101.6                       292.9                        203.21                      218.3                        201.1                      1170.0
1033                             96.4                       102.7                        109.2                       214.2                       122.7                         23.9                       372.21
3252                           4604.2                      4942.6                      5248,9                       5504.0                        124.9                       104.0                     20679.4
SAT6AC:                        2660.o                       WI1.7                       3844.0                      4252.4                        312.3                       26449                      14768.7
502E20L9                        782.5                      1012.4                       2131.1                      1255,9                        148.0                        09.                        4440.0
WIN.F!NAK3E                      is.,9                       52.0                          8.8                         9.4                          0.0                         0,0                        119.2
TOTAL    CFA                  84.25.7        14%  2073.3   9712.o        so,  4800.2  10353.7        322  335.5  10420.0          133  15,32.2    929.6       533   491.2    702.5        502   M5.2.  41749.5         283 11773.6
US$                                        33                         13905                        9384                        4352                         1803                         1004



- 87 -
Annex 4-6
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
THE EXTENSION METHODS AND ORGANIZATION
EXTENSION METHODOLOGY
1.        Each field extension worker (FEW) would be assigned a number of
farm families in a compact zone (circle). The number of farm families
assigned to a FEW would depend on local:conditions such as population
density, settlement patterns, agro-ecological and farming systems,
topography and accessiMility. It is estimated that each FEW could cater to
about 250 farms in the savanna region and about 350 farms in the forest
region where, on average, population density is higher. The specific zone
assigned to a FEW would be determined on the basis of a detailed survey
carried out by the agents themselves during the first two years of project
implementation.
2.        To reach systematically the farmers in his circle, each FEW would
divide the latter into 8 sectors. In each sector, he would organize the
farmers into three or 4 groups of about 10 to 12 farmers (contact groups),
based on location and affinities.  The FEW would visit each sector (and
therefore each group of a particular sector) on a fixed day of the week,
once every two weeks. It is estimated that, during the first year of the
project, only about 25% to 30% of the farmers of a particular zone would
actually be active members of a contact group. l/  This proportion is
expected to increase to 50 to 60% during the project's fourth year. The
FEW would work primarily with active members of the contact groups,
demonstrating, on the field of one of them, the cultural practices that
should be followed during the next two weeks. During each visit, he would
concentrate on a few selected recommendations relevant for the particular
phase of the crop cycle. The extension messages would be simple and, at
the outset, the emphasis would be on low-cost improvements (correct plant
density, timely weeding, pruning and spraying of coffee and cocoa, as well
as correct crop harvesting and on-farm storage) which a majority of farmers
can readily afford. To reduce risk, cultural recommendations involving
significant departures from existing practices would first be recommended
for adoption on only a small part of farmers' fields.   The FEW would try
to involve as many farmers as possible in the discussions and
demonstrations, visiting non-participating farmers' fields upon request.
In regions where women are actively involved in farm management and field
l/ On average, in the northern zone of the savanna region, over 90% of
all farmers grow cotton and have already regular contacts with CIDT's
extension services. These farmers would probably become active
members of contact groups from project inception.



- 88 -
Annex 4-6
Page 2 of 5
work, 2/ he would invite farmers to bring their wives along to the
visits.
3.        Each FEW would spend eight days in a two-week period visiting
farmers' contact groups. Another day each week would be spent alternately
attending training sessions conducted by SMSs or programming/debriefing
sessions with his supervisor. The last two working days in the two-week
period would be spent making up for missed visits or to undertake special
extension activities.
Planning and Supervision of FEWs' Activities
4.        The activities of front-line extension agents would be planned
and monitored by Extension Supervisors (ES). Each ES would oversee eight
to ten FEWs, planning their fortnightly visit schedule, ensuring that the
visits are actually conducted and providing technical guidance. Each ES
would spend eight days each fortnight making field visits.  He would also
participate in the fortnightly training sessions. The tenth day would be
used to meet with the FEWs he supervises to establish their program for the
next fortnight and provide information and guidance upon request. The
remaining two days would be spent providing extra support to weaker FEWs or
following-up on interesting extension-related matters. This ES level
already exists in SATMACI and SODEPALM and would be strengthened. It would
be created within CIDT.
Technical Backstopping
5.        To ensure a continuous flow of suitable farm recommendations and
the adequate training and technical backstopping of field extension
workers, it is necessary to stcengthen the technical support staff at the
zone or sector level. 3/ SODEPALM would provide three SMS in each zone
(one each for food crops, mecharisation and rural works); SATMACI would
also provide three SMSs in each zone (food crops, tree crops and
cooperative management); CIDT would provide two SMS in each sector (food
crops and mechanization). Zone or Sector SMSs would spend one-third of
their time training FEWs and ESs (para 9), another third in field visits to
provide technical support and guidance to field extension staff and the
balance in improving their own skills through regular dialogue with
research workers, carrying out simple field trials and attending short-term
training cotrses.
2/  This is specially important for food crops for which women carry out
most of the field work.
3/ A zone (CIDT, SATMACI) or departmental delegation (SODEPALM)
corresponds in general to an administrative unit with about 5000 to
15,000 farms and 30 to 40 FEWs; a sector (CIDT) or regional
directorate (SATMACI, SODEPALM) is composed of 3 to 5 zones.



- 89 -
Annex 4-6
-     Page 3 of 5
TRAINING
6.        Three kinds of training activities are planned: (a) orientation
and refresher training; (b) in-service training; and (c) other training.
Details of the training programs are presented in the Project File.
Orientation and refresher training
7.        All extension agents would complete a short pre-project training
course (three/five days) to become familiar with the basic elements of the
T&V system. 4/ Refresher/Complementary training would be given to all
field extension staff to bring their;technical skills to satisfactory
levels. In particular: newly appointed or promoted SMSs would follow an
intensive complementary training (one-month course) in their field of
specialization; staff to be involved in adaptive research would complete a
three to six months training program conducted, on-station, by the
concerned research institutions; and, staff involved in Monitoring and
Evaluation activities would complete a one-month induction program to be
trained fn survey methodology and techniques.
8.        In view of the lack, over the last few years, of effective
training programs for its extension staff, SATMACI would organize during
the first six months of 1986 a test to: assess the available technical and
communication skills of all categories of field extension staff (from FEWs
to Zone Chiefs); assess the skills missing for effective project
implementation; and to permit design of the immediate and medium-term
training actions needed to provide the skills required. The test would
also be the basis for the staff promotion-reconversion program proposed
under the reorganization of SATMACI's extension services (input management
agents, SMSs, etc.).
In-service Training
9.        The Project key-note training component would be the continuous
in-service training of field-extension staff:
(a) Fortnightly training would be organized for the FEWs and their
supervisors at the zone level. This training would be organized
by the development agency's Regional Training Officer and
conducted by the SMSs. Training during these one-day sessions
would be very practical and concentrate on the few specific
recommendations relevant to farming operations in the coming
4/   All of CIDT's staff and a small part of SATMACI's staff have already
completed this training under the Pilot Extension Project.



- 90 -
Annex 4-6
Page 4 of 5
fortnight. Field extension staff would also have an opportunity
to raise and discuss problems encountered during the past two
weeks. Part of the time would be spent doing field work,
practicing recommended cultural practices. Time would also be
spent learning about preparation and use of teaching materials
and communication techniques.
(b)  Monthly workshops.  Two-day multi-disciplinary monthly workshops
would be organized at regional level for SMSs, Zone Chiefs and
other selected regional extension staff to discuss problems
identified in the field by FEWs and SMSs. The frequency,
activities and composition of monthly workshops make them the key
-link between extension and research. Monthly workshops would
serve mainly to train SMSs but would also play a critical role
in:
(a)  Reviewing the success of production recommendations extended
during the past month and their acceptance by farmers.
(b) Selecting and discussing recommendations and impact points
for the forthcoming month after adjusting them to specific
circumstances.
(c) Reviewing the program of on-going field trials and analyzing
farmers' response and suggesting topic for new trials.
(d) Evaluating the success of fortnightly training sessions for
front-line extension agents.
The monthly workshops would be organized by the extension
agencies' regional training managers. However, the technical content of
the workshop and its actual implementation would be the joint
responsibility of the extensior and research staff.  The monthly workshops
would take place at regional research stations or extensioni agencies' POs.
Regular visits would be organized to field trial locations to review and
discuss progress of adaptive research efforts.
10.       Other training,  Regional Extension staff and SMSs would attend
regular (annual) training courses in communication and extension skills, to
make them more competent ai.d effective trainers. In addition, a variety of
in-service training would be offered throughout the project period to
upgrade the technical skills of extension and adaptive research staff on
the basis of specific skill gaps identified during project implementation.
11.       Training activities would also be undertaken fo. t.; purpose of
the Research Component. The extension agencies' personnel ,es, onsible for



- 91 -
Annex 4-6
Page 5 of 5
the management of the development agencies' POs and their enumerators in
charge of farm trials would receive from IRCC and IDESSA an initial
training in basic agricultural experimentation techniques (on research
stations) for a period of four to six months. Also, two plant protection
specialists, recruited by IDESSA to adequately cater to SATMACI's and
SODEPALM's needs in terms of assistance for plant protection in the forest
zone, would be sent to the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
(IITA) in Nigeria for a period of about six months, at the beginning of the
project, for complementary training.
WAPAA
October 1986



REqPUBLI(C OF (OTF D' IVOIRE
ACRICULTURAL EXTFNSION PROJECT
Government Cash-Flow Projection
(FCFA million)
1986     1987      1988       1989      1990       1991       1992      1993       1994       1995      1996       1997
Cash Inflow
Bank L.oan Disbursements at/              1,050    3,675    3.325       2.275     1,050        420        I05
Revenue on Incremental Production b/        -    _ 291    _ 898         2,783     5,075      7,27       9,259    10,927    10.927    10,927    10,927    10,927
Total Inflows                             1,050    3 966    4,223       5,058     6,125      7,697      9,364    10,927    10,427    10,927    10,927    10,927
Cash Outflows
Project Incremental Cost el               3.671    3.672    3.518       4,299     4,010      4,010      4,010     4,010      4,010      4,010     4,010      4,010
Interest Payments on Bank Loan d/           -         89       402       684        878        967        935       877        809        742       674        607
Repayment of Bank Loan e/                   ..                                       ...       793        793        793       793        793        793       793
Total Outflows                            3.671    3,761    3,920       4,983     4,888      5,770      5,738     5,680      5,612      5.545      5,477     5,410
Cash Flow                               (2,621)      205       303         75      1,237     1,927      3,626     5.247      5,315      5,382      5,450     5,517
N.B.: Current prices until 1990, constant prices afterwards.
a/  ased on disbursement schedule and an exchange rate of US$1.00 - CFA 350.
h/ On coffee and cocoa production only; Government's net revenue per ton of cocoa or coffee estimated at CFA 200,000/t in 1986 prices on averege. This tis
lower than Government's revenues In 3985 which were about CFAF 500.000/t for coffee and CFAF 400,000 for cocoa. It takes Into consideration
Government's objective to distribute to producers an increasing share of export revenues.
Annual inflation factor of 72 until 1990 and 0% afterwards.                                                                                                          a
c/ Net of taxes and excluding lncremental agricultural input costs; after 1989, only incremental operating costs,
d/ Based on the disbursement schedule and an interest rate of 8.5% p.a. on outstanding balance.
et Loan for 20 years with a 5 year grace period, repayable in 15 equal principal installments.
Incremental coffee/cocoa production
(tons)                                     -       1,360    3.920    11,360    19,360    27.?60    35,320    41,680    41.680    41,680    41,680    41,680
WAPMA
October 1986



COTE D'IVOlRE
AGRiCULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ProJect's Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year                                            1986                         1987                        1988                     1989
.arte.                                        1       2      3      4      1      2       3      4      1      2     3      4     1     2     3     4
GENERAL
- Setting-up of Project Steering Committee
- Setting-up of Research
Technical Committees (3) (Dec. 31, 1986)
- Discussion of Annual Programs (all
agencies) for extension, training,
research and l4onitorIng & Evaluation
(October)                                                        X                           X                                                   X
- Riannual Progress Reports (from each
agency and from Ministry of Finance
(September and March)                                                      X             X               X.          X           X            X
- Mid-term Review (June 30, 1988)                                                                  :
FINANCIAL
- Design of new SATMACl's and SODEPALM's
accounting system                                                      ------------
_ Setting-up of new Accounting System In
SATMACI and SODEPALM                                                                ---------------
- Preparation of SAT'ACI's and SODEPALM's
closing balance sheets                                        --------
- Submission of SATMACI's and SODEPALM's
closing balance sheets                                                                                                     .
- Audit Reports (all agencies), six months                                                                                                                0 1
after end of fiscal year                                                           X                            X                        X



Calendar YeAr                                           1986                        1987                         1988                    '989
Quarter                                       1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4       1      2     3     4     1    2      3     4
CIDT
Extension/Input SuppAz
Appointment  SMSs  (11)                       -------------------------
Appointment Zone Chlef Assistants (56)        -------------------------
Gradual divestiture of input supply                                                                                                          .
activities in favor of GVCs  _______________ .
Research & Development
Recruitment Enumerators (10)                  -------------------------
Agreement medium-term research contract                        X
Agreement annual research contracts
(October)                                                    X                                X                         X                        X
Monitoring & Evaluation
Recruitment Read of Unit                                 --------------                             .9
Recruitment Supervisors (3)                                      ------
Recrultment Enumerators (26)                                     -------------
Operation of new system                                                 ___________________________                -------------------- - ----------   -
Savanna survey (before June 30, 1987)                                   ____________
F.nancial Management
Design of new MIS System                                                 -----------
Setting-up  and  operation  of  new  system                                          --------------   -------------------------------------------------
Recruitment Sector Financial Managers (3)                        -
t Z
.n



Calendar Year                                               1986                           1987                          1988                       1989
Quarter                                          1       2      3       4       1      2       3       4       1      2      3     4      1     2      3     4
-....                .  .  . .   .  .  .  .   r..            _   _  _  .  .         ;-            -
SATMACI
Extension
Appointment SMS (66)                             ___ -_-_____
Appointment DZC (22)                             ------------------------
Appointment Input Supply Agents (117)            ------------------------- --------------------
Expansion of "Dep8t-vente" scheme                                   -------- _______.__-_______________ ____________________.
Training
Appointment Service Chief                                           X
Appointment Regional Managers (5)                                              -----------
Appointment Mobile Unit Operators (4)                                         ------------
Establishment Regional Centers (5)                                            -------------
Research & Development
Appointnent Service Chief                                           X
Appointment Regional Managers (6)                                             -------------
Appointmen,t PC ManTgers (5)                                                  -------------------
Appointment Enumerators (14)                                                  -------------------
Establishment POs (5)                                                         -------------------
Agreement Medium-term Research Contract
Agreement Annual Research Contracts
(Octuber)                                                                                       X                            X                        X
Monitoring & Evaluation
Establish of Unit and Appointment Unit
Chief
Appointment Statistician
AppoIntment Regional Managers (6)                                             -------------
Appointment Enumerators (36)                                                   --------------------------
Operation   new   system                                                           ------------------------------------------------------------------
Forest survey (before June 30, 1987)                                           ------------
Survey of Individual Circles by Field
Staff (before March 31, 1988)                                               ---------------------------
Manasement                                                                                                                                                            4
Recruit.w.ent of Finar'cial Yaveger (3 years)_ ._............... ....... ..                                        .               .. .. ._...            ......
Skill Gap Analysis (Recruitment befcrc                                                                                                                                Go
December 31, 1986) and Implementation                                                                                                                            en.
of recommendations                                                          -



Wol
LIBEkIA            1         o       U                                                                      k
aw*snd*^          anwondj                2 
~~~~~~r v>nre_4d*  I.--c--'u d n
} * nF  uV                                                       I',   C e ;
--          /       '            ,-/     0
\   eo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1~ ~~~~~~~ r                          r                            W4S A<                                                                       
COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
SATMACI SOPALM  CIDP   IESSA  IRCC
,  a3    HEADQAIATERS                             c    DEPARTMENT CAPITAL
SIEGE                                       CHEf-IELI DE DEPARTEMENT
A                   REGIONAL DIRECTORATES                  °    SUS-PREFECTURE CAPITAL
DIRECTION REGJONALES                        CNEF.tlEU OIE SOISPEFECWIRE
EXPERIMENTAL SITES                          SUB-PREFECTURE BOUNDARY
( be retd u    the prjec)M UTE DE SOUS-PREFECTURE
POINTS DOBSERVA?_ON                         INTERNAllQNAL BOUNDARY
tnr do    code du tA) UE DETAT
0                   EXPERIMENTAL SITES (EXISTING)
POINTS DYOBSERVAT7ON (EXISTANT)
es ,~       REGIONAL STATIONS
STArIONS REGIONALES
£           OUTSTATIONS
POINTS D'APPUI
_                        WV                       200
KILO0.FtER
7h% I*4W fW3 0"    by 1.p 001*O Ty"heod w'*S 5*Kc6.* led *1 co50.of
0'nWi aPW*mS Th dwW0l1Wbom qu N to.0006 II. *01605 1on u, .ite 1 do not
i15*. 001 ho Wl sof f lAS 51*6*O VIe SAft"aolle FV0.C Co,pMhm *I. A.6re*
co' 15* A" *1800017 ot 51y =4 NW & 0'W0V XCp60C* Os 1S8 tio*1



Calendar Year                                            1986                         1987                         19e8                    1989
g.arter                                        1      2      3      4      1       2      3      4      1      2      3     4     1     2     3     4
IDESSA
- Agreement Medium-term Research Contracts
with CIDT, SAThACI and SODEPALM
- Agreement Annual research Contract with
CIDT, SATHACI and SODEPALM (October)                                                       X                          X                        X
- Recruitment Chief Adaptive Research Unit
- Recruitment Food Crop Specialists (4)                                   - -________--
- Recruitment Sub-research Station
Managers (9)                                                           ________________________
- Recruitment Enumerators (12)                                           -----------------------
- Establishment Sub-Research Stations (3)                                -- - ----------
!RCC
- Agreement Kedium-Term Research Contract
with SATMACI
- Agreement Annual Research Contracts
with SATMACI (October)                                                                      X                         I                        X
- Recruitment Chief Adaptive Research Unit
Recruitment Regional Managers (6)
OAPAA   16.
October 1986                                                                                                                                               Of1
U'0



vo            ~~MALI                 '                    |
\'% ,Sr \_ *_t ) ~~~~~~~~~ <~~~ iX ~BU RK I NA   F AS O)
k  ,  I  -sk,<   ,,   S  ad _        \  o  f      1  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- 1~~~~~0 _  n\Notl ox      
\  tiiboK ) \/._° 9 otJ \ I [ z %_~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
l  4  {1O>rig  /<t     --    vt-\//"" >           FeRassXaoR  Ka .( 
GUINEA        C^,0- )\J    >>                                   ,     <                    t  
W 0  n~  - (' '_,  --.0-;-  ~~'- </
|   ~~~~~U   ,  ,$ \ s*~~~~~~~~~~0-                         - - r t-f,  K ATO I A ~~~<m,
?           >    L  (/ t ) G 4 ' ( L A/  1 1iE.._
is ww r N r j,,; W ^,- w- ' t - !t" r T w-nE;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  sr11



L~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ I B E R I                    A                                                            -,                          A        
/_E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o I \                                                                       'IL 
> To ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~w
LIE I                                                                                                       i   t                         
y-                     I/                                                             '\    -g1'0.
.    \          -L R    E  POE
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OlR    .£  U                            CM-tE  PE f
-, ~   ~     t \j e ae*d  /i he  /rjd                   itr  ESRF
SIEXPERtMENTAl SITES (EXISENG)
-~~~~~ POtSNTSUA                                          SVrON{XSAT
COTE DDIVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
SA/MACI SOOfPAkM  Clot  IoESSA                ,OCC
0  *   * ~~~~~  H1EADQUARTERS                              0    DEPARTMENT CAPITAL
SIEGE                                       CW"EV-i~  DE OEPARTEMENr
A  4               ~~~~~~REGIONAL DIRECTORATES             a     SUB-REFE-CTURiE CAPITAL
DIRECTION REGIOONALES                        CHEF-LIEU DE SOtOS-PRFECTLiRE
O                  ~~~~~~EXPERWIETAL SITES               -          UREPECIlRE BOUNDARY
(to be cretd undwr te proec)               LMW DE SOCS-PREFECUnRE
POINrS DV8SERVAlION                 - -INTE-RNATIONAL BOUNDARY
(4 arder dons t1o cdw 1e du prJet)          A4lE DETAT
EXPERIMENTAL SITES (EXISTING)
POINTS D'OBSERVATION (EXISTANT)
~~ A RIEGIONAL STATIONS
STATIONS REGIONALES
0       ~~OUTSTATIONS
POINrS D'APPIVI
0                        t00                       200
Te Nap two bea" Omopern tSy rho wai amee so# enaom* or vw omewwtca of
ate ro&4tme&. mt *nCkmw* t, go, k*en bam' ofe Th& ntorwa" &W OtW *ttwo
F..rJ.e QC.wsWft, The dxmt0hoewm ww~ &Wa Oe bowK*  6V ion. Mtme etv do 0.a
on* c the Wa of The atbtW* a&* & VW #*,Ea.o.wi yuan CWftl/Mh.%& O00w pou 
on NW e   ftogd0/b of aNW Mm/asor aNW .ato,onaof. . aocwano ad sof b#xwwi'a



