Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. 13118
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2765-IVC)
JUNE 7, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlk authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =      CFA Franc (CFAF)!I
CFAF 435               =      US$1.00 /
CFAF 1000              =      US$2.30_/
AVERAGE ANNUAL EXCHANGE RATES
YEAR                 CFAF                     USS
1985                  449                     1.00
1986                  346                     1.00
1987                  301                     1.00
1988                  298                     1.00
1989                  319                     1.00
1990                  308                     1.00
1991                  260                     1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSIE           Budget Special d'Investissement et d'Equipement (Special Budget for Investment and Equipment)
CAA            Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (Debt Amortization Fund)
CIDT           Compagnie Ivoirienne du Developpement des Textiles (Ivorian Company for Textile Development)
CIDV           Compagnie Ivoirienne de Developpement des Vivriers (Food Crops Development Company)
DCGTx          Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux (Department for Direction and Control of Civil Works)
EPN            Etablissements Publics Nationaux
FEW            Field Extension Worker
IDESSA         Institut des Savanes (Savanna Research Institute)
IRCC           Institut de Recherche sur le Cafe et le Cacao (Coffee and Cocoa Research Institute)
IRCT           Institut de Recherche sur le Coton et les Fibres Textiles (Cotton and Fibers Research Institute)
MINAGRA        Ministare de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales (Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources)
MDR            Ministare du D6veloppement Rural (Ministry of Rural Development)
PNASA          Projet National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles (National Agricultural Services Restructuring Project)
PO             Point d'Observation (Experimentation Site)
SATMACI        Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation de l'Agriculture (Technical Assistance and
Agricultural Modernization Corporation)
SMS            Subject Matter Specialist
SODEPALM    Societe de Developpement du Palmier i Huile (Palm Oil Development Corporation)
TMP            Test en Milieu Paysan (Test in Rural Milieu)
T&V            Training & Visit
FISCAL YEARS
Govermnent:   January 1 to December 31
CIDT:          October 1 to September 30
r/     The exchange rate for the CFA Frac is fixed at a ratio of 50:1 with the French Franc, which is free floating currncy.
Thir is the exchage rate quoted in the Staff ApprinLi Report and it refers to the parity on November 5. 1984, at the start of negotiation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OffAo of Dir.atm-orna*
Opwatkone Evuation
June 7, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on C6te d'Ivoire -
Agricultural Extension Project (Loan 2765-IVC)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire - Agricultural Extension
Project (Ln. 2765-IVC) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II was contributed by the
Borrower and is generally consistent with the Region's review.
After a short, 18-month pilot project in two districts in the forest and savannah zones,
this project was designed to introduce the T&V system to the country's main agricultural extension
agencies and to support adaptive research by two institutes. The project has been rated as marginally
unsatisfactory. Problems occurred in reduced relevance of messages to farmers' real needs, low
education and capability of the extension agents, failure of researchers to respond to a demand-driven
research concept, poor monitoring and/or lack of use of monitoring results, poor coordination
between agencies, weak financial management of institutions, and serious funding difficulties. At
their peak, the services reportedly "reached" 64 percent of farmers, but by the end of the project
farmer coverage had dropped to pre-project figures, largely due to scarce operating funds.
Despite the implementation difficulties and the uncertainties regarding sustainability
caused by the funding constraints, the project did have a modest institutional impact. An expectation
that services should have positive impact on farmer welfare was firmly established in the extension
institutions, and the project experience led to the definition and approval of a follow-on project which
attempts to overcome the problems which limited the impact of the institutional development under
the completed phase of Bank assistance.
The PCR is satisfactory. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2765-IC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ..................................................... i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .                   ...........................................   ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE    .....................   1
1.      Project Identity   . .........................................   1
2.      Background   ............................................                                         1
3.      Project Objectives and Description   ..............................  2
4.       Project Design and Organization   ...............................  3
5.   Project Implementation .               ..................................... 4
6.       Project Results . ..........................................   7
7.      Project Sustainability   .         .....................................   8
8.      Bank Performance   .          .......................................   9
9.   Borrower Performance . ..................................... 9
10.  Project Relationship . ....................................... 9
11.     Consulting Services and Studies  ...............................   10
12.     Project Documentation and Data ............................... 10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ................ 11
1.      General ..............................................   11
2.      Results ..............................................    11
3.      Gains achieved by the Agricultural Extension Project ................... 11
4.       Weakness of the Agricultural Extension Project ...................... 12
5.   Long Term Perspective . ..................................... 13
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ..................................  14
1.      Related Bank Loans and Credits   ............................... 14
2.       Project Timetable ......................................... 15
3.      Loan Disbursements ....................................... 16
4.       Fund allocations ......................................... 18
5.       Project Results .......................................... 19
6.      Project Costs and Financing ...........                   ........................ 20
7.       Status of Covenants ........................................ 21
8.      Use of Bank Resources ..................................... 22
NMA  IBRD No. 19547R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                 l






- i -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2765-IVC)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Cote d'Ivoire Agricultural
Extension Project, for which Loan 2765-IVC in the amount of US$34 million was approved on
December 17, 1986. The Loan Agreement became effective on December 18, 1987. The Loan
closed as scheduled on June 30, 1992. The last disbursement took place on November 30, 1992. The
undisbursed balance of US$ 1.7 million was cancelled on February 9, 1993 following the partial
refund of the Special Account. The last audit of the accounts of the project is underway.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Abidjan-based Agriculture Section of
the Agriculture Operations Division of the Occidental and Central Africa Department. The Borrower
submitted a PCR which was taken into account in preparing this report. A copy of the draft PCR was
sent to the Borrower, whose comments are presented in Part II.
Preparation of this PCR started during the final supervision mission of the project
carried out by the Bank in June 1992, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Development Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2765-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Backround
1.            Cote d'Ivoire's prospects for economic growth have continued to depend primarily on
the rate of growth of the agricultural sector which, in turn, depends on transfer to farmers of
improved technologies. To achieve this objective, the Government in mid-1984 requested Bank
assistance to improve its existing Agricultural Extension Services. In September 1984, a pilot project
incorporating the main principles of the Training & Visit (T&V) system of extension was
implemented, with Bank assistance, in selected geographic areas. It was completed at the end of
1985, after having been widely accepted by extension staff and farmers. The Agricultural Extension
Project was designed on the basis of the findings and lessons of the pilot operation. It aimed at
generating and disseminating improved agricultural technologies through existing extension agencies
(SATMACI, CIDV and CIDT), with support of two research institutes (IDESSA and IRCC) for
adaptive research activities and the Department for Direcion and Control of Public Works (DCGTx)
for monitoring and evaluation activities.
Project Objective
2.            The project was implemenited over a four-year period (1987 to 1991) and included
the following components: (a) upgrading of extension services through introduction of the T&V
system to the extension agencies (CIDT, SATMACI and CIDV); (b) strengthening of adaptive
research programs and research/extension linkages; (c) setting up of effective monitoring and
evaluation systems; and (d) improving the financial management of extension agencies, and the
technical/managerial skills of their staff at all levels.
Project Implementation
3.           The project became effective on December 18, 1987, exactly one year after Board
approval. This delay was mainly due to Government's slackness in meeting the following loan
effectiveness conditions: (a) submission to the Bank of the audited closing balance of SATMACI and
CIDV as of June 1986; (b) formal approval of the technical assistance recruitment for IDESSA,
CIDV and SATMACI; and (c) submission of evidence that the study concerning the MIS for the
National Public Institutions ("Etablissement Publics Nationaux-EPNs") had actually started (this study
was designed to look into the ways and means to strengthen their financial management).
4.           Financially, the early phase of project implementation was disrupted by: (a) inability
of project staff to effect timely and correct procurement of goods; (b) insufficient availability of
counterpart funds; and (c) the weak project implementation capacity - financial, legal and managerial
- of executing agencies. Project implementation was also undermined by a lack of coordination
between executing agencies, compounded by unforeseen institutional changes.



- iii -
5.           The T&V system was enthusiastically accepted by agency staff and farmers.
However, the emphasis on transmission of simple technical messages, rather than messages based on
a farming system's approach, led to sub-optimal results. Also, simultaneous interventions by
extension agencies in the same area led to some confusion and had a negative impact on the delivery
of extension services.
6.           Adaptive Research (AR) activities were based on a 'client-supplier' type contractual
relationship between research institutes and extension agencies. It was centered on the setting up of
experimentation sites (POs), designed to bring together researchers, extension agents and farmers.
AR activities did not yield the expected results due to: (a) lack of feedback from farmers to
researchers through extension agents; (b) difficulty of making research findings of practical use
available to farmers; and (c) insufficient attention paid by researchers to farming systems, including
farmers' economic constraints.
7.            Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) activities were not carried out successfully owing
to unclear definition of the M&E concept. Consequently, results obtained varied widely between
extension agencies. M&E activities focused on baseline studies. However, these studies were more
oriented toward data collection rather than assessing performance indicators. Although M&E units
devoted much time to the task, they were not able to establish an effective M&E strategy.
8.           Achieving an efficient level of financial management proved difficult, owing to
untimely provision of counterpart funds and a weak financial, legal and managerial capability of the
participating agencies. Consequently, the financial situation of the project became precarious at an
early stage of project implementation. All executing agencies experienced these difficulties, but each
coped differently. CIDV, IRCC and CIDT reacted quickly and positively to the situation, whereas
SATMACI and IDESSA were slow to implement the appropriate adjustment measures, leading to
continuing deterioration of their financial situation.
9.           There was no development of cooperative groups. Disengagement of government
agencies from input supply, marketing, and credit activities was not given the priority it should have
had.
10.          Actual project costs are estimated at US$56.1 million or 96 percent of appraisal
estimate (US$58.5 million). The Bank loan was 95% percent utilized (US$32.3 million). The
Government contributed 97 percent (US$23.8 million ) of the amount originally agreed (US$24.5
million).
Project Result
11.          Despite problems attributable to its innovative approach, T&V paved the way for
major changes in the extension system. Systematic in-service training of extension staff reinforced the
capacity of Field Extension Workers (FEWs) to transmit technical messages more effectively.
Surveys showed that the project reached a peak contact level of 64% of farmers over the period 1987-
1989. This exceeded the appraisal objective of reaching 50% of farmers. However the contact level
fell to 23% at the end of the project. Before the project, extension services reached only 25% of
farmers. This was mainly due to the financial difficulties that the farmers were experiencing.
12.          Although it was difficult to assess the performance of AR activities given the poor
performance of the M&E unit, a new foundation was set up for the future, offering clearer definition
of improved AR systems, including On-Farm Tests (TMPs), Experimental Sites (POs) and Farming



- iv -
System Experimentation Sites (PESs). Among these systems, the PESs is the most innovative as it
has led to substantial improvement of adaptive research-extension linkages, and has resulted in better
attention to farmers cropping systems and household economy.
13.          Results obtained from the development of cooperative management and M&E
activities fell short of expectations. However, this first experience laid a sound base for developing
future strategies.
14.          In spite of the financial, accounting and management problems encountered, the
project resulted in substantially reinforced financial capacities of extension activities. It contributed to
the design and adoption of improved budgeting and accounting procedures, including the setting up of
computerized accounting systems that could operate quickly and efficiently.
Sustainability
15.          The progress made under the project in improving the effectiveness of extension
delivery is proving to be fragile. In fact, this progress may well be stalled owing to increased
financial constraints faced by the extension agencies in the context of the deteriorating national
budgetary situation. The insufficient funding of operating expenditures had a negative impact on the
entire adaptive research-extension system. It led to fewer contacts between researchers and extension
agents, insufficient follow-up of adaptive research activities in the field, lack of systematic efforts to
seek feed back from farmers and to monitor activities through M&E units. The most visible negative
outcome is the insufficient generation of technical messages adapted to farmers' circumstances; these
circumstances are rapidly changing on account of the country's economic crisis. This situation leads
farmers to lose interest in what extension services can offer. Extension staff are left with almost no
means for field work have become disillusioned. The last supervision mission (in June 1992)
revealed the full extent of these problems. The mission found that the rate of farmers coverage by
extension agencies had slipped from 50% to 23% (lower than the rate before the project which was
25%). This figure is not in itself particularly significant: it is not an indicator of the degree of
effectiveness of extension, but it gives a measure of the real financial difficulties that extension
services are confronting.
16.          The funding constraint is being squarely addressed by the proposed National
Agricultural Services Restructuring Project (PNASA, FY94) which is to take over most extension
activities. However, this project will not be operational until early 1994. At present, there is a wait-
and-see attitude on the part of staff at all levels, and the achievements of the project under review are
being eroded. This situation is all the more difficult because the major extension agencies are
scheduled to be dismantled (CIDV, SATMACI and SODEPRA, with CIDT keeping reduced
responsibilities) under the PNASA project; the morale of staff is low. The PNASA project will
involve the establishment of a decentralized agency with private statutes and the restructuring of
MINAGRA's regional services. This will lead to staff reduction of about 3,500, therefore relieving
the budgetary constraints, and facilitating the operational effectiveness of the remaining staff. The
PNASA project will also address the need to generate technical messages adapted to farmers needs
with special emphasis on the farming systems approach. Its ultimate aim is to gradually transfer
agricultural support services from Government to cooperative groups and professional organizations.
The Government's commitment is essential regardless of the country's financial and economic
environment. A strong commitment by the Government to address funding difficulties and implement
the PNASA project will be key to maintaining the momentum gained during implementation of the
project under review and ensuring long term sustainability of its achievements.



-v
Findings and Lessons Learnt
17.          The following important lessons were learnt during project implementation:
(a)    much progress was made in spite of a very complicated institutional, financial and
economic environment which did not favor adequate project implementation and
management. Implementation risks posed by the fragile economic and financial
environment and the poor management capacity of executing agencies were not taken
sufficiently into account. Consequently, adjustments had to be made during project
implementation which were not always optimal;
(b)   the T&V system of extension is very efficient as it is tailored to local conditions. To
be widely accepted, T&V methods should address the farming system as a whole,
avoiding a one-crop focus.
(c)    an effective monitoring and evaluation system, with clear objectives, is indispensable
for efficient management of extension activities. Without an appropriate information
system, it is difficult to make timely decisions affecting project implementation;
(e)    although women play a major role in food crop production, they were not seriously
taken into account during project implementation. This problem is now being
addressed by incorporating women's issues as a key component of the PNASA project
and;
(f)   the efficiency of the T&V system is adequate as long as a critical minimum of funding
is available to enable proper mobility and training of staff. If operating resources are
insufficient, as was the case under this project, strong links between AR, extension
and farmers cannot be maintained, and the system could be disrupted and would
operate inefficiently. The upcoming PNASA project will take this constraint into
consideration.



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2765-IVC)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project name:       Agricultural Extension Project
Loan No.:           2765-IVC
RVP Unit:           Africa
Country:            Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Sector:             Agriculture
Sub-sector:         Extension
2.    Backround
2.01         Cote d'Ivoire's growth prospects have continued to depend primarily on the rate of
growth of the agricultural sector which, in turn, hinges on the transfer of improved technologies to
farmers. To achieve this objective, in mid-1984, the Government requested Bank assistance to
improve its agricultural extension services. In September 1984, the Government initiated
implementation, with Bank assistance, of a pilot project under which extension services in two
districts of the forest zone and in the entire savanna region were modified to incorporate the main
principles of the Training and Visit (T&V) system of extension. The project also included improved
planning and monitoring procedures. At project completion (end of June 1985) results showed that
the T&V system had been favorably received by farmers and extension staff alike, and that extension
agency managers were keen to using it as basis for operational work. As a result, the Government
approved wide spread adoption of the T&V system by the country's main agricultural extension
agencies: the Ivorian Company for Textile Development (CIDT) providing services for development
of cotton and associated food crops in the savanna region, the Company for the Modernization of
Ivorian Agriculture (SATMACI) providing services for food crops and coffee/cocoa development in
most of the forest region, and the Company for Oil Palm Development (SODEPALM) providing
services for oil palm and food crops development in Cote d'Ivoire's coastal strip. Support for the
required adaptive research activities was provided by two research institutes, the Coffee and Cocoa
Research Institute (IRCC) and the Savanna Research Institute (IDESSA). These institutes were
closely involved with project implementation as part of the objective to strengthen extension-research
linkages.
2.02         Given the central role of agricultural and rural development in the economy of CMte
d'Ivoire (accounting for 35% of GDP; over 60% of all merchandise exports; and 77% of total labor
force), the Government's agricultural policy emphasized: (a) increasing coffee and cocoa's
contribution to the economy (50% of the country's total export earnings) through a program to
improve quality; (b) promoting of other export crops to ensure diversification and greater stability of
export earnings; and (c) supporting food crop production (50% of the agricultural GDP) to enhance
food security and reduce the import bill. Implementation of this strategy depended on a shift of
incentives in favor of the agricultural sector and an increase in rural incomes that would motivate
farmers and permit investments in technological innovations. The Govermment, therefore, embarked
on major macro-economic reforms in 1981, as part of the first phase of its structural adjustment



-2 -
program. In the agricultural sector, these measures were supported, after 1989, by the Agricultural
Structural Adjustment Lending Program (Ln. 3127-IVC, FY89).
2.03         For the measures to be fully effective, it was essential, that farmers be given access to
improved technologies, which in turn required effective extension services, hence the rationale for the
project. The US$58.5 million project was therefore an important complement to the country's
structural adjustment program, designed to stabilize the economy, improve macroeconomic
management and lay a foundation for resumption of growth. The Bank supported the project with a
loan of US$34 million.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.01         Objectives. The project was designed as the first phase of a multi-phased
development effort to introduce the main principles of the Training and Visits (T&V) system in Cote
d'Ivoire's three major extension agencies (CIDT, SATMACI, and CIDV formerly SODEPALM), and
then improve the efficiency of the system over time. Under this project, the emphasis was on: (a)
increasing the proportion of farmers receiving assistance from extension services from about 25% to
about 50% by 1990; (b) extending simple crop husbandry practices and better ways of using modern
inputs when available; and (c) increasing linkages between extension and research to develop technical
innovations well adapted to farmers' needs. The project also aimed at improving the operational
efficiency of the three extension and two research agencies through reorganization and better
utilization of available resources.
3.02         Description. The project was meant to support an improvement of extension services
over a four-year period, involving:
(a)    modification of agricultural extension methods at CIDT, SATMACI, and CIDV (ex-
SODEPALM) with a view to incorporating the main principles of the T&V system;
(b)    systematic in-service training of extension staff at all levels;
(c)   improvement of research-extension linkages through a more direct, decentralized
involvement of research institutions in adaptive research and on-farm trials, and the
active participation of extension staff in adaptive research;
(d)    development of an effective Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system for extension
activities; and
(e)    establishment of an efficient Management Information System in each agency.
3.03         The project financed the following components:
(a)   incremental staff expenditures for (i) extension services to meet the need for wider
farmer coverage, better supervision and technical backstopping of field workers, as
well as for staff specialization (agents in charge of input supply and credit activities to
relieve extension agents from these duties), (ii) expanded training programs, (iii)
M&E activities, and (iv) adaptive research programs;
(b)    sub-regional research stations and small experimentation sites (Points d'Observation-
POs) in the forest zone, and construction or rehabilitation of training facilities;



-3-
(c)   transport equipment (mopeds, cars) to increase the mobility of extension and research
staff, as well as research, training and office equipment;
(d)   incremental operating costs; and
(e)   technical assistance for (i) carrying out benchmark studies of forest and savanna socio-
economic characteristics and establishing effective M&E units within the extension
agencies, (ii) establishing an efficient accounting system in each of the three agencies,
(iii) strengthening SATMACI's and CIDV's financial management, (iv) evaluating
middle and higher level management staff and establishing a comprehensive staff
training and redeployment plan, and (v) implementing applied and adaptive research
programs.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.01         General. Because of differences between the status Oegal, financial, managerial) of
the agencies involved in project implementation, the project design was tailored to the particular
characteristics and efficiency level of each agency. The extension agencies (SATMACI, CIDT and
CIDV) and the two research institutes (IDESSA, IRCC) were responsible independently for
implementing their respective components. There was no central service within the Ministries of
Agriculture and Rural Development vested with responsibility for overseeing agricultural extension
activities. Coordination at the national level between research and extension agencies was therefore to
be carried out by a Steering Committee which included representatives from the Ministries of
Finance, Agriculture, Rural Development and Scientific Research.
4.02         Extension. The extension service was reorganized along the lines of the T&V system.
However, two modifications were introduced: (a) the principle of contact farmers was dropped in
favor of contact groups; and (b) extension agents were relieved of their responsibility for input
delivery.
4.03         Adaptive Research (AR). The strengthening of adaptive research activities and
research-extension linkages was systematically pursued throughout project implementation. The
ultimate goal was to set up a 'client-supplier' type contractual relationship between research and
extension entities. This kind of relationship, which was critical for the success of extension services,
was established at the beginning of the project. It was centered on the setting up of experimentation
sites (POs) and on-farm trials. The POs were designed as the locus for meeting and dialogue between
researchers, extension agents and farmers with a view to adapting innovations to local conditions. As
a spin-off of the PO system, in order to take into account the socio-economic and environmental
sustainability aspects within the production systems, IDESSA initiated in 1989 a program of
establishing Experimentation Sites (PES) in Korhogo and Gagnoa.
4.04         Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The main reason for setting up M&E units within
the extension agencies was to help them improve their capacity to manage projects. From the very
beginning stage of project implementation, M&E activities were meant to provide information and
evaluation needed for efficient management.
4.05         Finance and Accounting. Financial and accounting management was to be centered
on: (a) providing audit procedures adapted to the National Public Enterprises (EPN) Accounting
System to reflect the international auditing requirements requested by the Bank; (b) reinforcing
internal control to improve financial management (two experts were recruited to design accounting



-4 -
procedures for SATMACI and CIDV); (c) establishing a Consultative Management Commission, a
sort of EPN Board of Directors; (d) managing fixed assets; and (e) producing the required audits of
accounts. Based on the Loan Agreement, audit reports were to be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the end of the fiscal year, i.e. before June 30 of each calendar year.
4.06         Support to Cooperatives. Credit and Input Supply. Professional organizations
(cooperative groups and cooperative unions) were to play an important role under the project in the
light of progressive government retrenchment from agriculture support activities (input supply,
marketing, credit delivery etc.). The goal pursued was to empower these organizations through
training in order to allow them to take over activities divested by the Government. The project aimed
to separate input distribution from extension activities, with a view to reducing the workload of
extension agents.
5.    Project Implementation
5.01          General. The project was initiated in early 1987 by the former Ministry of Rural
Development (MDR) following implementation of a pilot operation in selected areas of the country
for which the Bank provided a loan of US$2.5 million. This pilot operation lasted 18 months (from
mid 1984 to end 1985) and gave evidence of farmers' responsiveness to improved delivery of
extension services. In December 17, 1986, the Loan agreement (In. 2765-IVC) amounting to US$34
million was signed between the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire and the Bank. The project was declared
effective on December 18, 1987, with a full year's delay. Field operations started in the first
semester of 1987, i.e. before loan effectiveness, under funding of the Ivorian Special Budget of
Investment and Equipment (BSIE). The delay in loan effectiveness was primarily due to the
Government's inability to meet project conditionality in a timely manner. The Government was slow
to meet the following conditions: (a) submission to the Bank of the closing balance sheet of
SATMACI and CIDV, as of June 1986; (b) formal approval of the recruitment of Technical
Assistance for the adaptive research component of IDESSA and SATMACI; and (c) launching of a
study on the Management Information System for the EPNs designed to improve and strengthen their
financial management.
5.02         Project Cost and Financing. Actual project costs are estimated at US$56.1 million or
96% of the US$58.5 million estimated at appraisal. About 95% (US$32.3 million) of the Bank loan
of US$34 million was utilized. The remainder (US$1.7 million) was canceled on February 9, 1993.
The Government's contribution was US$23.8 million, i.e 97% of the amount originally agreed
(US$24.5 million).
5.03         Training & Visit (T&V). The effectiveness of the T&V method of extension was
undermined by: (a) the weak financial and managerial capacity of the extension agencies and their
consequent failure to ensure proper delivery of extension services; this difficulty was gradually
remedied as greater emphasis was placed on training at all levels; (b) excessive emphasis on extension
messages related to individual techniques and/or crops in isolation, rather than on messages
addressing farmers' entire cropping systems; (c) weak educational background of extension agents,
and their inadequate training in the area of diagnosis, analysis, problem-solving, training and
communications; and (d) short falls in the number of fortnightly meetings and monthly workshops that
were organized, limiting the ability to identify farmers' constraints and to respond to their needs. In
addition, uncoordinated interventions by multiple extension agencies in the same areas were harmful
to the delivery of extension services and often led to some confusion, with negative impact on
farmers' acceptance of extension services.



-5 -
5.04          Adaptive Research (AR). Adaptive research activities encountered implementation
problems owing to: (a) difficulties of extension agencies and research institutes in adjusting to their
new roles and relationships, as part of a system under which extension/research linkages were to be
strengthened and extension/research activities were to be more attuned to farmers' needs; (b)
insufficient consultation final beneficiaries (the farmers) in the process of developing technical
innovations; as a result, the technical messages often proved not to be tailored to farmers needs and
constraints; (c) failure by researchers to seriously take into account the farming systems approach,
and to consider key themes concerning, in particular, the interaction between cropping activities on
one hand, and animal husbandry, forestry and natural resources management on the other; in this
regard, the system of using a single observation site (PO) proved unsuitable; (e) the lack of
experience and motivation of researchers who had an unclear status within the Ministry of Scientific
Research an Higher Education; (f) fragility of the 'client-supplier" relationships between extension
and research entities, owing to the lack of funds to honor contracts in a timely fashion; and (g)
overall difficulty of researchers in translating scientific results into practical economic terms for the
benefit of extension agents and farmers.
5.05          Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E). The difficulty for the participating agencies to
grasp M&E concepts (most of the staff were ill-prepared for this new concept), caused confusion and
frustration. Concerning internal M&E activities, the M&E units got involved in a wide array of tasks
(large baseline surveys, statistical data collection, special surveys, etc.) that were not consistent with
the objectives pursued. These tasks proved labor intensive, time-consuming, costly and inconsistent
across agencies. For instance, whilst SATMACI's M&E unit failed to launch simple impact surveys
to assess adoption rates, the CIDV's M&E unit embarked on interesting qualitative surveys on the
adoption of technical messages, on participation rates, on the role of women in the T&V system, etc.
However, attempts by CIDV to use the results of these surveys to reorient project activities (notably
T&V system and AR activities) proved ineffective due to inadequate support from its senior technical
staff. The basic M&E function of 'evaluating problem solving and adjusting' could not be adequately
performed because of inefficient liaison between the M&E unit and the technical departments.
External M&E activities were entrusted to the Department for Direction and Control of Civil Works
(DCGTx). These activities were carried out in a fairly efficient manner and led to important
conclusions as to the sustainabiity of project funded operations.
5.06          Finance and Accountine. Efficient financial and accounting management proved
difficult to achieve because of: (a) initial overestimation of the financial operating capability of the
implementing agencies, particularly in relation to their legal status which did not provide sufficient
operating autonomy; (b) cumbersome and inappropriate financial management procedures (mandatory
approval of agencies'expenditures by Public Accountants from the Ministry of Economy and Finance)
applied by participating agencies, with the exception of C1DT; and (c) failure by the Government to
meet its commitments regarding provision of counterpart funding, and its lack of interest in applying
the lessons derived from audits. Also the Bank's funds were not adequately disbursed owing to the
lack of familiarity of participating agencies with Bank procurement and disbursement procedures.
Consequently, the financial situation of the project became precarious at an early stage of
implementation.
5.07          Support to Cooperatives. Credit and Input Supply. The objective of empowering
farmers' professional organizations was only partially met owing to unclear implementation
guidelines. In the forest region, where coffee and cocoa production prevails, the project was unable
to deal efficiently with cooperative groups which were yet to be fully affected by the coffee/cocoa
crisis. On the other hand, in the savanna region, CIDT did succeed in transferring (albeit slowly and
keeping a tight rein on operations) some activities to cooperative groups owing to its long-standing



-6-
experience in the matter, and useful collaboration of the Directorate of Mutuality and Cooperation
(DMC) at the Ministry of Agriculture.
5.08         Unforeseen Negative Factors on Proiect Implementation. Initially, three extension
agencies (CIDT, SATMACI, SODEPALM), two research institutes (IRCC, IDESSA), and the
Direction of Public Investment (DIP) of the Ministry of Finance were involved in project
implementation. Thereafter, project implementation was somewhat disrupted owing to several
institutional changes: (a) suppression of the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR), initiator of the
project; the activities of this ministry were transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRA) in
1987; (b) responsibilities entrusted to DCGTx in March 1987 by the Government by a special
Presidential Letter (lettre circulaire PR No. 179 of March 5, 1987) to monitor, evaluate, supervise all
investment projects, including rural and agricultural projects; (c) creation of the Ivorian Company for
the Development of Food Crops (CIDV) in 1988, as a new extension structure to replace
SODEPALM with the main objective of advising farmers growing food crops; and (d) creation, in
1988, of a sub-directorate for pre-extension activities (Sous-Direction de la Prevulgarisation) at the
Ministry of Agriculture, in charge of promoting agricultural extension and strengthening linkages with
AR structures. These factors posed serious coordination problems throughout project implementation.
5.09         Other factors which negatively impacted project implementation were related to long
delays in procurement owing to: (a) inefficient budgeting and programming by extension agencies; (b)
unfamiliarity with Bank procurement procedures; (c) administrative difficulties, including lengthy and
bureaucratic procurement procedures within the Administration (it took on average 16 months from
the release of competitive bidding documents to the final approval of bids). Because of the
inefficiency of procurement, the disbursement rate was very low: a disappointing 27% of the level
expected in the early phase of project implementation. Continuous and abnormal delays on the part
of the agencies in preparing and submitting their claims for reimbursement had adverse effects on the
financial situation. As a result SATMACI and CIDV were continuously short of funds during the
first five months of project implementation. The financial situation was aggravated by the lack of
counterpart funds, and, in the later part of the project implementation period, by the fact that the
follow-up project (National Agriculture Services Restructuring Project-PNASA, FY94).
5.10         Project risks. Of the three potential risks (inadequate budgetary support, ineffective
management, low adoption rate) identified by the SAR, the timely availability of counterpart funds
and the inefficient financial management posed the most serious problems for project implementation.
5.11         Actions or Decisions Taken which Affected Project ImDlementation. As a result of
institutional changes and the difficult financial and economic environment in which the project was
implemented, the Loan agreement was amended twice: in October 1989 and in March 1991. Funds
were reallocated to bring back into balance financial requirements under the various project
components and to release funds for DCGTx intervention for external M&E activities. In this regard,
the Bank increased its participation in the financing of operating costs from 10% to 80%.
5.12         Substantial improvement in the management of procurement and disbursement was
made between 1989 and the loan closing date. This progress was reflected in increased disbursement
rates which reached about 80 percent of target rates in 1989 and 96 percent of target rates in 1992.
The successful disbursement rate achieved at the end of project completion (by comparison with
similar projects implemented in Cote d'Ivoire) was the direct result of corrective actions taken by the
executing agencies as project implementation unfolded, particularly in respect to increased knowledge



of Bank procurement and disbursement procedures. The close project supervision by the Abidjan-
based Agricultural Section of the Bank was also a factor in obtaining these improvements.
6.    Project Results and Impact
6.01         Institutional Aspects. One of the most important achievements of the project was its
contribution to institution building. The project led to the reinforcement of the managerial capability
of extension agencies and the Administration's supervisory capacity. This was demonstrated by: (a)
the creation of the Sub-Directorate for Extension (Sous-Direction de la Vulgarisation) within the
Ministry of Agriculture; this Sub-Directorate to date has facilitated cohesiveness of extension
operations and has paved the way for the design of follow-up project (PNASA); and (b) the intensive
involvement of the Directorate for Control of the Para-Public Sector and Privatization (DCSPP) which
has fostered systematic follow-up by the Ministry of Finance of audit recommendations.
6.02         Ado2tion of Training and Visit (T&V) System. The T&V system helped improve the
organization of extension work and strengthened human resource formation. Its adoption, with equal
enthusiasm by extension staff and farmers alike, was eventually greater than expected, although at the
onset the system was perceived as insufficiently adapted to local conditions. Systematic in-service
training of extension staff, particularly the Field Extension Workers (FEWs) reinforced their capacity
for transmitting technical messages effectively. Surveys conducted during implementation as part of
M&E activities, indicate that the T&V-based extension system reached directly an estimated 64% of
farmers who benefitted from improved extension advice in 1987-89. This greatly exceeded the
appraisal objective of 50% of farmers reached, and is testimony to the capacity of the T&V method to
bring about major improvement in the organization and efficiency of extension services.
Unfortunately, owing to lack of operating resources, this rate fell to 23% at project completion. The
average level of farmer contact was about 25% before the project.
6.03         Linkage between AdaDtive Research (AR) and Extension. There was a substantial
improvement in the AR system, which came to be based increasingly on the farming systems'
approach. This is demonstrated by the adoption of practices such as on-farm testing (TMPs) and the
Farming System Experimentation Sites (PESs), instead of and/or in addition to, the traditional
Experimental Observation Sites (POs). The PES system, which will be pursued as part of the
proposed PNASA project, constitutes a real innovation. It consists of: (a) identifying the technical,
economic and social constraints, as well as regional agricultural potentialities; (b) experimenting
various economically feasible crop production systems that can integrate livestock activities and may
potentially be replicated throughout the region; and (c) increasing the technical efficiency of extension
activities, especially as regards the role of the Subject Matter Specialists. As a spin-off of the project,
two PESs have already been established in Tchelelovogo (northern region) and Gagnoa (center-west
region). During project implementation, extension agencies and research institutes cooperated
closely. The project laid the foundation for the formal links that exist at present, and which will be
further strengthened by the upcoming PNASA project.
6.04          Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Results of M&E activities were mixed. The
following difficulties were encountered: (a) ineffective operation of the M&E unit at SATMACI; (b)
lack of concentration of CIDT's M&E Unit on its mandate and priorities, leading to poor quality and
unreliable results; (c) excessive emphasis on financial and budgetary matters by DCGTx; and (d)
limited (although significant) impact of CIDV M&E recommendations on decision making process.
Despite these difficulties, this first experience in M&E led to at least one important result: i.e. the
recognition that M&E units are an important tool of project management.



- 8 -
6.05          Financial and Accounting. Despite a difficult environment for successful financial and
accounting management, the Project led to: (a) reinforced financial management capabilities of
extension agencies which, before the project, were penalized by shortage of liquidity and equipment;
(b) improvement, with the help of external technical assistance, in budgeting and programming
procedures; (c) elaboration of accounting procedures and establishment of computerized accounting
systems adapted to the extension agencies which had National Public Agency (EPN) statutes; (d)
training of Senior Financial Staff on Bank procurement and disbursement procedures; and (e)
establishment of permanent account audits practices, including timely submission of audit reports
(overruns were shortened from 10 months at the beginning of the project to 2 months at project
completion).
6.06          Project Impact. Although it is too early to fully assess the real impact of the project,
the acceptance of the T&V system by farmers and FEWs is evidence of a profound positive change in
the attitude toward extension services. The T&V method has allowed farmers to expect more from
FEWs. The latter, in turn, have been given an incentive to update their technical expertise through
continuous training. FEWs are becoming more aware of the importance of training as a key to
improving their efficiency and ensuring their promotion. The T&V method also permitted the
establishment of direct contact and close dialogue between groups concerned with extension activities
(farmers, extension agents, researchers, ministry staff) who often have conflicting interests. Decision
makers have also come to realize that: (a) traditional extension systems needed to be reformed
because they could not respond to the requirements of farmers in a changing agricultural development
context; and (b) extension as well as overall agricultural services need to be more client-oriented, and
to work more closely with farmers' professional organizations.
7.     Project Sustainability
7.01          The progress made under the project in improving the effectiveness of extension
delivery is proving fragile. In fact, this progress may well be stalled owing to increased financial
constraints faced by the extension agencies in the context of the deteriorating national budgetary
situation. The insufficient funding of operating expenditures has a negative impact on the entire
research-extension system. It leads to fewer contacts between researchers and extension agents,
insufficient follow-up of adaptive research activities in the field, lack of systematic efforts to seek feed
back from farmers and for monitoring of activities through the M&E units. The most visible negative
outcome is the insufficient generation of technical messages adapted to farmers' circumstances;
circumstances that are changing rapidly with the country's economic crisis. This situation is causing
farmers to lose interest in extension services. Extension staff who are left with almost no means for
field operations, are increasingly disillusioned. These problems were fully apparent during the last
supervision mission (June 1992). The mission found that the level of farmer coverage by extension
agencies had slipped from 50% to 23% (lower than the level before the project which was 25%).
This figure is not particularly significant in itself because it sheds no light on the quality of the service
delivered but it gives a measure of the real financial constraints that extension services are
confronting.
7.02          Funding constraints will be addressed under the National Agricultural Services
Restructuring Project (PNASA) which is to take over most extension activities. However, this project
will not be operational until early 1994. At present, there is a wait-and-see attitude on the part of
staff at all levels; the achievements of the project under review are clearly being eroded. Because the
major extension agencies are scheduled to be dismantled (CIDV, SATMACI and SODEPRA, with
CIDT keeping reduced responsibilities) under the PNASA, the morale of staff is low. The PNASA
project will involve the establishment of a decentralized agency with private statutes and the



restructuring of MINAGRA's regional services. This will lead to staff cuts of about 3,500 persons,
relieving the budgetary constraint and helping to increase the operational effectiveness of remaining
staff. The PNASA project will also address the need to generate technical messages adapted to
farmers needs with special emphasis on the farming systems approach. Its ultimate aim is to
gradually transfer agricultural services to cooperative groups and professional organizations. Without
the perspective of a quick improvement in the country's overall financial and economic environment,
a strong commitment by the Government to squarely address present difficulties related, in particular,
to minimum funding, and its determination to move quickly to implementing the PNASA project, will
be the key to maintaining the momentum gained during implementation of the project under review
and ensure long term sustainability of its achievements.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01         The Bank was deeply involved with the Government in the design and implementation
of the project. Various seminars and workshops were conducted to improve the capacity of the
extension agencies to implement the project. Seven supervision missions were conducted to re-orient
the decision making process. However, the major criticism that can be levelled against the project
designers is their overestimation of: (a) the availability of counterpart funding; and (b) the financial
and managerial capacity of the extension agencies vis-a-vis the implementation of such an innovative
project.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.01         Good cooperation, mostly at the technical level, was established between the
Government and the Bank. However, the Government failed: (a) to fulfill the project conditionality
quickly; this led to a full year of delay in loan effectiveness; and (b) to provide sufficient counterpart
funds in a timely manner, as specified in the Loan Agreement. In addition, the Government proved
unable to effectively coordinate the various executing agencies and this has had an adverse effect on
project implementation. For example, the Steering Commnittee which was created in 1987 to
coordinate project implementation never operated effectively. Recommendations made by supervision
missions were not always applied in a timely manner.
9.02         In 1987, the Government sought to improve coordination and operational performance
by entrusting external project supervision to the Department for Direction and Control of Civil Works
(DCGTx), an agency falling directly under the Presidency. The performance of DCGTx's Extension
Unit, which was adequately staffed and funded, was good and its intervention beneficial. However,
DCGTx's involvement created resentment from technical ministries and from implementing agencies
which felt that DCGTx was unduly heavy-handed. Relations quickly became strained, although they
improved as the project progressed. In 1992, Technical Ministries were given back most of their
prerogatives in these areas. DCGTx retained more limited control over technical and budgetary
issues.
10.   Proiect Relationships
10.1.        The Project has provided the first major vehicle for Bank-Government dialogue on
overall agricultural extension policy. Relationships remained very close for the most part, the Bank
assuming direct responsibility for much of the staff training. This led to mutual Bank-Government
involvement in the design of the upcoming National Agricultural Extension Services Restructuring
Project.



- 10-
11.   Studies and Consulting Services
11.1.        A baseline study was to be conducted in the zones of intervention of the extension
agencies in order to establish the situation at project start-up, especially as regards the identification of
the farming systems prevailing in these zones. Unfortunately, this study was completed in 1991: later
than envisaged. Another study focusing on the human resource development achieved by SATMACI
and CIDV was carried out from March to August 1989. This study aimed at setting up a strategy to
correct the discordance that existed between excessive staff and reduced workload within the agencies.
The training component of the PNASA project is largely based on the findings of this study.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1.        The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) together with the project files and supervision
reports were well documented and provided a useful framework for both the Bank and the
Government to review project implementation. All the implementing agencies provided completion
reports for their part of the project. Loan Agreement covenants were well understood by all the
concerned parties, but not always well enforced. This Agreement was amended twice: mostly to cope
with the need to generate more operating funds and ease the project's financial difficulties.



- 11 -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2765)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. General
The Agricultural Extension Project aimed at improving the extension services of three
major development agencies of CMte d'Ivoire - CIDT, SATMACI, and CIDV (ex SODEPALM) - by
adopting the key principles of training and visit (T&V) system. The specific objectives of the project
were to:
(a)    strengthen research and extension linkages;
(b)   increase the number of target farmers who could benefit from direct assistance from
extension agencies;
(c)    disseminate simple extension messages: for example, concerning the appropriate use
of inputs; and
(d)    develop the human resource base of extension agencies.
2.    &Aul
2.01 The T&V system proved compatible with local conditions and gave rise to:
(a)    adaptation of T&V to perennial crops (coffee and cocoa); this was important because
these crops need more time to respond to technical innovations;
(b)    application of T&V to support the cooperative sector; and
(c)   reformulation of some basic principles of T&V system by:
(i)    dropping the principle of contact farmers in favor of contact groups; and
(ii)   introducing the notion of a reference field rather than a demonstration field.
3.    Gains achieved by the Agricultural Extension Project
3.01         Difficulties were apparent at the implementation stage due to: (a) the delay in loan
effectiveness; and (b) simultaneous interventions by extension agencies in the same area which had
negative impact in the delivery of extension services. Despite these difficulties, there was a noticeable
improvement in the quantity and quality of services delivered.
3.02           ittol             The T&V system helped reinforce research and extension
linkages by establishing (a) contractual arrangements between researchers, extension agents, and



- 12 -
farmers; and (b) exchange programs between extension agencies of CMte d'Ivoire and foreign
extension institutions.
3.03         Structural Aspects. The T&V system has permitted re-organization of the extension
system by: (a) clear task definition; and (b) human resource development.
3.04         Technical Asp . The T&V system has made it possible to:
(a)    meet the quantitative goals of the extension agencies (with farmer contact levels of
100% in some cases);
(b)    constitute professional teams of adaptive researchers in rural areas;
(c)   improve extension training tools;
(d)    broaden the competence of extension agents (area and farm diagnosis, on-farm tests),
increasing their motivation;
(e)    achieved twofold increase in the number of farmers benefitting from T&V messages
(from 25% to 50%).
4.    Weaknesses of the Agricultural Extension Project
4.01         Weaknesses have been encountered during project implementation owing to:
(a)    non-coverage of training costs by external financing;
(b)    difficulty in recruiting adaptive researchers as a result of the absence of legal status
and career path for such researchers in C6te d'Ivoire;
(c)    delays encountered in providing external and the counterpart funds; and
(d)    degradation of the financial environment of executing agencies owing to the
accumulation of arrears with suppliers leading to interruptions in the delivery of goods
to extension services.
4.02         Two other weaknesses should be noted:
(a)    professional and interprofessional associations remained relatively uninvolved with
input supply and marketing activities, forcing the Government to maintain its logistic
support to farmers; and
(b)   in general, attempts to increase participation of women and young farmers were
insufficient.



- 13 -
5.    Long Term Perspective
5.01         Based on the above diagnosis, and to meet the overall goal of improving the quantity
and quality of the results of extension services, reform of the current situation is essential in order to:
(a)    refocus extension activities on technical and managerial advice as well as on training
of farmers in rural development activities including agriculture, livestock, and
forestry;
(b)    professionalize farmers by: (i) making their professional associations more
responsible; and (ii) establishing a tight link between the Government, and
interprofessional and professional associations based on the 'filire' structure; and
(c)    reduce the operating costs of extension agencies by:(i) reorganizing their system of
intervention; and (ii) substantially cutting staff.
5.02          The improvement and the re-organization of extension agencies will entail:
(a)   increasing the efficiency of extension by improving communications and increasing
the dissemination of innovations through the existing network of farmer contact
groups;
(b)    enhancing the technical advisory capacity of extension agents by refocusing their
intervention on a very small number of farmers per field agent. This will enhance
quality and give extension agents a more realistic workload; and
(c)   improving adaptive research based on a farming systems approach instead of a crop-
specific approach. Improved data collection in rural areas will also be a part of this
new approach.
5.03          In term of professional organizations, the focus will be on:
(a)    achieving full participation by farmers in solving their own problems; and
(b)    making farmers more self-reliant.
5.04         With a view to improving the financial environment, the focus will be placed on:
(a)    decentralizing and broadening the financial autonomy of Regional Directorates,
leaving the General Directorate with more strategically oriented work instead of day-
to-day business. This could shorten the decision making process;
(b)   improving accounting procedures and establishing computerized accounting systems
which will consolidate data and reinforce the internal system of control;
(c)    writing off outstanding debts of agencies and establishing a facility to provide
sufficient working capital in a timely fashion; and
(d)    assuming that the financing of the upcoming National Agricultural Services
Restructuring Project (PNASA) will be sustainable.



- 14 -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJEC
(LOAN 2765)
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                    Purpose                  Year of         Status
approval
Agricultural Extension   To get the commitments of staff   Mid-1984     End 1985
Pilot Project            from all levels involved in
agricultural extension within
CIDT, SATMACI and
SODEPALM to a new approach
to extension. To seek to test the
degree of cooperation that could
be established between research
and extension service.



- 15 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                Date Planned       Date Actual
Identification
Preparation                                      December 31, 1985
Appraisal                                        January 6, 1986
Negotiation              January 1986            September 25, 1986
Board Approval           July 1, 1986            November 11, 1986
Credit Signature                                 December 17, 1986
Credit Effectiveness     January 1987            December 18, 1987
Completion Date                                  June 30, 1992
Last Disbursement                                December 31, 1992



- 16 -
Table 3: Disbursements
A. Disbursements by Category
(in US$ million)
BANK
Category             Estimated          Actual       Actual as % of
Estimated
Civil Work-Land Clearing       1.00             0.60             60
Vehicles and Equipments        4.00             3.20             80
Consultants'Services           2.50             2.60            104
Operating Costs               23.00            26.00            113
Unallocated                    3.50             0.00             49
Cancellation            __1.70                            _
Total                         34.00            34.00
Note: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



- 17 -
B. Disbursements by Fiscal Year
(in USS million)
Cumulative
Fiscal year    Estimate   Actual    Actual as of  Estimate    Actual   Actual as
Estimate                           % of
l _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   Estimate
1987            4.0        0.0          0%         4.0        0.0         0%
1988           14.0        4.9         35%         18.0       4.9        27%
1989            8.5        16.2       190%        26.5        21.1       80%
1990            5.0        9.1        182%        31.5        30.2       96%
1991            1.8        0.3        1.7%        33.3        30.5       92%
1992            0.7        1.7        242%        34.0        32.3       95%
Total           34.0       32.3         95%         -          -
Cancellation     -          1.7         -
Note:        Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Source:      Loan Agreement
Monthly Disbursement Summary, April 1993



- 18 -
Table 4. Fund allocation
(US$ million)
Category            Estimate       Revised 1        Revised 2           Actual
Land Clearing
Civil Work            1.0            1.5               1.0              0.6
Vehicles and
Equipments            4.0            3.6               3.3              3.2
Consultants'
Service               2.5            2.1               2.9              2.6
Operating Costs
23.0           26.8             26.8             26.0
Unallocated           3.5            0.0               0.0             0.0
Total                34.0           34.0              34.0             32.3
Note. Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



- 19 -
Table 5: Poject Results a/
Extension    Potential farms  Objectives: Farms    Actual Farms  As % of   As % of
Agencies    to be reached   to be reached (50%)  reached      Potential   Objective
CIDV           98,376          49,188             67,000        68        136
SATMACI        370,083         185,041            272,345       74        148
CIDT           335,638         167,819            168,538       50         76
Total          804,097         402,048            507,883       64        127
A/ These data have been provided by the M&E Unit of DCGTx. The Bank supervision missions did
not undertake any independent data collection.



- 20 -
Table 6. Project Costs Financing
(in USS millions)
Planned according to Loan         Actual
Agreement
Land clearing and civil work        1.0                       0.6
Vehicles and Equipments             4.0                       3.2
Consultant's Services               2.5                       2.6
Operating Costs                    23.0                       26.0
Deposit & Special Account    __(0.2)
Unallocated                         3.5                       1.7
TOTAL Bank Financing               34.0                       32.3
Government                         24.5                       23.8
TOTAL                              58.5                       56.1
Source: Monthly Disbursement Summary, April 1993



- 21 -
Table 7: Status of Covenants
Section                                         Covenants                              Comptiance
2.02. (b)               Open and mintain in F CFA a special account in CM    Complied with
l__________________  on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank                                             l
2.03.                   The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 The Bank            Cosplied with
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date                                                                                     I
3.01(a)                 Provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,    CompLied with  Delays
services and other resources required for the
l ___________________    project
3.01(b)                 make the proceed of the Loan aLLocated available to   Complied with 5 month
the participating Agency under Subsidiary Grant            delay
Agreements
3.03. (a)               Cause the Participating Agencies to undertake a             Complied with
joint mid-term Project inplementation review not
later than June 30, 1988.
3.04.(a)                Establish or cause to be established not later than   Created but did not
December 1986, three Technical Committees to                function
coordinate activities
3.04.(b)                Cause said committees to submit for the Borrower's    compled with delay
approval, not later than October 31 of each year,
detail draft annual contracts for the execution of
l_________________   the medium term program
3.06.(a)                EstabLish and maintain a Steering Committee to              The Committee was
coordinate the activities of the borrowers and              created but never
_participating agencies                                     functioned
3.06.(b)                Cause said committee to at least twice a year to            Not complied with
review and, approve the draft annual plan and the
semi arnual reports
4.01. (a)               Maintain or cause to be maintained records and              CompLied with delay
accounts to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices
4.01. (b)(i)            Have the (above) accounts and the Special Account           Complied with deLay
for year audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank
4.01. (b)(ii)           Furnish to the Bank not Later than six months at            Complied with delay
the end of each year the report of the auditors.



- 22 -
Tabl- 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inouts
(Staff w-eks)
_         ____________________  Fiscal   Year                     Total
TASK                        85      86      ST      8        89      90      91      92      93             l
Preparation                12,4    42,1    _            _            =        =                      54,5
Appraisal                _ _    49 8                                                                 498 
Negotiation/Approval        --      213    9,6                            l1 9
Loan Processing (LOP)      0 2       -      3-3      =       =       =        =.54 l
S"-totsl              12,6    96 1   12,9          0    ,0  0   ,0  0   ,0  0 0    0 0    0,0    121,6
Supervision                                2 26    20,5   34,7   13 9    16,S    4,8    0,4    113,4
Project                             0,2    0,2       --      -- --                           --      0,4
Administration
Project Completion                          --       -               --              --     7,0      7,0
Report                       _
Sub-totaL             0 0     0 2    22 8    20.5    34 7    139 9        5    48    74 i
TOTAL                 12,6    96,3   35,7   205   34,7    13,9    165   4,8            7,4    242,4



- 23 -
S. Supervision Missions
Supervision         Month/         Number of       Days in Field    Specializations       Performances
Mission            Year           persons                          Represented a/       Rating b/
1            June 87               1                14          ECN                          2
2            February88             5               12          AGR, AGR, AE                 2
ECM, ECM
3            July88                 4               12          AGR, EC, AGR,                2
AG
|   4        July 89               3                12          AGR, AE, ECN                 3
5            JuLy 90               4                 a          AGR, ECN, EC,                3
6            April 91               3               12          SE, ECN, FA                  3
7            June 92                1                a          SE                           3
a,       Key to SpeciaLization: AGR * Agriculture; ECN z Economist; AE a Ag. Econraist; FA * Financial
Analyst, SE * Social Ecornmist.
Key to Status: 1 * Problm free or minor probLems; 2 * Moderate problem; 3 * major problems
N/A a Not pplicabLe.









I
I
i



r                           r                                                                        C                        S.%v/       
'K _               MALI '~/'~l. <   .0BURKINA    FASO
( t ) ~~~~~~~~~Iz tN   o o> |........~r~,'\ 
4~~~~  '                      'A                      L
GU I NEA               *    < t            t                               1        -    \
t~~      ~ N                     sl ,S ,/-OO                             ) / No N
r~~~~~~
\o.-t *A,- 7                                    IA Li Pb.   1                    / '             '             <--
-       -S 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                               GHANAC OEA
G INEA r                             r                        .r                                     r I
COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
*8                             ~~~~~PROJET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
P~~~~~~~~~~~~Sla o            Co.P-/-    Il)   I3szK
W  *    W    *     D~0      HEADCIUARTERS                 ED   DEPA YMENT CAPtTAL
SIEGE                                 CHNF-LIEU DE DEPARTEMENr
A  *    A            ~~~~~~REGIONAL DIRECTORATES         SUB-PREFECTURE CAPITAL
D IECTION REG/OA LES                  CHEFLIEU DE 5OUS-PRffECrURE
NEXPERIMENTAL SITES            ---- SUB-PREFECTURE BOUNDARY
(I. l# -rIld -ndbr ho.wlt            LlWlrf DE SOU5-PREFECTURF
(p     d- DOLS 1- c                            p_  INTERNATIONAG BOUNDARY
S           ~~~~~EXPERIMENTAL SITES (EXISTING)
POWTS DNO SERVAT ON (EX6 -TNT)
*A   Z    REGIONAL STATIONS
STATIONS REGIONALES
*OUTSTATIONS
POINTS D-APPU
o ~        ~~~      ~      ~      ~~~ I5  00OS00 (0
t~
_I..A.   ..   .
"~~~~~~000*> ~_ .1.   M                 o    I                                       ,.4.  X_   0   ..



