Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
jFLE COPY
Report No. P-3791-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$15.1 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR AN
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
April 26, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Official Rate (1979 - Nov. 1983)       Official Parallel Rate (Jan. 1983 -
Nov. 1983)
US$1.0  =  J$ 1.78                     US$1.0  =  J$ 2.4 - 2.9
J$ 1.0  =  US$0.56                     J$ 1.0  =  US$0.34 - 0.42
Official Rate (April 2, 1983)
US$1.0  =  J$3.5
J$ 1.0  =  US$0.29
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Jamaica and ACB: April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
British/US Units                       Metric Equivalent
1 inch (in)                            2.54 centimeters (cm)
1 foot (ft)                            0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)                            1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (mi2)         =          2.589 square kilometers (km2)
I acre                                 0.4047 hectares (ha)
1 mile per hour                        1.6093 km per hour
1 imperial gallon (gal.)               4.454 liters (1)
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB       Agricultural Credit Bank
BANCO     Banana Company of Jamaica
BOJ       Bank of Jamaica
CGA       Citrus Growers? Association
CIB       Coffee Industry Board
CIDCO     Coffee Industry Development Company
CNIB      Coconut Industry Board
EMOs      External Marketing Organizations
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
JDB       Jamaica Development Bank
JNIC      Jamaica National Investment Company
MINAG     Ministry of Agriculture
NSC       National Sugar Company
PCBs      People Cooperative Banks
PMU       Project Management Unit
PS        Permanent Secretary
SAL       Structural Adjustment Loan
SIA       Sugar Industry Authority
SIRI      Sugar Industry Research Institute
SSFDP     Self Supporting Farmers Development Program
TICA      Tobacco Industry Control Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Government of Jamaica
Beneficiary:                 Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) for credit component
Amount:                      US$15.1 million equivalent (including a capitalized
front-end fee).
Terms:                        17 years, including 4 years' grace; standard variable
interest rate.
Relending terms:             The GOJ would relend about $8.6 million of the loan
to the ACB on the same terms as the Bank loan, but in
Jamaica dollars (J$) at the exchange rate prevailing
on the date of disbursement. The GOJ would bear the
foreign exchange risk. ACB would lend to approved
commercial banks at an initial rate of 12% per annum.
The commercial banks would onlend to farmers at an
initial rate of 15% per annum. Onlending rates would
be adjusted periodically as required to reflect
changed financial market conditions. ACB and
commercial bank subloans would be for 2 to 12 years,
including a grace period on principal repayments of up
to 4 years.
Project Description:         The overall objectives of the project are to expand
production and promote marketing of export crops by
providing credit, critical support services and
infrastructure. The project provides for: medium and
long-term farm credit to export crop farmers to be
channelled through ACB and the commercial banks;
investments to enable expansion of cigar tobacco
production; upgrading of banana boxing plants and port
facilities, airport shed and storage facilities, and
plant protection facilities; technical assistance to
strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAG), ACB
and the commodity organizations and to carry out
extension activities, adaptive research, and marketing
studies; and training.
The project is subject to a number of risks. Those
arising from weather, pests and diseases would be
minimized to the extent possible by strengthening the
extension and advisory services available to the
farmer through the project. The risk of delay in
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
subloan processing and disbursements which could be
caused by lower than anticipated subloan demand
resulting from unfavorable world economic conditions
and the inexperience of the ACB would be minimized
through close supervision, advice and assistance of
the Bank staff and the technical assistance and
training to be financed under the proposed loan.
Project Costs:                            Foreign    Local       Total
ACB-financed and Other
On-Farm Investment 1/                     17.7       12.3       30.0
Civil Works                                 0.4        0.3        0.7
Equipment                                   1.4        0.1        1.5
Training, Studies and Research              0.7        0.6        1.3
Management, Extension and other
Technical Assistance                      2.5        1.2        3.7
Total Base  Cost                       22.7       14.5       37.2
Physical Contingencies                      0.5        0.2        0.7
EPrice Contingencies                        1.3        1.3        2.6
TOTAL                                  24.5       16.0       40.5
Front-end Fee                               0.1        -          0.1
TOTAL                                  24.6       16.0       40.6
Project Financing:
IBRD                                       15.1         -        15.1
GOJ                                         9.5        6.75      16.25
Farmers                                      -         9.25       9.25
TOTAL                                   24.6       16.0       40.6
- ~ ~  ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~
Estimated Disbursements        _______Bank Fiscal Years
(US$ million)
FY84     FY85        FY86       FY87      FY88      FY89
Annual                            0.6      3.5          3.6       3.0       2.9       1.5
Cumulative                       0.6       4.1         7.7       10.7      13.6      15.1
Estimated Rate of return:   21%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4381-JM
Map: No. I6942
1/ Includes about $0.4 million for investments in irrigation equipment and curing
barns, to be administered by the Tobacco Industry Control Authority.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR AN
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Jamaica for the equivalent of US$15.1 million, including a
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance an export crops project. The
loan would have a term of 17 years, repayable on a fixed amortization
schedule, including 4 years grace, with interest at the standard variable
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report entitled "Recent Developments and Economic
Prospects" was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 17, 1984.
Annex I contains the basic country data.
A.  The Jamaicarn Economy to 1980
3.        The economy of Jamaica was affected by severe disturbances during
the 1970s. The first years of the decade repeated the brisk growth perfor-
mance of the 1960s, but the trend was abruptly reversed as a result of
external shocks and the impact of domestic policies. As a result, in 1980
total GDP stood 18% below the 1973 peak, and every year between had seen
negative real growth in per capita income. Manufacturing declined by 31%,
and construction by 58%. The share of investment expenditures declined
from 22% of GDP in 1974-75 to 12-15% of GDP in 1977-80, while consumption
expenditures increased proportionately, reflecting the private sector's
declining confidence and a rapid expansion of Government current
expenditures.
4.        As a result of Government's expansionary policies for the public
sector, fiscal performance was weak over the period. The Central Govern-
ment current account, which had registered a surplus of 6% of GDP in
1974/75, showed a deficit of 4% of GDP in 1979/80, a downward trend which
was reflected in increased overall deficits. Reflecting this, and declin-
ing production for export, particularly in bauxite/alumina manufacturing,
sugar and bananas, the balance of payments was under continuous pressure.
The current account deficit on the balance of payments reached a high of
11% of GDP in 1976, but declined after the devaluations of 1978 and 1979.
Lack of confidence had by this time caused considerable capital flight, so
the deficits resulted in increasing levels of public debt, which rose from



-2-
17% of GDP in 1973 to 46% of GDP in 1980, and in declining net
international reserves, which fell from US$37 million in 1973 to US$-518
million in 1980, with gross reserves down to four weeks' imports.
B. Development Strategy
5.         The Government which came to power in October 1980 was therefore
faced with considerable economic problems, as noted above, but was committ-
ed to a reform of past economic policies, and to the institution of changes
designed to reverse the economic decline of the 1970s.  It saw the private
sector as the main engine of economic growth, and consequently sought a
reduction in the role of the public sector, through deregulation and
divestment of government-owned assets, such as hotels and sugar factories.
The development of exports, particularly outside CARICOM, was considered
the main impetus for economic recovery. The Government also sought to
improve the overall investment climate, in particular so as to attract
foreign private investment in sectors with potential for exports.
6.         The new Government quickly established relations with the IMF and
in March 1981 reached agreement on a three-year Extended Facility
Arrangement and Compensatory Financing Facility drawing, which would
together provide SDR 536 million over the three-year period. The
Government also requested a structural adjustment loan from the World Bank,
and a first such loan, for US$76.2 million, was approved in March 1982.
The SAL included conditions in balance of payments management, industry,
agriculture, and savings and investment, both public and private. A second
SAL was approved in June 1983, covering the same policy areas, but with the
addition of action programs in the field of public administration.
7.         One of the binding constraints on the economy during the 1970s--
and, of course, for the incoming Government--had been the balance of pay-
ments, and the shortage of foreign exchange. The Government had various
policies to address this problem, and indeed, the program in this area is
still evolving. One aspect was to attract a high level of official assist-
ance from bilateral and multilateral sources during the first few years of
the economic recovery program, to finance an increased volume of imports,
particularly of raw materials, spare parts and capital goods, in order to
increase levels of output, and provide the means to expand exports.
Secondly, the Government was committed to a gradual replacement of the
constrictive administrative controls over the level of imports and the
allocation of foreign exchange by a system of allocation controlled
primarily by market forces.
8.         An immediate devaluation of the Jamaican dollar, which is tied to
the US dollar, was ruled out as a policy option by the new Government, both
because it believed that Jamaican exports had become competitive after the
1978/79 devaluations, and also because it feared that further devaluation
would merely fuel the fires of inflation through wage demands. Rather, the
need for a devaluation would be avoided through an attack on inflation and
restraint on wages, with the public sector acting as an "example" to
others.



9.        The first step in introducing a more market-oriented system was
to decriminalize the informal foreign exchange market, and to issue import
licenses to be funded through purchases on this market (so-called "no-
funds" licenses) on a liberal basis. The second step took place early in
1983. It consisted of the full legalization of the parallel market, forma-
lization of its operations through institutionalization within the commer-
cial banking system, and a simplification of the import licensing arrange-
ments. This process was taken a stage further in November 1983. The
two-tier system was abandoned in favor of a unified exchange rate system,
with some built-in flexibility. The initial rate was set at J$3.15 =
US$1.00, which represents a 77% devaluation of the official rate. The
system experienced some initial problems with respect to daily rate-fixing
and rules for adjusting the band from time to time. However, revised rules
for these two aspects were put in place on March 15, 1984, which introduced
a broad-based auction system for fixing rates. The Government is taking
steps to rationzalize the market further by segregating private sector
arrears from current demand and reducing such arrears in an orderly way, as
well as permitting banks to purchase foreign exchange for the purpose of
opening new letters of credit. These steps are expected to introduce more
orderliness into the foreign exchange system, and bring about a situation
where the auctions are only required to meet demand for current
transactions. At the same time, the import licensing system has been
dismantled, and the only imports subject to continued administrative
control are items on the restricted list, and certain low priority consumer
goods. These remaining controls will be phased out gradually.
10.       The manufacturing sector--together with agriculture and
tourism--was viewed as having major potential for growth, and in particular
for an immediate expansion of exports. It suffered from three major pro-
blems: (i) an orientation towards the domestic market and against exports,
because of the structure of incentives, (ii) low capacity utilization, as a
result of a shortage of foreign exchange; and (iii) outmoded,
inappropriate, and badly run-down working capital equipment, because of a
lack of investment during the 1970s, and the unavailability of foreign
exchange for spare parts. To reorient the sector, the Government is
attempting to redress the balance of incentives towards export markets, by
gradually eliminating the main means of protection, the quantitative
restrictions, by the gradual changes in the exchange rate, and by the
expansion and liberalization of the Export Development Fund, which provides
exporters with foreign exchange to acquire needed imports. Private
investment, particularly from overseas, is being actively encouraged,
through the general improvement in the investinent cltinate, aqd through an
agressive investment promotion agency.                 0
11.       The agricultural sector had been the one area of growth amongst
the productive sectors during the 1970s. However, this had primarily been
through an expansion of production for the domestic market, and export
agriculture had steadily declined. Government was commnitted to a revival
of export agriculture. Several programs were designed to achieve this
goal, including: (i) rehabilitation programs for sugar and bananas, and
the encouragement of private sector involvement in these crops; (ii) the
introduction of competition into the external marketing of other crops,
through a termination of the monopsony powers of the external marketing
organizations (ED4Os), and a rationalization of the activities of the Z'40s;
(iii) improved incentives for nontraditional agricultural exports (i.e.,



-4-
excluding sugar and bananas); and (iv) the encouragement of private
investment, which has to. date included major investments in coffee,
bananas, floriculture, and winter vegetables.
12.       Tourism was seen as the other sector capable of an immediate
expansion of export earnings, because occupancy levels had fallen to very
low levels, and capacity underutilization was widespread. An intensive
promotion campaign was mounted, and Jamaica succeeded in counteracting the
negative image of lawlessness and antagonism to foreigners that had been
created in the seventies and that had seriously damaged the tourist trade.
Several Government-owned and operated hotels were leased to the private
sector, under terms where initial rents could be used for refurbishing. 'In
addition, the decriminalization and subsequent formalization of the
parallel market permitted an effective reduction in the price of tourism in
Jamaica, increasing its price competitiveness. The collective results of
this effort has been a rapid increase in tourist arrivals (25-30% a year)
at a time when tourism in the Caribbean has been falling by 7-10% a year.
13.       Less emphasis was placed on the role of the bauxite/alumina
sector as a source of growth, although the continued decline that this
sector has suffered recently was not expected or provided for in the
Government's scenario. Rather, it had been expected to continue at a
similar or slightly higher level of output. The Government agreed to
discuss changes in the production levy in relation to new investments by
the companies, but no major changes have yet been introduced. In recent
months, the Government has been very active in attempting to negotiate
bauxite/alumina barter deals, in order to attempt to maintain the level of
output, or prevent it from falling even farther, and some success has been
achieved.
14.       Finally, the Government has been trying to overcome another major
constraint to growth--the shortage of skilled and managerial manpower.
There was a major exodus of such persons during the 1970s, and attempts
have been made to attract them back to Jamaica, in addition to ongoing
efforts to upgrade skill levels of the work force, and in particular those
of new entrants to the work force. Some success has been achieved in
attracting people back, but the shortage remains an important constraint to
development.
C. Recent Economic Performance
15.       In contrast to the sharp decline of the 1973-80 period, the
Jamaican economy grew in 1981 by 3.3%. Construction and non-government
services were the leading growth sectors, but most productive sectors
responded positively to the improvement in the business climate and the
greater availability of foreign exchange. Unemployment and inflation both
decreased, the former modestly, but the latter dramatically, falling from
28% in 1980 to only 4.7% in 1981. The fiscal situation also improved, in
particular as a result of improved tax collection, and the current and
overall deficits improved by about 4% of GDP with the financing of these
deficits coming largely from external official sources. However, the
current account deficit on the balance of payments increased sharply to
12.8% of GDP in 1981, although this had been largely anticipated.  It had



- 5 -
been expected that this higher deficit would be covered by increased flows
of official assistance. This occurred for the fiscal year 1981/82, where a
balance of payments surplus of US$43 million was achieved, but a large
proportion of the increased flows came in the last quarter, and on a
calendar year basis, there was a further decline in reserves by US$81
million.
16.        In 1982, the Jamaican economy was severely affected by the inter-
national recession. In particular, output of bauxite/alumina declined by
26%, equivalent to 2.7% of GDP; consequently, overall GDP growth was only
0.2%. The severity of the decline in bauxite/alumina in 1982 reflects the
decision by the companies to maintain output in 1981, in the hope of a
recovery in 1982, which resulted in large stocks, and also the presence in
Jamaica of those aluminum companies most affected by the recession. If the
bauxite/alumina sector is excluded, real growth was 3.4%, with particularly
strong performance again in construction, non-government services, and
manufacturing. However, there was also a decline in agriculture,
reflecting stagnation in sugar production and slower than expected recovery
of bananas, and the depressive effect on output of other crops of the
greater availability of foreign exchange to finance food imports.
Preliminary figures indicate that economic growth of about 1.5% was
achieved in 1983, because of a recovery in the agricultural sector, and
continued expansion in the services sector.
17.        The decline in bauxite/alumina also affected the public
finances. The loss of revenue from the bauxite production levy amounted to
J$109 million (1.9% of GDP) . In addition, expected Bank of Jamaica
profits (0.7% of GDP ) failed to materialize. Despite a further 23%
increase in tax revenue, the Central Government current deficit worsened
from 2.6% of GDP to 4.0% of GDP and consequently the overall deficit
increased to 15.7% of GDP from 14.2% the previous year, with two-thirds of
the financing required coming from external sources. A similar pattern is
emerging for FY83/84, although the current account deficit is expected to
worsen to over 6% of GDP with the overall deficit held to a similar level
to FY82/83 through compressed capital expenditure.
18.        With the decline in bauxite/alumina, total merchandise exports
are estimated to have declined by 23% in nominal terms and merchandise
imports by 6% in 1982. Non-bauxite exports rose by about 13%, and with
tourism earnings rising by a further 15%, and transfers by 28%, the current
account deficit on the balance of payments improved to an estimated 11.9%
of GDP. On a calendar year basis, this resulted in an overall surplus of
US$88.2 million, but for FY1982/83, the net international reserves position
declined by close to US$150 million, causing difficulties with the net
foreign assets target of the EFF. Although a waiver in this respect was
granted by the IMF, the balance of payments situation did not improve
sufficiently in 1983 to permit the revised EFF program targets to be met.
Exports and imports were at similar levels to 1982, but with rising
interest payments and with private capital outflows, the balance of
payments recorded a large overall deficit in 1983. Consequently, the EFF
program was abandoned, and is to be replaced by a new Stand-By arrangement
with the IMF which is expected to be considered by the IMF Executive
Directors by the end of May 1984 to cover the Jamaican fiscal year April 1,
1984 to March 31, 1985.  The high level of official capital inflow of the



- 6 -
last three years has increased substantially the level of public debt and
debt servicing, which rose to the equivalent of about 26% of exports of
goods and services in 1983.
D. Economic Prospects
19.       The economic recovery program has begun to reverse the negative
trends of the economy, and this process is expected to continue. GDP
growth is projected to average 3% over the next few years, on the
assumption that there is a recovery in the economies of the OECD
countries. This is a critical assumption, particularly with respect to
bauxite/alumina, tourism and manufactured exports. Even with this rate of
growth, GDP per capita in 1986 would still be 12% below the 1972 peak.
Moreover, most of the recovery would be concentrated on raising
domestically financed investment levels rather than consumption, which is
projected to grow very modestly, with national savings rising from 8.4% of
GDP in 1982 to about 20% of GDP towards the end of the decade, particularly
through expected improvements in public savings.
20.       As a consequence of the export-oriented strategy adopted by the
Government, with the recovery in the OECD countries, exports of goods and
services are projected to grow by about 7% a year, largely reflecting re-
covery from present depressed levels. Bauxite/alumina exports would re-
cover their 1981 level by 1988, and sugar and banana exports are projected
to increase as a result of rehabilitation programs to the point where they
can satisfy, from domestic production, the protected EEC or US markets.
With imports projected to grow less rapidly, the current account of the
balance of payments is expected to improve gradually from the present level
of -11.9% of GDP, to a level of about 4.5% of GDP towards the end of the
1980s.
21.       Net external capital flows would therefore gradually fall over
the period, but would need to average about US$200 million a year. With
high levels of amortization payments, this would mean that gross inflows
would have to average over US$400 million per annum; private flows are
expected to increase gradually, and to supply about one quarter of the
required inflow over the period. Debt service levels will remain high, and
are projected to be at a level of about 15% of exports of goods and
services throughout the 1980s. This is considered manageable; provided
that Jamaica continues to pursue successfully its present stabilization and
economic recovery program, it should be considered creditworthy for
limited external borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
22.       The Bank had made 35 loans to Jamaica totalling US$598.2 million
after cancellations as of March 31, 1984. Of this amount, US$178.9 million
(30%) has been for infrastructure investments in transportation, electric
power, water supply and sewerage; US$172.4 million (29%) for structural
adjustment, program lending, and related technical assistance; US$98.6
million (16%) for a revolving fund for financing of inputs for export
industries; and the remainder has been for agriculture and agroindustry



- 7 -
(7%), education (5%), sites and services (3%), forestry (2%), population
and nutrition (2%), industrial development (6%), and petroleum exploration
(1%). As of March 31, 1984, Jamaica's debt to the Bank stood at $536.5
million, or 21% of external debt outstanding and disbursed; debt service to
the Bank during FY83 amounted to US$36.4 million, or 12% of total debt
service. These shares are not expected to change substantially in the next
five years. The undisbursed amount of Bank loans as of March 31, 1984
amounted to US$165.2 milllion. There have been four IFC investments in
Jamaica, the mst recent being a loan in 1981 to a flour mill company.
23.        Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initially, the Bank lending program emphasized
infrastructure investment. Although financing for this purpose continued,
the emphasis of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to
the social sectors, with projects in education, population and nutrition,
housing and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In
response to the changing economic situation, a further shift in Bank lend-
ing took place in the late '70s which gave priority to financing to help
relieve the country's pressing balance of payments problems and improve
Jamaica's export performance. Thus, in FY78 the Bank lending program con-
tained a US$30 million program loan and an US$18 million loan for the
rehabilitation of factories for Jamaica's export oriented sugar industry.
A US$31.5 million loan in FY79 was also directed at providing needed
balance of payments support, with most of the proceeds allocated to the
financing of the import needs of export industries through the
establishment of a revolving Export Development Fund; additional loans to
augment its resources were made in FY81 (US$37 million) and FY83 (US$30.5
million). Bank lending to Jamaica has recognized that resolution of the
country's balance of payments difficulties will require making adjustments
to the economy over a period of time. The Government embarked on a
structural adjustment program in 1981; the Bank has supported this program
with two structural adjustment loans in FY82 (US$76.2 million) and FY83
(US$60.2 million). The technical assistance requirements of the structural
adjustment program were met through a US$6.1 million technical assistance
loan made in the same year. Additional support for the Government's export
program was contained in a US$13.5 million loan in FY82 for the expansion
of a free zone project in Kingston.
24.        Although basic physical infrastructure in Jamaica is to a large
extent in place, much of that infrastructure is badly in need of mainte-
nance and rehabilitation. In response, the Bank provided loans for highway
maintenance and rehabilitation in FY79 ($16 million) and FY83 ($15 million)
as well as a $30.5 million loan for a similar purpose for the electric
power system in FY82. In addition, an urban transport loan ($16 million)
focusing on maintenance and the privatization of the bus system was
presented to the Board in March, 1984. Loans to support the Government's
Administrative Reform Program (US$4.5 million) and to strengthen the
National Water Commission (US$9 million) would be submitted for Board
approval in May, 1984.
25.        Future Bank lending is likely to be directed at the following
areas: a) continued support for the structural adjustment program; b)
projects in support of export development; and c) projects aimed at
conserving existing investment. In later years of the program, when the



- 8 -
country is better able to deal with its short and medium term balance of
payments situation, the Bank lending strategy contemplates greater emphasis
on more socially oriented projects.
26.       Several project loans in Jamaica have encountered delays in
execution in recent years. These delays have occurred for a variety of
reasons. Foreign exchange and fiscal constraints have affected progress of
some projects in the past.  In the case of the third power and the highway
maintenance loans, difficulties in meeting conditions of effectiveness
relating to tariff actions in the first case and staffing in the second
caused initial delays; both projects are now on stream and progressing
relatively well. International recession affected demand for factory spade
to be constructed under the Kingston Free Zone Project; demand has now
accelerated and 20 factories are under construction. Weaknesses in
management of the infant National Development Bank (NDB) have contributed
to a slow start for the Industrial Credit Project; a pipeline of
subprojects has now been developed, and several subloans have been
approved. The prevailing insufficiency of foreign exchange has also
delayed the effectiveness of the EDF III loan; it is expected that this
problem will be resolved shortly, in the framework of the reforms to the
foreign exchange market that were introduced on March 20, 1984. The single
most serious obstacle to timely project execution remains the lack of
skilled personnel in the public sector; current Bank lending attempts to
address this problem in part through the provision of substantial levels of
technical assistance and an even greater focus on institution-building than
in the past. In addition, the public administration reform project
referred to above would help the Government develop a civil service
environment which can better mobilize and more effectively use scarce human
resources.
Part III. The Agricultural Sector
Background
27.       Jamaica's total area of 10,992 square kilometers (2.7 million
acres) is unequally divided among plains, hills and high mountains. In
1981, only 398,000 acres were under cultivation of which about 70% was
under export crops; utilized land accounts for only 42% of the total land
suitable for agriculture. Some 86,000 acres are irrigated either by rivers
or wells. Jamaica's climate is generally favorable for most agricultural
activities and permits production of a wide range of crops over a long
production season.
28.       Of the 182,000 farm units in Jamaica in 1978/79, one third were
farms of under 1.0 acres operated mostly by renters; about half were
owner-operated farms between 1.0 and 4.9 acres; 16% were medium size farms
of 5 to 24.9 acres; and only 2% were in the group of over 25 acres. The
latter group owns 44% of farm land.  Some 31% of all farm units grew export
crops. The larger farms, which are usually one-crop oriented, produce
mainly for export and apply relatively more advanced technology and some
mechanization.
29.       Although the relative importance of agriculture in the economy
has declined since the mid-1960s, it still remains a major source of



income, export earnings, and employment. In 1982, the estimated
contribution of agriculture to GDP was J$400 million or 7% of total GDP, of
which 17% originated from export crops, 48% from crops for domestic
consumption and 35% from livestock, fisheries and forestry. In the same
year the value of export earnings from fresh and processed agricultural
products was US$98 million, or 13% of total exports. Sugar and related
exports accounted for 61% of total agricultural export value; bananas for
5%, cocoa 3%, coffee, 7%; root crops and vegetables, 6%; citrus, 5% and
pimento, 5%. Agriculture accounted for 21% of the labor force in 1981.
Agricultural Institutions
30.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MINAG) has prime responsibility for
rural development, provision of basic production services, research, and
the formulation of agricultural policy. Assisted by the Bank under the
aegis of the First Rural Development Project (Loan No. 1464-JM), MINAG
initiated a reorganization in 1977 aimed at centralizing policy and
planning functions, regionalizing all program implementation activities,
and reorganizing the Ministry along functional lines; this organization has
been accomplished and MINAG presently functions reasonably effectively.
The extension and other services provided by the Ministry are primarily
directed towards small farmers. Export agriculture is dominated by the
External Marketing Organizations (EMOs), which include the following
organizations: the Sugar Industry Authority (SIA), the Banana Company
(BANCO), the Citrus Growers's Association (CGA), the Coffee Industry Board
(CIB) and its subsidiary, the Coffee Industry Development Company (CIDCO),
the Coconut Industry Board (CNIB), the Tobacco Industry Control Authority
(TICA), and the Cocoa Industry Board (CCIB). Pimento is marketed by the
Exports Division of MINAG. A brief description of the EMOs significant to
the proposed project is presented in Annex IV. The functions of the EMOs
vary widely, including inter alia, export and domestic marketing,
distribution of inputs, processing, packaging, shipping, extension,
research, and production. The Government is currently taking steps to
rationalize the EMO operations, as described in para. 35 below.
Agricultural Policy and the Structural Adjustment Program
31.       Export agriculture (with the exception of coffee) has exhibited a
declining trend during the last decade, whereas domestically oriented
agriculture has expanded steadily. A number of factors have contributed to
this situation. One was a general movement of intra-sectoral prices in
favor of domestic agriculture in the 1970s. A severe foreign exchange
shortage in the mid and late 1970s led to reduced food imports, which in
turn led to implicit and explicit incentives for import substitution in
agriculture; it is estimated that domestically consumed agriculture
received prices 20 to 30% higher than border prices during that period. At
the same time the shortage of agricultural inputs, machinery, and spare
parts associated with foreign exchange scarcity had a differential effect
on the more highly processed and input-intensive export crops. The
monopsony power of the EMOs may also have resulted in implicit taxation of
the export earnings of farmers for certain crops. The widespread incidence
of praedial larceny, particularly in coconut, bananas and citrus, also
acted as a disincentive to production. Disease and natural disasters have
also seriously affected production of sugar, bananas, and coconuts during
the last five years.



- 10 -
32.       In addition to these problems, a number of other difficulties
plagued the sugar and banana industries, where the most severe
deterioration in production levels occurred. In sugar, an unsuccessful
experiment with cane-producing cooperatives, overstaffing of
Government-owned factories, reduced availability of key inputs,
deteriorating management and agronomic practices, and the weakening of
world prices for sugar after 1976 led to declining yields, a downward trend
in production, and increasingly serious financial difficulties in the
Government-owned sugar industry. In bananas, a host of problems
contributed to the crop's dramatic downward slide: inadequate agronomic
practices, high unit transportation costs to European markets due to
declines in export volume, declining quality, and managerial weaknesses in
BANCO. The industry is now dominated by widely scattered small farms, many
of which are located in inaccessible areas; the inability to benefit from
economies of scale in the provision of crop care and irrigation, and
difficulties in the packing and transportation of fruit from divergent
locations have made it difficult for the small farmer to produce fruit of
adequate quality for the export market at an acceptable return. As a
consequence, Jamaica was only able to export about 22,000 tons of bananas
in 1983, although it has guaranteed access to the UK market for up to
150,000 tons.
33.       In the context of its overall structural adjustment program,
which emphasizes the deregulation of the economy, greater private sector
participation and improved incentives for exports, the Government is
attempting to bring about recovery and rapid expansion in export
agriculture. A major step in this direction has been the recent
rationalization of the exchange rate system, which should result in a
substantial improvement in the profitability of export crops. The
Government has also taken steps to reduce praedial larceny by imposing
stricter penalties and increasing law enforcement efforts. The new
approach in agriculture is evidenced by the introduction of a major
promotional program (Agro 21) in 1983 which aims at mobilizing foreign
investment and technical know-how for the large-scale and
technology-intensive development of Jamaica's agricultural resources in the
production of nontraditional crops. The Government is also taking a number
of steps to streamline and diminish the role of the Government in the
agriculture sector, and to restore production in the troublesome
traditional export crops of sugar and bananas. These actions have been
supported by the first and second Structural Adjustment Loans (2105-JM and
2315-JM), and are discussed below in paras. 35-37.
34.       A major focus of the Government's program has been the
rationalization of the EMOs. The Government took steps to reduce their
monopsony powers in 1982; this action formed part of the conditionality of
SAL I. In the past three years, the Government has also conducted
management audits of all the EMOs and adopted programs for the
implementation of the audit conclusions. In addition, in 1983, two studies
focusing on the rationalization of the marketing and nonmarketing
activities of the EMOs (financed under technical assistance loan #2106-JM)
were undertaken. As a consequence, the Government has adopted an action
plan which emphasizes the divestment of nonmarketing activities such as



- 11 -
crop growing and input supply, and the centralization and upgrading
research, extension, and export quality control activities (See paras. 38
and 39). Steps to centralize the provision of Government-financed
agricultural credit in the Agricultural Credit Bank had already been taken
in 1982. These measures are expected to streamline the operations of the
EMOs, improve the coverage and efficiency of support services, and enable
the EMOs to increase returns to farmers.
35.       A second major focus of the structural adjustment effort in
agriculture has been the rehabilitation of the traditional export crops of
sugar and bananas. In sugar, the Government has adopted a strategy
directed at increasing production from its present level of about 200,000
tons to approximately 275,000 tons annually so as to satisfy its domestic
market and available export quotas in the EEC and the US. The weaknesses
in Jamaica's sugar industry stem primarily from the serious problems of the
National Sugar Company (NSC), holding company for six sugar factories. NSC
had accumulated losses of over J$200 million by September 30, 1983. Based
on the recommendations of a comprehensive management audit, completed in
1982, measures to restore the Government-owned industry to financial
viability have been initiated, including increases in the local price of
sugar, decentralization of management to the factory level, substantial
reductions in factory overmanning, the closure of two factories in the past
two years, and the initiation of an investment program to upgrade field and
factory operations. The benefit of these measures has been hampered,
however, by the serious shortage of cash, trained staff, and good
management at the factory level. The Government is conducting discussions
concerning the possible divestment of two of the Government-owned
factories, but as yet, no conclusions have been reached.
36.       To address the production and financial problems of the banana
industry, and based on the recommendations of the management audit of BANCO
conducted in 1983, the Government has adopted a strategy which would
earmark large contiguous banana-growing areas with yields potentially in
excess of 9 tons per acre (compared to an average of 2 tons for the
industry) for export; this would enable economic provision of irrigation as
well as disease and pest control services. Medium and small holder
production on marginal land would be diverted to the production of bananas
for the domestic market and of other crops. BANCO presently operates 29
public boxing plants; another 11 are privately owned. BANCO has now
adopted a phased program to close inefficient boxing plants and upgrade the
remainder, as well as divesting banana growing and input supply activities
to the private sector. It is expected that these actions, coupled with
recent large investments in banana growing projects directed at the export
market, should lead to a substantial increase in production for export over
the next five years.
37.       Extension.  MINAG presently provides agricultural extension
services only to small farmers and mainly for food crops and livestock; it
is inadequately staffed and equipped at present to reach large numbers of
farmers. Five of the EMOs (sugar, bananas, coffee, citrus, and coconuts)
maintain their own crop-specific extension services, also inadequately
staffed. As noted above, the Government is taking steps to centralize the
extension service in MINAG, although the commodity organizations would
retain crop specialists. The Government is also receiving assistance from



- 12 -
the United Kingdom to upgrade and strengthen the service. The proposed
project would support crop specialized activities in CGA and CIDCO.
38.       Research.  In addition to MINAG, some EMOs, certain public
corporations, and regional and international institutions conduct
agricultural research. Broadly, MINAG and the EMOs carry out applied
research responding to specific, short-run problems, while other
institutions perform basic research. In the past, not much of the applied
research program has been implemented due to a poorly organized R & D unit
in MINAG, an unmotivated professional staff, and insufficient reseach funds
allocated to the research units in the EMOs. As one of the actions
initiated under the structural adjustment program, the Government is
planning to transform the well-run Sugar Industry Research Institute (SIRI)
into a national organization, which would be responsible for all
agricultural research in Jamaica. The proposed project would supplement
research efforts by financing adaptive research on ad hoc production
problems in existing export crops and studies on the feasibility of new
export crops.
Agricultural Credit
39.       Jamaica's financial institutions include (a) a central bank, Bank
of Jamaica (BOJ); (b) 9 commercial banks with 150 branches; (c) merchant
banks; (d) trust companies; (e) building societies; (f) small cooperative
banks in rural areas (People's Cooperative Banks); (g) a mortgage bank; and
(h) development finance institutions. There are also a number of other
Government agencies which at one time were responsible for specialized
agricultural programs (see para. 41 below). The Bank of Jamaica (BOJ) is
responsible for the issue of currency. It keeps the government's accounts
and provides advice on financial policy formulation, and regulates and
provides clearing facilities to the commercial banks. It also administers
foreign exchange reserves and executes monetary policy decisions which must
be agreed with the Minister of Finance. Commercial banks are mainly
locally owned but still retain strong ties with their present or past
parent institutions in Canada, England and USA. About 10% of their
portfolios are in mortgage loans to selected clients secured either by
residential properties valued at least 25% above the loan amount, or by
tangible business assets valued 50% or more over the loan. As of September
30, 1983, the commercial banks' outstanding loans for agricultural
activities amounted to J$279 million, representing 12% of the overall loan
portfolio. Commercial bank credit for agriculture has been directed
primarily at large farms on terms never exceeding five years. The banking
system had high levels of liquidity during most of 1982, because of a rapid
increase in deposits. Towards the end of the year and in early 1983
liquidity declined as the rate of growth of deposits. This situation
continued until late 1983, when higher liquidity ratio requirements were
introduced. Further restrictions on credit were introduced in January
1984, with a ceiling on expansion of credit to the private sector of 12% in
1984, excluding lending by the ACB and the National Development Bank.
40.       The People's Cooperative Banks (PCBs) were first established in
Jamaica in 1905. Their members are mainly small and medium-sized farmers
who subscribe to the share capital of the banks. Many of the PCBs are
under capitalized and generating losses. The Government has placed a high



- 13 -
priority on restucturing these institutions to meet the needs of the small
farmer, and the ACB is currently conducting audits of 40 of the strongest
PCBs, financed under the FY82 Technical Assistance Loan. These 40
institutions would serve as the main retail window for small farmer credit
finaiced under a recently approved IDB/IFAD loan.
41.       Until recently, f.armers had access to agricultural credit from a
variety of sources: the commercial banks; the Jamaica Development Bank
(JDB), which granted loans either directly to farmers or through the
Self-Supporting Farmers' Development Program (SSFDP); the Agricultural
Credit Board which granted loans either directly to farmers or through the
PCBs; MINAG, either through the Crop Lien Program or through its Land Lease
Program; certain EMOs; and non-baik sources such as traders or suppliers.
MINAG and the Government-owned financial institutions were major sources of
credit in the sector; the repayment performance under these programs was
uniformly poor. The Government initiated a number of reforms in the
agricultural credit system beginning in 1981. The JDB, which had become
insolvent, ceased its operations except for collections, and MINAG
abolished most of its credit programs. The Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB)
was established to operate as a wholesaler and to channel credit to medium-
and large-scale farmers through commercial banks and to small-scale farmers
through selected PCBs. Agricultural credit operations of the Agricultural
Credit Board and the EMOs were discontinued (with the exception of an
externally-financed program administered by the CIB). An ACB interest
rate policy was established which entailed provision to small farmers of
credit at 12% (through an IDB/IFAD loan) and provision of other
agricultural credit at 15% through the proposed project and other sources
of financing.
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
42.       Bank involvement in the agricultural sector started with two
agricultural credit projects - Loan 719-JM in 1970 and Loan 1004-JM in
1974. The two credit projects were aimed at the medium-sized commercial
farmer. Demand for subloans, relatively strong under the first project,
declined to a virtual standstill under the second. As noted in the Project
Completion Report, the economic climate became so unfavorable during the
implementation of the second project that returns to investments in
agriculture became very low or negative; at the same time project
management was adversely affected by the executing agency's (Jamaica
Development Bank) acute administrative problems. The repayment performance
of project beneficiaries for the US dollar-denominated subloans was also
seriously affected by a devaluation in 1978. Severe manpower constraints
in MINAG were principally responsible for a slow start in implementation of
the ongoing First Rural Development Project, Loan 1464-JM of October 1977
($15 million). However, the project picked up momentum and has progressed
well; it is now close to completion. The Sugar Rehabilitation Project,
Loan 1517-JM of June 1978 ($18.0 million), has suffered from the country's
overall economic difficulties and from the specific problems of the
industry. The project was reoriented in 1981 to focus on the maintenance
of existing facilities and strengthened technical assistance. The
financial difficulties of the National Sugar Company (NSC), the holding
company for Government-owned sugar factories and the executing agency for
the project, are being addressed by the Government's action program for the



- 14 -
subsector. The Forestry I Project, Loan 1716-JM of December 1979
($12.0 million), is progressing relatively well; moderate managerial and
financial problems, however, led to an in depth review of the project,
currently underway. Agricultural sector issues have also been addressed in
the context of the Bank's structural adjustment lending; the proposed
project is complementary to SAL I and II (Loans 2105-JM and 2315-JM).
PART IV - The Project
43.       The project was identified by the Bank in September 1981 and
prepared by the FAO/CP Investment Center. A preparation report was
presented to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Bank in October 1982 which
formed the basis of the project appraisal in November 1982. Negotiations
for the proposed loan took place in Washington in June 1983. The Jamaican
delegation was led by Mr. Harold Milner, Financial Secretary. Annex III
contains a timetable of key events in processing the project and a
description of the special conditions of the proposed loan.
Project Objectives
44.       The overall objectives of the project are to help expand
production and promote marketing of export crops by providing credit,
necessary support services and infrastructure. It is directed at
supporting the achievement of a significant expansion of export crop
production within a relatively short time, in order to increase foreign
exchange earnings and create new employment. In addition, the project
would assist in the establishment of ACB as a sound financial institution,
strengthen MINAG and provide needed technical assistance to key EMOs.
Project Description
45.       The project would seek to achieve the stated objectives over five
years by providing:
(a) medium- and long-term farm credit to export crop farmers to
be channelled through ACB and the commercial banks;
(b) infrastructure, including upgrading and improving boxing
plants and port facilities for banana shipping; shed and
storage facilities in airports; plant protection facilities;
and production and processing facilities for cigar tobacco;
(c) technical assistance to strengthen research and extension
activities, to build up a plant protection advisory unit, to
support project management, and to strengthen MINAG, ACB and
the EMOs;
(d) market studies, promotion and feasibility studies for export
crops, and adaptive research on problems affecting export
crop production;
(e) training of agricultural managers, technicians and
professionals.



- 15 -
46.       The crops that would be supported by the project are sugarcane,
bananas, citrus, Blue Mountain coffee, coconuts, cigar tobacco, ornamental
horticulture and vegetables. The credit component of the loan would
initially be restricted to these crops, although other export crops and
activities might be subsequently included subject to investigation with
regard to economic viability and market prospects.
The ACB
47.       Responsibility for providing credit to the project participants
U          would be vested in ACB.  With the exception of the externally-financed
CIDCO program and the Export Development Fund, ACB would be the only
Government source of agricultural credit; this policy would be maintained,
unless otherwise agreed, during the execution of the proposed project
(Section 4.05, Loan Agreement). ACB was incorporated in June 1981 with an
initial capital of J$0.6 million. Under its charter, the ACB can advance
or lend money for establishment, development or expansion of enterprises by
participating in share capital, or giving loans to organizations or
individuals involved in agricultural or agroindustrial enterprises.
Although ACB has a wide mandate, its role, for the time being, is confined
to wholesaling funds through financial intermediaries. This strategy was
adopted to avoid the difficulties encountered by the JDB in the
administration and collection of its agricultural loans. ACB has also been
better staffed and organized; it has a total staff of 122, 81 of whom are
professionals. The senior staff have wide commercial banking experience
and significant exposure to agriculture lending. Additional expertise in
loan appraisal will be developed by the training program supported by the
proposed project.
48.       During the first year of its life, ACB's lending operations were
limited. The resulting initial losses are expected to be substantially
reduced the following year (FY84) when ACB began to expand its lending; in
FY85, ACB is projected to generate a surplus. Commitments to commercial
banks in FY84 are expected to amount to about J$22 million; another J$10
million is in the pipeline. ACB's main sources of funding during the next
two years include: cash and assets from the SSFDP, which is being
transferred to ACB from JDB; loans from IDB and USAID (in addition to the
proposed Bank loan); and Government interest-free loans amounting to J$70.0
million. This financial structure would enable ACB to maintain a long-term
debt equity ratio below 4:1 during the period of the loan (Section 4.03,
Project Agreement). This ratio is considered appropriate in view of the
concessional nature of ACB's liability structure. The operating manual for
ACB was reviewed and agreed at negotiations and approved by the ACB Board
of Directors on July 22, 1983.
Credit
49.       The credit component of the proposed loan is about US$8.6 million
and would finance a portion of the foreign exchange costs of the subloans
extended by ACB via commercial banks to farmers. It would be onlent by the
Government to ACB in Jamaica dollars at the exchange rate prevailing on the
date of disbursement on the same terms as the Bank loan. Execution of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and the ACB would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(a), Loan Agreement). The



- 16 -
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk, and would provide
counterpart funds of US$12.3 million to ACB as equity. The Bank loan and
Government counterpart funds would be onlent to approved commercial banks
at 12% (Section 2.03(d) of the Project Agreement). Approval of commercial
banks by ACB would be based on appropriate registration and staffing.
50.       The commercial banks would onlend to farmers at 15% (Section
2.03(d) of the Project Agreement), providing the banks with a spread of 3%,
an amount they consider adequate. These rates would be reviewed annually
and could be revised as experience is gained with the performance of
individual commercial banks and to take into account market fluctuations
(Section 2.03(e) of the Project Agreement). The subloans would be
denominated in Jamaica dollars with a maturity from 2 to 12 years,
including a grace period on principal repayments of up to 4 years.  ACB
funds would finance an average of 72% of the estimated subproject costs, up
to a maximum of 80% (excluding the cost of land) for any one subproject.
The maximum loan to any single beneficiary would be J$1.0 million. Loans
below J$500,000 would be appraised by the commercial banks and reviewed and
approved by ACB; loans above J$500,000 would be jointly appraised by ACB
and the commercial banks. Loans above US$200,000 would be subject to Bank
approval (Schedule 1, para. 5, Loan Agreement).
51.       The financial internal rate of return (IRR) will be calculated
for all subprojects and the economic rate of return (ERR) for all projects
over J$500,000. ACB's minimum acceptable financial and economic rates of
return are 12%. A financial analysis of production unit models
representing the eight project crops suggested that the IRR for the
subprojects would range from 13% to over 50%, and farmers would be able to
service their debt at the proposed terms. The commercial banks will have
responsibility for supervision of their subprojects and for keeping ACB
informed of progress in execution. The Government would take the necessary
measures to ensure the availability of foreign exchange for the purchase of
farm inputs (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement). The signing of
agreements satisfactory to the Bank between the ACB and at least two
commercial banks would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
Infrastructure
52.       Approximately US$2.5 million (excluding contingencies) of the
proposed project would finance the following infrastructure and on-farm
investment:
(a)   Bananas:  boxing plant upgrading, improvement of wharf
facilities in Port Antonio, and equipment. Disbursement
for improvement of the wharf facilities would be conditinal
upon the presentation to the Bank of proof of BANCO's
ownership or a long-term lease contract for the facilities
(Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the Loan Agreement). The
facilities would be constructed and operated by BANCO.
Loan funds would be transferred to BANCO on the same terms
as the Bank loan, in Jamaica dollars at the exchange rate
prevailing on the date of disbursement (Section 3.02(a) of
the Loan Agreement). The Government's program for the



- 17 -
rehabilitation of the banana industry would be executed on
a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.04 of the
Loan Agreement).
(b)   Cigar Tobacco:  construction of an additional fermenting
house, and on-farm investments in irrigation facilities and
drying barns. The on-farm investments would take place on
TICA-owned land; the land and facilities would be leased to
farmers. Leasing is recommended in this case, since the
investments are high and beyond the reach of individual
9                            tobacco growers, who are usually landless and unable to
obtain credit. Present lease conditions are satisfactory'.
Infrastructure would be constructed and operated by TICA.
Loan funds would be transferred to TICA on the same terms
as the Bank loan, in Jamaica dollars at the exchange rate
prevailing on the date of disbursement (Section 3.02(a) of
the Loan Agreement).
(c) Air- and Seaport Services: construction of plant
quarantine facilities as well as shadehouse and temporary
cold storage facility for vegetables and flowers at the
Kingston Airport. This infrastructure would be constructed
and operated by MINAG.
Technical Assistance and Training
53.       The project would provide $3.7 million for technical assistance,
including 338 man-months of consultant services, vehicles, and office
equipment, to strengthen extension services, to provide additional specific
professional services to EMOs, and to support the project management unit
(described in para. 59 below). The extension work would be complementary
to the credit program, providing field guidance to project beneficiaries in
their execution of the crop rehabilitation and expansion program.
Specialists in the following areas would also be financed: agricultural
credit, banana packing, plant protection, citrus processing, tobacco
processing, and plant quarantine. Detailed terms of reference for the
consultants have been prepared by MINAG and were agreed at negotiations.
Project management would ensure adequate availability of local counterpart
staff for all consultants.
54.       Emphasis would be placed on technical and managerial training, to
be provided locally or overseas for MINAG, key EMOs and the ACB. In order
to alleviate the shortage of local managers, the project would provide
intensive mid-level management training for five to six months for staff
from MINAG, the EMOs, other agricultural institutions and the private
sector. The Training Division of MINAG, in cooperation with the
Administrative Staff College, would be responsible for organizing the
management training course. In addition, the Project Management Unit
(PMU), with the assistance of the Training Division, would provide short
courses and seminars on technical subjects related to export crops
production, including plant protection, quality control and product packing
and transport, to MINAG and EMO staff, agricultural managers and farmers.
Finally, fellowships will be available for selected individuals for
graduate study in Jamaica or abroad on topics related to export



- 18 -
agriculture. The project would finance adaptive research and studies to
support export crop development. Project costs for training, research abd
studies are estimated at US$1.3 million.
Project Cost and Financing
55.       Total project cost is estimated at US$40.5 million, (excluding
the capitalized front end fee), with a foreign exchange cost of US$24.5
million. The tax element is minimal in total costs, as the project would
benefit from the tax incentive program.  No physical or price contingencies
were computed for the line of credit. Physical contingencies allowances
for other components vary from 3% to 12% (depending on the nature of the
cost item) of the baseline costs. Price contingencies were calculated in
US dollar terms based on forecasted international inflation rates of: 7.5%
for 1984; 7.0% for 1985; and 6.0% for 1986 and onward. The proposed Bank
loan of US$15.1 million to the Government of Jamaica would cover 37% of
total project costs. The foreign exchange component of the project is 61%
of total costs. 40% of the project costs would be financed by the
Government and 23% by participating farmers. Project costs and the
financing plan are provided in the loan and project summary. The indirect
foreign exchange costs not covered by the Bank loan will be met in part by
an ongoing CIDA line of credit for fertilizers in the amount of C$15
million (about US$12.5 million) . In addition, the Government is planning
to seek cofinancing from commercial banks for the project.
Procurement
56.       For the noncredit components of the project, equipment with
individual contract values of $85,000 or more (with a total contract value
estimated at $1.9 million) would be purchased by the agencies responsible
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Jamaican
manufacturers would be entitled to a preference of 15% or the applicable
tariff, whichever is lower, in bid evaluation. Local manufacturers are
expected to be in a position to win contracts for small items, with a total
estimated cost of about US$0.5 million. For purchases valued at less than
$85,000 with a total contract value estimated at $1.0 million, "direct
purchase" after obtaining three bids from local or international suppliers
would be allowed. Civil works with an estimated total value of $0.9
million would be carried out by local contractors engaged through local
compeitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. The small size of the civil
works component of the project and adequate availability of local
countractors make it unlikely that non-Jamaican contractors would be able
to compete for bids for civil works, though they would not be excluded from
bidding. Consultants with an estimated total contract value of $3.5
million would be contracted in accordance with Bank guidelines (Schedule 4
of the Loan Agreement).
57.       Project beneficiaries under the credit component would procure
goods and services for their activities through local channels or
international suppliers under commercial bank and ACB procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Efforts would be made to combine such
purchases; if the combined amount exceeds $2.0 million, ICB procedure in
accordance with Bank guidelines would be required (Schedule 4 of the Loan
Agreement).



- 19 -
Disbursement
58.       Disbursements will be made against standard documentation with
the exception of ACB disbursements for farm credit. These disbursements
would be made against statements of expenditure, the supporting
documentation for which would be retained by ACB for later review by
supervision missions. For the credit component, loan funds would finance
100% of direct purchase foreign expenditures or 35% of local expenditures
for machinery and equipment related to sugarcane operations. The loan
would finance 35% of other ACB disbursements for medium and long-term
credit for approved crops.  (Schedule I, para. 1, Loan Agreement).  Since
the ACB two-tier system involves double intermediation, disbursements for
subprojects will be made for expenditures incurred up to 180 days prior to
the receipt by the Bank of ACB's request for approval for financing of the
respective subprojects, in keeping with practices established in similar
Bank operations. (Schedule I, para. 6, Loan Agreement). For the noncredit
components of the project, loan funds would finance 100% of foreign
expenditures or 35% of local expenditures for equipment and vehicles; 100%
of foreign expenditures and 35% of local expenditures for training,
research, studies, and technical assistance; and 35% of civil works costs.
(Schedule I, para. 1, Loan Agreement). Disbursements for retroactive
financing of up to US$250,000 would be permitted for expenditures made
after November 1, 1982 for project planning and management (Schedule 1,
para. 4(a), Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
59.       MINAG would have overall responsibility for project coordination
and management, but it would delegate authority for execution to other
participating agencies and institutions. The highest project authority
would be the Project Board of Management, headed by the Permanent Secretary
of MINAG. Members of the Board would include representatives of relevant
Government departments and the participating agencies. The Board of
Management would make operational and policy decisions and provide guidance
to the project implementation staff. The Project Board of Management would
supervise two main areas: (a) the credit component, under the direct
responsibility of the ACB; and (b) all non-credit project activities, for
which responsibility would be vested in the Commodity Marketing and Credit
Division of MINAG. Day-to-day coordination, administration, updating of
annual planning, adjustment of initially agreed target activities to actual
circumstances, reporting and liaison with the Bank would be undertaken by
the Project Management Unit (PMU), a small unit comprising the project
coordinator and an administrative staff of two reporting to the head of the
Commodity Marketing and Credit Division, who would in turn report to the
Permanent Secretary of MINAG. The PMU would receive support from a number
of units and offices in MINAG as well as from other agencies which are
traditionally responsible for certain activities: the Accounting and
Auditing Section; the Monitoring and Evaluation Section; the Research
Division; and the Training Division.
60.       The Jamaica National Investment Company, a statutory body which
among other functions acts as a management advisor to Government bodies,
would provide support to the PMU by executing the studies. Six EMOs (SIA,
BACO, CIDCO, CGA, CNIB, and TICA) would coordinate infrastructure,
extension and/or research activities related to their specific crop
pending centralization of extension and research. Participation of these



- 20 -
agencies would be governed by contractual arrangements between MINAG and
each agency. Loan funds would be transferred to participating agencies on
the same terms as the Bank loan, in Jamaica dollars at the exchange rate
prevailing on the date of disbursement (Section 3.02(a) of the Loan
Agreement). The signing of such agreements satisfactory to the Bank would
be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(b), Loan Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
61.       Project monitoring would be carried out by the Monitoring and
Evaluation Section of MINAG.  This section would collect and analyze
information on project achievements for comparison with targets, alert
management to problems as they emerge, and provide a basis for an annual
planning exercise. Project evaluation activities would involve periodic
in-depth assessments of the effect of the credit, the support services and
the infrastructure on the production capacity of the project beneficiaries,
and the project's contribution to the national export effort. The MINAG
would submit quarterly repo-rts on all aspects of the project execution to
the Bank (Section 3.05(b), Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Auditing
62.       Two separate accounts would be maintained for the project.  The
first would be related to the credit line and be under the responsibility
of ACB.  ACB would prepare a quarterly report on its own and on commercial
bank activities and send it to the Bank no later than three months after
the end of the quarter (Section 2.04(a), Project Agreement). The second
account for all other project expenditures would be the responsibility of
MINAG through the PMU and would be maintained in the accounting section of
MINAG. This account would record PMU's own project expenditures as well as
the expenditures of each participating agency, except ACB. The account
would be audited annually by Government auditors according to standard
Government practice, which is satisfactory to the Bank. ACB (for the
credit component) and MINAG (for the other components) would forward
audited accounts to the Bank within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year
(Section 4.02(b), Project Agreement; Section 4.01(c)(ii), Loan Agreement).
Economic Justification
63.       The economic rate of return for the directly productive aspects
of the project has been estimated at 21%.  The cost stream used in the
economic evaluation of productive activities includes the following costs:
(a) incremental operating costs and all investments on farms; (b)
investments in infrastructure and services (technical assistance, research,
studies and training) needed to support the project's agricultural
production activities and incremental operating costs directly related to
these services during the project implementation period; and (c) recurrent
costs of services and maintenance of infrastructure necessary to sustain
project development, after the five years of project implementation.
Since infrastructure and services would serve the entire export crop
industry, rather than only the crop area directly involved in the project,
the cost stream includes only 50% of project costs for infrastructure,
training and studies, technical assistance, research, and maintenance. The



- 21 -
internal rate of return thus covers 78% of total project costs. The
benefit stream includes all the net incremental production from the project
to be sold in the market, phased according to the expected timing of farmer
participation in the project. It is estimated that the incremental
production arising from the proposed project could be easily absorbed by
existing export markets. In the case of Blue Mountain coffee, however,
several development projects are planned or underway, which if executed,
might depress prices in the Japanese market unless other markets of similar
strength are developed. Accordingly, since other market possibilities
exist, it was agreed at negotiations that CIB would prepare a plan
satisfactory to the Bank for the marketing of Blue Mountain coffee by July
31, 1984 (Section 4.06, Loan Agreement). The proposed project is expected'
to generate annually at full development some half a million working days,
equivalent to about 2,000 permanent jobs.
Project Risks
64.       The project faces a number of risks.  Risks involving weather,
pests and diseases would be diminished by providing farmers with advisory
services and by rebuilding the plant protection service of the banana
industry. Technological and production risks, arising from the shortage of
basic farm inputs such as fertilizers and chemicals would be reduced by
recent measures to increase the availability of foreign exchange.
Institutional risks, stemming from the inefficiency of some of the
commodity boards and other agencies would be reduced through the provision
under the project of technical assistance for institutional strengthening.
Furthermore, the efficiency of the institutions would be closely observed
during supervision and, if necessary, specific measures would be taken to
assist them in overcoming difficulties. Delays in disbursements of the
credit component of the project might arise as a consequence of unfavorable
economic developments and the inexperience of the ACB and the commercial
banks. These risks would be addressed through close supervision by Bank
staff and technical assistance to the ACB. Finally, there are marketing
risks, arising from unforeseen changes in the international market
situation. While it is anticipated that most of the incremental production
arising from the project could be absorbed into existing export markets,
the proposed project would support improved market intelligence and would
finance studies and promotional efforts directed at diversifying and
expanding existing export markets.
PART V - Legal Instruments and Authority
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between ACB and the Bank, and the Report on the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Additional
conditions for loan effectiveness would be execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and the ACB; the signing of agreements
satisfactory to the Bank between MINAG and other participating agencies
setting forth the terms and conditions for providing funds for research,
infrastructure and extension services; and the signing of a standard loan
agreement between ACB and at least two commercial banks. Other special
conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 22 -
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - Recommendation
67.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments                                    by Moeen Qureshi
Washington, D.C.
April 26, 1984



-23 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
T A B L E 3A
JAMAICA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Ta
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTL4ATE) /b
b  RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCCOE
1960-       1970    ESTIMATE-    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB               EUROPE
AREA (TROUSAND SQ. Rl)
TOTAL                                 11.0        11.0         11.0
AGRICULTURAL                           4.9         4.9          4.7
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    410.0       710.0       1180.0             2088.2                    2453.6
ENERGY CONSUNPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       654.0      1405.0      1440.0              1407.6                    1580.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    1629.0       1877.0      2194.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         33.7        37.2        41.9                65.9                      47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               3.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                               2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        148.2       170.P       197.6                35.6                      82.0
PER SQ. EM. AGRI. LAND            332.4        387.0       462.1                93.2                    157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                           41.7        47.0        40.1                40.1                      31.9
15-64 YRS                           54.0        47.5        53.9                55.8                      60.9
65 AND ABOVE                        4.3          5.6         6.0                 4.1                       7.2
POPULATION CROWTN RATE (%)
TOTAL                                1.5/c       1.4/c       1.4/c               2.3                       1.6
URBAN                                2.5         2.4         2.5                 3.7                       3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          39.4        35.3        28.9                31.5                      25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           9.4         7.6         6.3                 8.1                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.6         2.6         1.8                 2.0                       1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TtiOUS)            ..        19.3        27.0/d
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        98.0         99.0        87.0               113.0                     108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        94.0       111.0       119.0               111.3                     129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            58.0        67.0        64.0                67.9                      92.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          28.0        33.0        34.0/e              34.1                      34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            3.1         1.2         0.3                 5.3                     10.4
HELTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         64.2        68.6         71.2               64.6                      67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         51.5        32.2        16.2                62.6                      71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               20.9/h      62.0        86.0/d              64.8
URBAN                               64.67W     100.0       100.o7T              77.8
RURAL                                5.77ii     48.0        79.07o              44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        94.0        94.O/d              54.6
URBAN                                 ..       100.0       loo.67;[             69.8
RURAL                                 ..        92.0        91.07;              29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2590.0       2640.0      2830.0              1776.0                    1094.8
*                           POP. PER NURSING PERSON              420.0/k    1730.0        630.0             1012.2                     762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              240.0       240.0       260.0/f             477.0                     334.0
URBAN                             200.0/g      220.0          ..               667.5                     216.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..           ..             1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        17.0        19.0/f              27.2                      20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                3.9         4.3
URBAN                                2.7          ..
RURAL                                4.8          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                1.9         1.6
URBAN                                1.6          ..           ..
RURAL                                2.0          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 .           ..



- 24-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
I PB LE   3A
JAMAICA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WIHIITED AVERAES) /s
MOST                       (MOST RECENT CSSOtATE) /b
___  lb  RECENT/b  MIDDLE INCCHC            MUDDLE InCoU
1960/-b     1970/   ESTIATb         LAT. AMERICA & CAMIB              MOPE
DUCATION
ADJUSTFD ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    92.0        119.0         99.0               105.0                     102.2
MALE                     92.0       119.0         98.0               106.3                     107.2
FEMALE                   93.0       119.0        100.0               103.6                      97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    45.0         46.0        57.0                40.0                       56.5
MALE                     44.0        46.0         54.0                38.6                      63.4
FEMALE                   46.0        45.0         60.0                41.2                      48.9
VOCATIONAL (1 OF SECONDARY)            9.)          5j.5         2.3/i              34.0                      22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             56.0         47.0         41.0                30.7                      24.7                           0
SECONDARY                           21.0         26.0        22.0/1               16.7                      22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE Cl)               81.9         95.4         90.0                79.5                      69.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            20.3        38.5                             45.6                      52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          90.2        266.4       331.0               228.2                      165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               7.0        37.3         76.9               108.3                     124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              62.0        113.6         59.6                64.1                      96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA                                  0.2/f               2.9                       2.9
LABOR FOR"E
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            607.0        634.0        809.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    37.2         38.8        39.9                24.8                       34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               39.0         29.5        21.4                 31.3                      40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  24.9         25.6        25.2                23.9                       23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               37.3         33.8        36.9                 31.3                      42.0
KALE                                48.7         42.4        45.2                49.8                       55.2
FEMALE                              26.7         25.6        28.9                14.8                       29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2          1.6          1.2                 1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENIT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5X OF HOUSEHOLDS            30.2/ .2.
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS           61.27          ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              2.277                                          ..
LOWEST 401 OF HOUSEHOLDS              8.27                                          .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                        501.0/0             289.8
RURAL                                                       439.07e             184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                        585.0/e             519.8
RURAL                                                       509.07e             372.1                      409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POvERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN
RURAL                                                         80.0/e
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmettc means.  Coverage of countries amore the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, -Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Dta for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for Most Recent Estimate' between 1979 and 1981.
/c Due to migration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1975; /e 1977; /f 1974; 1j 1962;
/h Percentage of housing units with piped water; /i 1976; /i 1958; 1k 1963.
mIy 1983



- 25-                                                                             ANNNEX I
Page 3 of 6
eaten:  sjthoogh the dots ate dcoen tea  sorcs  srily judgedl th -es   -h-oessioe and ra ie, itsol  also b-  no-ted  that they say not hetoeotaai
cIeehe  eas  of the.lackIof standardize  defintion   an  cocpssed           7dfestcutrie  Lo c tietiof the data.  The detente, nonetheless,.. usful to
ma enfrencefeuny  tee  t) th  tone couty group of the tab ject nootreyland (2) a  uate..ty gluap slth tJ._t_theoearIooeta  theteote  ge..op of the
elctcuty fencePt illlo  Orse   ilOtt           tes  rup  bte'idn  insonrt   ectead  uoi   ac    a  hse   e aneofse h.eaco-etP                                   a
Hen  ha   aeFurto  tn          Ste      tec  the  Voetag  or coonnete  osno 1thetoatee dr dsed   nthe aolbln    tdr  e   entoitg   etn   orh
soerrised toeite    ncae   foe tdi-ator he another.Ths  a                       h.ae  ar   nyoeotI nprn   henleo   n    lndttoenthe oet   heoete   t
ARIA (thoogan.d tq.kt.I .uahnprPtsca )uoaso   tte   ytse   fpatre
1970 sod 1900 dato.                                                   1y6npoIot                            e  tfoclalne e--sn  - dPopoh-nlno dtne  by- tbo  of paotth
Artcal tora-- Itioty  f a                1hc Idtoa -s coe  teyooLly0   eraeny cdndfs    grduteouse,  sistantb nurses  prcIca p                                        srtitian
ARti..1t.-I                                                                                                P-P.I.Ii.. di~~~~~~~or a,  ndenaildiidd  y hecdase bt y rusher of  bept-a,bed
lihO, 1970, aod hfd 1..data,y                                                         by at least lste phytlchut. Illo.. i.h...tepodifrIniaycstda
peoaryperg  Ire-l en -hgktte, pe,tenl eleon     toa  ha  are hye-   tls                           sttt,nee   iof,at.   bo    fe   tptetaodhe    n
1970 1990,  ed 1t0  ao                                                                             ea   uytl   nld   osrrohs/ree   aptl,adcr
Totl eultIo.  td-sar(tootnd) -he  f  oiy1;iSb, 070  an  101              O     tito Ipee ba-yttl ted - totsl. uobhar of dtaos  to rdiooei
data.E                                                                                             feoTs(S   h-GNesplpi.ouls- -,1 dtnhdad byth toheirl oftbeds.blI   .p,    t
1960eg 1970 oto i lb,190   nd101dt. 98ueieno  ootul   eeen  prhosbld    ttl ubn  ed rffd
yo1oisnlee PromotIons                                                    -~~~~~~~~b A1 b':'hId" consist -fagoyo  tndbi ttidtoel-  nad tee p Otnipog qasterl
totl pptitty       nbyae.n.so.n  tec  neogtyndfethiyth  hoell  faWtotshri    prpse,f                                                              PYIl.(Itb      .i.
ass      -itg idagtneI   fstlg locrin tOf mon [..eI  and S oYt:l fle-l                   es  toI fiat.rlrtny      . Ipcettof deliags -f   ta,are.od  oa
plann IIngpeuruc.   ohrusr   o  htaotnd  n   f hs   in                                           pnetor       ldsito id.lcrliytnlnn   qatrsarar tg
96h0     atnto,aral 9nd70tltytansfr  r)etcuprdss                                                of9totld*tonan. on  cora  .deaiifiog      ltceeettni.FI t.         1
dec1P  .lnetoihecelaos MdYltleeh  f  otno-retoooho  rt,  hledlse                                             h.t., - I tal, ae  anLI   al-rssttl  sl   ndfsl
esot fenerstion  of snore reylac - itself  Jcscly.1   90   90 The stt 8boot                    itrltm lc of sid   bye  a the p``erisarf boe. n  ectagso.eeet.
yd-atoheaetstdontebsno  h   ejced.ehracfr-pehac  sHool-agl RedpolTti1ont                                                                b   Ifual   dortodeg  thilee  agd-h-Il
tois  ftel ...nlatlf tothe pea  7000.  und-b  the rte-o pOplritn.f-yashtojaedfrdfeotiotsofrlaystah;o
dfertilty  rat l!iti- rIflaat     leen.                                                           roneleffh-nlne.a.edpalonobilits  ayesoId  00peteo
_sasttluac  pneoottn  itO nuce      h   trahnosltr                                                  hor   esppl   e  btno   ho                  ofca   colae
tota  ece; lbe,190,1nd  90  data.thuIltaooyof12t  17 years. of lage,coYrrepader  ooocsos are
yet  el. Ito isc icltrl  lan   -       iso tod asionfo   g atora  hand                            generally cgcioded
onl; itO  1970 el, t90  da.... lifocpet ioolonletIect   tscnay       natnltotate
Yarlatio  Ahe Ptroctart Iyerfeut)li- fhtldo   (0-1  yeo thee),oc log-ag1.    )                     ..ol.d tPll        oderal   r  te  porssein   prae,d-ed
tO=yars)  sd-lentIce ftliptry  an..      e)aspr..oaao odid-moe                                  early.or at dePA tfttents of   2 seodaylositottt.
Porolrto  Crstb bate (Ecocoh -  totl i- oto--lgedot  raeIf tende cIl-                            Inte  end aenar  leoi idu.e  by itoee    fsetor   n  h  re
osot poyuintloo for 1950-to, tOtI-PI, aed 1970f-tI p-t.teopof1c  -bel...d-                                        -j.
nratlo   forh 10-hO.  iRhq-1 t. an-d17i0.t  te    d.1 thn                               EUATIOecNogoftaldotrpattaed1yasanso.
fedstirbbaeIertostd,               dua    hles redh  peey fthooltoodliof Acdtd-.-Ut
yase popolattoI                             repn; llbfri,y   h.1970,Z  -and 0901. 1.  ura,                                                    ttflO..O..ydiOol
.cdZsoh  baLte. (pe  abosd -plnnual dsoto pe ....      ouoood. of.ld-ea                                        Ifteueo  ar   (ottosand. enroistOnal -_ Pasege  tars .f  --
oIltoina  i9l,  90 endi9tedl dta.I.ll h.etor-aP  rytotls  than n                                                             ...igh   esn;  oldgadohlasce, beaerstt
GrssOsruacf    r at-aocgtohe-r of00deng  hnersaotasIf  li bae  ha                                sh_tttryblolrs.d                                                    ; . :  t.    ,
fetility  sates  usualy lte-y...   ourags  edtoto190,  97,  ndhrodots                                            gnrl pbi  peei Ihosn  of ppulaIon -edolode pert
fatl  rlota-cet         or.a, wm .   ouleIthedtandh.  -ee  hrnua  rashery ofacetos.a                    . o   inefc;  aaCreco    er systh  tso                         saese
ofhrhrnrldvin    neasect  futuo   el  piantn duotrsssolhhc   bielsn.                                                                      t
prPolticuDe.                                                                                   tahcles  r  totodpettyo                       Org finert foe1 bodas  t
Pasil  Ploig-sr   pecn;t  aee  uon  ki P. er (Oehttgr of  Iarhe                                 Inorl  otirpe  tooa                yoolttn;seloe  snio bnse    t....cadoro
soso  f  tnd-eair  ae  15-4  eas)eo  ae   ith-out    Orioc                               ncomlnadI   er   hecgartn  f  fPoettaPu   to effectJ.P
oitane'      ce  i   00aegoy I96attcecerP"d firo..lo  lee  tho Isand  hncoltniin  - Oh -a the                                                                     _ fnag
yetcc do?, raItI   _       I d                                                                     ctro)oicn.ll of  doll  geeat      oeeonnppe   eie   oaproia
snore lyrndortio_  uf oll. fud-cuoit   Prdutin  oLL-1n- soo.ad                                    to ha  doly'fi  appears at lee- ou.iseasek
cfen nud mu ored eoclndeo)agregue codoth    o               ouc -cuutrIs                     nehlod unts.ti-,Ithpe e   de-
darn.                                                               ldAOa~~~~~~~-tl POll  .-1t-Y
er cpit   nyyo   ooit(enn  o   norana      opcOto                                               failtaleho.cb   c  (tooad)           uS Iclratie pesoc  toldagire
enee  qlale  o   etfn  ouplin  sAi.lal g-ho coutry pe  eslits  efrensl  oneodlped hu   dnloddl                                            byog   .r foseos  ssnestho  etc. cono
,enrts, and. chage  it. stuck,I bat, sopld 197clade aa lfe,set                                    aPa.be   9l   90ad19   aa
quac1ti..e  oo I.th  food ycp ooostot  and- -lntsr-i  dlo.teho-tiou.lb                                  d               eselbo   oo   spcceeeogoetlbrfe
OCqoPIreseto-f- acre   60 e 1960ot 0d -y 1u97sdony0 snogtalO oefu1o                              Ad.ll li.llY'I,(gryl)    ao  eatro  I  fanto,  forIesty   ota   n
octni ty and health  ...ntdeyt-genoh Ifneeututehertoe,hIyfnibt,                                    leio   as    Irnafeo   oa   ao   oc;190   90ad10   aa
aoe and nand dttrbcte   o   e             dnno.tsod a       thoono 1  yeretfo  suide              endoteltgPPlti-eern,  - abrfor         On au      y-0 crston to,  scfr
at. hethlCuel     ;96-h,197  and 190 daeta,Pe  a1.dfONU indecichyeaesdgaasprotgefttlburoc;190
1e9cpia 0opl ofM prtein _or1 pertu)-Povaotn   fptcpt                                          90od19   as
neh apyo   edperas. et  upyo   odi   oteoao                                                    P-co-restio  bate (percent) -F ttal, s        Po.adt..   tPescpntn
-taqlityeo    o  oly fneeo   ealohdb                dpoid   o   hiu                               n itliy ruoss ae  rptda   esl   ae   n   eol   ae   uoa
o81'opoen  ofahch1 gas   holdb  acisol pIItta96                  hes 19b7, 1970,eac  lO tI-  -st,  Tesear  hosedl0  lIpe'syrlteto
stF  eeeambnetatyoo  f75goi floa  pt_ejan   7  cs                                                 colecita  ag-.   o ro.r  of..pe theyfl o  and tba   ttse- trend. iA
peFoeneeuticsney0 a  anima.ond  elts-   Pretrt noply oefundTh e.etocol                                           e tl labo  farce.
data.                                                                                150 00 lOOThleyIIo
rgo  ieoy-4yst  to chleoig_           eag   coIfrsstfrlyo                                      ecer*toet2  perreut, ynirest 2  pecn,nlol                    et4   ereto
coonisdat   ei           rtIf  tablet;...9th1 1970 and 0991 data.                                btaseholdo.
01Ad1.T I  FOOto'P,7AG07 000 t
bIte  upececcy  t niot Ipooca  -   19695  ruhrfrato   if   naon0h)ol o5etIee   r                                                .......ssat  seSor- of- pie-Rttenes
at  leh;190,  97  no  101dat.                                                             hold-odirrpite  oth  gnidrsisoatod
foathotlt  tc   cr hood)-Act1deb  o   osttnc    neOteae   halt   oseyIoselvllosnrtoto     ohnad oa 
yee  o  en  erthonodlIe  icbo  1t0  070en  101doa.Ascltepoery  ooeeleelIsthn  sosolselbetse_oba  ins_
Acesoflt   one(ocato  cpltlt      otl  rbn   u  crl-                       ortnnlysdqaedtoyo  ettentla   no-fn   reoees     t   e
nohe  o  rnye  bot,coe,  ndcoaO  othesotle access to sat                                 elfroal  n.l  e                                                           de
houe.l  I  crlaes           sohId  aces P    no_d_ isptly tht9 heh61st r6odroa -1percentdo1p8polbnlo   dorhn  ad  enrol) Iadoiare 'JbsLote.
th Payf  fechn    LtefoaRyFaORCteds
gycc  oOoee  lrgl(ecn  ofynalttnl-  ot                            d Irhat ond-
I'rll-nagqhtC of ynl  (ttl,oha,an: orl  stre  byl secrete
lehtetan  finilo   tet_allotos                                                                                                                bay 1903. -tb.  16, 90..   98 



-26 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 6
JAMAICA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                 Actual                                              Prel.
current prices) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
1981       1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   1980    1981       1982      1983
FPRICES
GDP Deflator (J$:  1974-100)                121.2   134.0   150.4   189.4   219.6   256.0   274.7    298.4    343.2
Exchange Rate (J$ per US$)                    0.91    0.91    1.25    1.48    1.77    1.78    1.78       1.78     2.30
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__
Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)             Average Annual Increases (%)
(at current prices)                       (at constant 1974 prices)
1976         1981         1986         1990      1976-81   1981-86     1983-90
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a/
Gross Domestic Product           2939.4        100.0         100.0       100.0        100.0     -1.4         2.0         3.1
Agriculture                     223.9          7.8           8.2         8.2          8.2     -1.0         2.5         3.9
Industry                       1015.2         34.6          30.5        31.3         32.9     -3.7         2.9         4.9
Services                       1700.3         57.6          61.3        60.5         58.9     -0.2         1.5         2.4
Consumption                      2621.3         93.0          86.2        78.5         76.4     -3.0        -0.3         1.6
Gross Domestic Investment         625.4         20.5          17.1        21.2         21.4     -4.4         6.9         6.3
Exports GNFS b/                  1409.2         29.6          34.9        37.2         39.5      2.1         3.9         5.2
Imports GNFS b/                  1716.4        -43.1        -38.2        -36.9        -37.3     -3.7         0.9         2.5
Gross National Savings            250.2         10.2           4.3        13.8         18.4    -14.9        30.3        25.6
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__
A.s % of GOP                                 Preliminary
1977/78      1979/80     1981/82     1982/83             1983/84
PUBLIC FINANCE c_/
Current Revenue                               22.0          26.4        27.5        27.6                27.8
Current Expenditure                           28.2          30.6        30.8        31.4               34.7
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                    -6.2          -4.2        -3.3        -3.8               -6.9
Capital Expenditure                           11.3           8.3        12.0        11.4                 8.5
Foreign Finance (net)                          0.7           3.3         9.4         4.7                9.6
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------
a! At market prices.
b/ Based on balance of payments data.
c/ Fiscal year - April/March 31. Figures refer to Central Government operations.
d/ Estimated.
April 1984



- 27 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 6
JAMAICA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1976-81          1981-86           1983-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (%)                            -1.9               1.5             2.5
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (x)                 -2.9               0.5             1.5
ICOR                                          -17.7              10.6             5.5
Marginal Savings Rate                            8.0              8.0            35.2
Import Elasticity                               4.6               0.8             0.8
Annual Growth Rate (%)
(at constant 1974 prices)
Amount           -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Indicator                  (million US$ at                      Actual                                  Est.       Projected
current prices)      ---------------------------------------------          ----------------------------
1981            1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982            1983    1986       1990
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)    974.0                6.6    -7.0      0.9    -2.1      0.8    -13.2         -2.0      8.3       7.8
Bauxite/Alumina                 760.1            17.2      3.6      0.0      7.4     3.3    -29.7        -21.7     8.0       7.2
Sugar/Bananas                    50.8            -6.1    -7.1    -4.6   -32.7   -12.7         14.3       14.7      3.4       8.1
Other                           163.1            -5.5   -31.4       8.6   -10.9    -1.8       26.7        -2.4    12.4       8.9
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)   1457.4               -5.5    -7.3   -11.3   -11.8    12.5    - 0.3           -5.0      2.9       3.9
Food                            101.9           -21.2      2.7   -31.6    -6.4    22.8        24.6        -1.5     0.8       2.7
Petroleum                       488.8             1.4   -14.7    18.5   -17.8    -2.7    -14.0             0.0     4.8       3.2
Capital Goods                   295.2           -14.8    -7.2   -14.6   -21.3    30.5         17.3       -14.9     2.7       2.7
Other                           571.5           - 9.1   -12.9   -21.8    -2.5    13.3         -4.2        -1.8     2.4       4.2
PRICES
Export Price Index a/ (1974-100)  -             154.0   248.6   319.4   380.9   379.1    354.3          466.3   966.4   1297.9
Import Price Index (1974-100)       -           125.7   205.8   310.8   369.7   421.7    396.7          481.4   964.9   1301.1
Terms of Trade Index (1974=100)   -             122.5   120.8   102.8   103.0    89.9         89.3        96.9   100.6      99.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                     Average Annual Increases (%)
(at current prices)                              (at constant 1974 prices)
1960    1970    1975    1981    1986    1990            1971-76  1976-81   1981-86    1983-90
Exports                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              -3.0      -0.9        3.7         7.2
Bauxite/Alumina                      49.3    63.9    60.4    78.1    65.9    65.7               -2.5       5.3      -0.2         6.6
Sugar/Bananas                        31.8    14.5    21.6       5.2      8.1      7.9           -6.0    -13.7        9.7         9.4
Other                                 18.9    21.6    18.0    16.7    26.0    26.4              -3.6      -9.7      11.9        10.0
Imports                               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0               -6.1      -6.5        1.0         3.7
Food                                 16.6    13.5    11.6        7.0     7.7      7.3           -7.2    -10.5        0.3          4.0
Petroleum                              8.3     6.3    19.2    33.5    30.3    33.4             -11.9      -3.9       0.8          4.5
Machinery and Equipment               18.7    29.5    30.9    20.3    21.1    20.0              -7.9      -9.3        0.0         2.8
Other                                56.4    50.7    38.3    39.2    40.9    39.3               -1.7      -6.8        1.8         3.1
a/ J$ Indices                                                                                                     April 1984



- 28 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 6
JAMAICA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions of USS at current prices)
Actual                                   Est.         Projecteda/
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981         1982    1983      1986      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of GNFS                     887.9   967.4  1078.0  1165.2  1361.7  1402.3  1233.2  1305.5   2070.2    3324.6
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.    656.4   750.6   794.5   814.7   962.7   974.0   767.4   772.3   1338.0    2345.0
Imports of GNFS                    1123.5   922.5  1048.1  1220.6  1407.1  1737.3  1629.7  1594.5   2052.7    3150.4
Of which: Merchandise c.i.f.    907.9   756.2   856.6   994.0  1159.6  1457.4  1366.7  1335.0   1682.4    2611.4
Net: Factor Services                -74.0   -93.8  -142.4  -167.2  -212.3  -164.5  -134.2  -256.5   -415.4    -519.5
Net: Transfers                         5.8    20.0    25.7    80.0    90.8   124.3   150.4   148.8    189.7           236.9
Curretnt Account Balance             -303.8   -28.9   -36.8  -142.6  -166.9  -375.2  -380.3  -396.8   -208.2    -108.4
Private Direct Investment c/            -0.6    -7.0   -28.8   -26.4    27.6   -11.5   -15.8    na            na         na
MLT Loans (net)                         79.2    -5.9   178.9    71.1   207.4   240.2   446.0   247.5    175.0           150.0
Othe:r Capital b/                       11.3   -18.1  -201.8   -44.2  -128.8    65.7    38.3    29.3          65.0       75.0
Change in Reserves                    213.9    59.9   138.5   142.1    60.7    80.8   -88.2   120.0    -31.8    -116.6
International Reserves (net)         -116.3  -176.2  -314.7  -456.8  -517.5  -598.3  -510.1  -630.1   -501.8    -175.6
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                 179.5    83.0   112.9   171.7   295.8   473.3   581          394       386        401
Project Loans                      31.2    26.6    42.6    32.0    47.8    38.1    41           41        60         75
Special Financing                   -       10.4   198.8   125.5   139.5   139.4   231         256       125         74
Other Official                     73.0    71.0   -71.0    20.3   135.1    87.3   122           13        13         31
Government Guaranteed              47.0    38.5    23.3    11.5    50.6    38.4    64           84        90       150
Private Direct (net)               -0.5    -7.0   -26.7   -26.4   -11.0    -2.8    na           na       na         na
Lines of Credit (net)               -       11.3    33.6    11.5    -9.2        5.0    na       na       na         na
Other a/                           28.8   -67.8   -87.7    -2.7   -57.0   167.9   123            -        98         71
Official Debt Outstanding           831.8   926.2  1036.1   112.0  1313.6  1769.0  2273    2573           3301       3981
Debt Service: Total Service
Paymentsd/         102.8   159.1   144.6   165.5   177.6   239.4   295          357       516       645
Interest             54.2    66.0    62.2    97.9   126.4   138.1   218          263      341        394
Payments as % of
Exportse/           11.2    16.0    12.8    13.6    12.5    16.4    21.0    25.5           23.7      18.7
(36.7)   (31.3)    (23.3)
Average Interest Rate on New
Loans (%)                           -        -        -       -        -        -      8.3      8.4       8.7        8.4
Averiige Maturity of New Loans
(year)                                                                          -     15.1    15.5      11.7       11.3
a/ Projections on a fiscal year basis April 1 - March 31.
b/ Includes errors and omissions.
c/ Includes payments of interest to IMF but not principal, and excludes rescheduled principal payments.
d/ Includes private debt and unidentified capital flows.
a/ Figures in brackets include refinancing arrangements.
April 1984



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of March 31, 1984
-----US$ million----
Amount
Loan   Fiscal                                              (less cancellation)
No.    Year    Borrower            Purpose                  Bank  Undisbursed
19 loans fully disbursed 1/                                  360.4
1464    1977    Jamaica             Rural Development          15.0       .9
1516    1978    Jamaica Public    Power                        20.0       .7
Service Co. Ltd.
1517    1978    Sugar Industry    Agriculture                  18.0      2.4
Authority
1716    1979    Jamaica             Forestry                   12.0      1.0
1740    1979    Jamaica             Highways                   16.0       .6
1978    1981    Jamaica             Exports Development        37.0      4.6
Fund
2017    1981    Petroleum Co.       Offshore Petroleum          7.5      4.5
Exploration
2070    1982    Jamaica             Third Education             6.8      5.6
2106    1982    Jamaica             Technical Assistance        6.1      3.0
2107    1982    Jamaica             Kingston Export Free       13.5    12.8
Zone
2188    1982    Jamaica             Power                      30.5    27.5
2293    1983    Jamaica             Highway                    15.0    15.0
2294    1983    Jamaica             Industrial Credit          15.1    15.1
2315    1983    Jamaica             SAL II                     60.2    25.4
2320 2/ 1983    Jamaica             EDF III                    30.1    30.1
2389 /  1984    Jamaica             Urban Transport            16.0    16.0
Total (net cancellations)                         598.2
Of which has been repaid                           61.7
Total now outstanding                             536.5
Amount sold                         1.6
Of which has been repaid            1.6             0.0
Total now held by Bank                            536.5
Total undisbursed                                 165.2
1/ Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.
2/ Not yet effective.
3/ Not yet signed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1984
US$ million
Date        Borrower           Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1961   Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.   Pre-mix concrete         0.2        -      0.2
1969   Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.           Tourism                2.2       0.7      2.9
1980   West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.           Glass containers        2.3       -       2.3
1982   Jamaica Flour Mills    Food and food pro-
cessing               5.0        -      5.0
9.7      0.7    10.4
Less cancellations, terminations
participations, sales and repayments          2.4        -       2.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                7.3      0.7      8.0
Total Undisbursed                                0.1       -       0.1



- 31 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Section I          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Loan request made to Bank: September 1981
(b) Appraisal Mission: November 1982
(c) Completion of Negotiation: June 1983
(d) Planned date of effectiveness: June 1984
Section II          Special Bank Implementation Action:  None
Section III   Special Conditions
(1)   Additional conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the
Borrower and the ACB (para. 49);
(b) The signing of agreements satisfactory to the Bank between
MINAG, and the EMOs setting forth the terms and conditions
for providing funds for research, extension and
infrastructure (para. 60);
(c) the signing of a standard loan agreement between ACB and
at least two commercial banks (para. 51).
(ii)   A condition for disbursement for the banana infrastructure
subcomponent would be presentation to the Bank with proof of
BACO's ownership of, or a long-term lease contract, for Port
Antonio wharf facilities (para. 52(a)).



- 32 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(iii)   Other special loan conditions will be:
(a) with the exception of the externally-financed CIDCO
program, ACB would be the only Government source of
agricultural credit during the extension of the proposed
project (para. 47);
(b)  ACB would consult the Bank and get its approval for any
adjustment in lending rates (para. 50);
(c) maximum long-term debt-to-equity ratio for ACB would not
exceed 4:1 during the period of the loan (para. 48);
(d) ACB would seek Bank approval for any loan above
US$200,000; (para. 50);
(e) the CIB would prepare a plan to market the Blue Mountain
Coffee by July 31, 1984 (para. 63);
(f) loan funds would be transferred to the EMOs to carry out
research, extension and infrastructure components of the
projects on the same terms as the Bank loan in Jamaica
dollars (para. 52, 60);
(g) disbursements for retroactive financing of up to $250,000
would be permitted for expenditures made after November 1,
1982 for project planning and management (para. 58);
(h) MINAG would submit quarterly reports on the Project to the
Bank (para. 61);
(i) the Government would take the necessary measures to ensure
the availability of foreign exchange for farm inputs
(para. 51); and
(j) the Government's rehabilitation program for the banana
industry would be executied on a timetable satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 52(a)).



33-                               Annex IV
Page 1 of 2
The Sugar Industry Authority (SIA)
SIA has a monopoly on the marketing of sugar and molasses in both the
domestic and export markets and it is responsible for the Sugar Industry Research
Institute (SIRI). It purchases sugar from the National Sugar Company (NSC), the
Government-owned holding company for six sugar factory which comprise 78% of the
country's capacity, and from private factories. SIA makes recommendations to the
Government on raw sugar and cane prices.
The Banana Company of Jamaica (BANCO)
BANCO was created in 1979 to take over the operations of the Banana
Board and has the monopoly for the export markets of bananas. BACO operates 40
boxing plants, an extension service to growers, a research department funded by
MINAG, a leaf spot control program, of which 50% is funded by MINAG; and a farm
input supply program, as well as some 1,800 acres of banana estates.
The Citrus Growers's Association (CGA)
CGA is an association of growers with statutory powers to regulate
the purchase and marketing of citrus fruit for the export markets; in practice it
has only limited functions. Domestic fresh fruit markets are unregulated but CGA
allocates quotas of fruit for export and for the two processing factories in
Jamaica and fixes prices. It also operates a four-man extension service providing
guidance to citrus growers. The Jamaica Citrus Growers (JCG), a wholly owned
subsidiary of CGA, operates a factory with a diversified line of products, but
fluctuations in fruit supply, combined with processing and management
inefficiencies, and low international prices for citrus products have kept JCG
unprofitable for years. Goverment recently completed a study of CGA and TCG
operations and is considering divestment of the JCG factory.
The Coffee Industry Board (CIB)
CIB has the primary function of quality control and monitoring of
foreign exchange earnings from coffee. All export coffee must pass through CIB's
control, grading and licensing procedures. CIB operates a number of pulping
stations, additional to those owned privately or cooperatively. For development
purposes, CIB has recently established a subsidiary, the Coffee Industry
Development Company (CIDCO), which maintains nurseries and operates as a credit
agency in connection with specific development projects. The field staff of
CIDCO, about 72 in number, is primarily engaged in production activities, loan
servicing and extension to newly developed plantations. CIB is functioning at a
satisfactory level, but needs some strengthening of its management and
organizational structure.



- 34 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 2
The Coconut Industry Board (CNIB)
CNIB regulates the production of copra and its processing into edible
oils and other products. It also establishes prices to be paid to producers and
the selling price of copra. CNIB owns a group of subsidiary companies engaged in
the manufacture of copra oil, other edible oils and fats, margarine, shortening,
soaps, detergents and animal feeds, mainly for the domestic market, and is the
sole refiner of edible oils and fats. Because only a small proportion of coconut
production is now used for copra, CNIB imports about 95% of its raw materials,
mostly as soybean oil. CNIB is funded by a tax collected by its subsidiaries on
products made from copra and imported oil. It is now operating a copra production
acceleration scheme and provides growers with free planting materials and other
illputs.
The Tobacco Industry Control Authority (TICA)
Despite its wide monopoly and regulatory powers under the law, TICA
has limited its activities to the control of cigar tobacco produced by contract
farmers. TICA provides these farmers with facilities, inputs, and extension
services, and it purchases, processes and sells their tobacco to local cigar
manufacturers or for export as raw material. It also operates a small research
station. Cigar manufacturers in Jamaica purchase leaf tobacco from TICA but also
from independent contract farmers and sources overseas.



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                             lARD   16942R D   16 9 4
0500o                                                            7700 or77o                                                                                                                                                      -        -   February 1983
I  M    TH ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ I          S 
o                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~MONTEGO ,CC                                                                          ,+tb                                              
'40 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
W                                                                                        X ; a 0 nT 0 k  f   x  B <T                                                                                                                                                            _ AM E 
T  R  E  L  A ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ~                             2                                            '            I L A    
Railways ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~l.GW
A4      rai     Airports                               CAM AI,,                                                                                                                                                         A T  A   N  N
ee~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ iAir   Aaioe BIroiia                                                  -C                                                                              EX    OR         CR        P        PROJECT  ''   
EXSTN                                                             - . --  Parisni Rauvojerias
.1~~~~~~~,b
-      Monarrtyr Baloeods   r iaevRCL                                                                                                                (\grrr
2:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U Moin Hart                                                                                                        L                                                                   T   L on
---    letrrtinel Boundarica                   00             5          30      13
- R-  -  vnternatlonL                     3 BL2undOrie5   K LOh ETER O  5  ID 0 5    23    25
Oaiio                                                           77 30'                                                            07'00                                                            rA-ze
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



