Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4381-JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
April 26, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Official Exchange Rate
(Through November, 1983)
US$1.00        =     J$ 1.782
J$ 1.00        =     US$0.561
Parallel Market Exchange Rate
Introduced in January, 1983
(Through November, 1983)
US$1.00       =      J$ 2.40  - 2.90
J$ 1.00       =      US$0.345 - p.417
Official Exchange Rate
(November 24, 1983)
US$1.00              J$ 3.00  - 3.30
J$ 1.00              US$0.303 - 0.333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The English system is generally used. However, the metric
system has begun being used in certain cases.
1.0 mile = 1.6 kilometer
1.0 inch = 25.4 milimeter
1.0 acre = 0.4 hectares
1.0 square mile = 2.6 square kilometer = 640 acres
1.0 lb. = 0.45 kilogram
2,205 lbs. = 1.0 ton
All tons in this report are in metric tons.
FISCAL YLERS
Government of Jamaica and ACB: April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB               Agricultural Credit Bank
ACBd             Agricultural Credit Board
BANCO            Banana Company of Jamaica
BOJ              Bank of Jamaica
CARICOM          Caribbean Common Market
CDC              Commonwealth Development Corporation
CGA              Citrus Growers' Association
CIB              Coffee Industry Board
CIDCO            Coffee Industry Development Company
CNIB             Coconut Industry Board
EEC              European Economic Community
EMOs             External Marketing Organizations
FAO              Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
f.o.b.           Free on Board
GBP              Green Boat Price
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD             International Fund for Agricultural Development
ISO              International Sugar Organization
JAMCO            Jamaica Marketing Company
JAS              Jamaica AgriculLural Society
JCG              Jamaica Citrus Growers
JDB              Jamaica Development Bank
JNIC             Jamaica National Investment Company
MINAG            Ministry of Agriculture
NSC              National Sugar Company
0 & M            Operation and Maintenance
PCBs             People Cooperative Banks
PMU              Project Management Unit
PS               Permanent Secretary
R & D            Research and Development
SAL              Structural Adjustment Loan
SIA              Sugar Industry Authority
SIRI             Sugar Industry Research Institute
SSFDP            Self Supporting Farmers Development Program
TC/TS            Ton Cane per Ton Sugar
TICA             Tobacco Industry Control Authority
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND   ..........................................
A.  Recent Economic Development                                      1
B.  Agricultural Sector Role in the National Economy                1
C.  Agricultural Production Conditions and Resources                2
D.  Structure of Agricultural Production             .     .        4
E.  Support Services. . .......... **  ....                         4
F.    Infrastructure   ...................  ........   .............  6
G.  Policy Measures ................... , .................   .     6
H.  Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector                     9
II.  CROP PRODUCTION  ....................  ....  , ....   ..............    10
A.    Sugarcane   ..................                 ......         10
B.    Bananas   .........................                          11
C.    Citrus   .. . . . ... . . .. . . ... . . ..        . ...      12
D.    Blue  Mountain  Coffee   ......................... .........  13
E. Coconuts                 ..........14
F.  Cigar Tobacco .........        ................    14
G. Ornamental Horticulture ...........        .      .15
H. Vegetables   ..15
III. THE EXECUTING AGENCIES ................... .    16
A.  The Ministry of Agriculture                  .. .               16
B.  Agricultural Credit Institutions.......                         16
C.  The Commodity Organizations ............................    17
D.  Jamaica National Investment Company                            20
IV. THE PROJECT .20
A. Introduction..                                                  20
B. Brief Description ..........oo-  .  *-                          21
C. Detailed Features    ..22
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ...                 .     ..........    29
A.  Cost Estimates ............               .. .        .29
B.  Financing.                    .       .........       ...      29
C.  Procurement       .......            .. .............          30
D.    Disbursements   ........................ I...........  .....  31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Jamaica in November 1982. The mission comprised Messrs. P. Ram, J.
Heidebroek (Bank) and B. Drum, D. Flood, A. Golomb, V. Raswant and M. Zur
(Consultants).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....      .................................  32
A.  Coordination and Management .........................          32
B.  Monitoring and Reporting ....   .       ........................  33
C.  Accounts and Auditing ..................................       33
VII.   PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKET AND PRICES ...................          34
A.  Production.             ..      .............. ...... . ..     34
B.  Demand, Market and Prices                          .    .      34
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS......   37
A.  Production Unit Models                                         37
B.  Financial Rate of Return .......37
IX.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....................          38
A.  Benefits and Justification ......           ............       38
B.  Economic Rate of Return    ........................    38
C.      Employment    ..  ..............  .-o..................    39
D.  Project Risks ..... .............. I.....................      40
X.     SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION             40
ANNEXES
1. Research and Studies ............. o ........                         42
2. Suggested Key Indicators for Monitoring        . .............        45
3. Documents Available in Project File . ................                47
SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS
Tables:
1.  Agricultural Exports, 1970-81, and Growth Rates .48
2. Foreign Exchange Earning and Value Added to Selected
Agricultural and Non-Agricultural Products -  1981 .49
3. Agricultural Loans Outstanding by Source as of
December 31, 1981                       ..                           50
4. Agricultural Credit Bank Actual and Projected Balance
Sheet and Projected Income Statement           .51
5.  Phasing of Estimated Crop Rehabilitation and Expansion               53
6.  Technical Assistance Services - Expatriate Consultants               54
7.  Annual Phasing of Project Costs.                                     55
8.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements              ...      .56
9.  Annual Input and Output Coefficients per Acre           ..           57
10.  Summary of Financial Projections and Rate of Return                  58
11.  Costs and Benefits Streams for Economic Analysis                     59



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Charts:
1.  Organization Chart of the Ministry of Agriculture ........     60
2.  Organization Chart of Project Management and Operations ..    61
3.  Implementation Schedule . ........................... ......   62
MAPS
IBRD 16942 - General
IBRD 16943R - Crop Growing Areas






I. BACKGROUND
A. Recent Economic Development
1.01      Throughout the 1950s and 1960s, the Jamaican economy grew at an
impressive rate, averaging 6 to 7% real growth annually. Agriculture,
bauxite, manufacturing, construction and tourist industries were the major
components of the economy. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) reached its peak
in 1973 and fell every year thereafter until 1980, to an accumulated
decline of over 18%. Only in 1981 did GDP again start growing, gaining
3.3% over 1980 and in 1982 gaining 0.2% over 1981. The inflation rate
jumped from 8.1% in 1976 to 49.4% in 1978 reflecting the impact of the
devaluation of the Jamaican dollar and the elimination of subsidies to
certain consumption goods, decreased to 19.8% in 1979, rose to 28% in 1980,
and then had an impressive decline to 4.7% in 1981 and 5.2% in 1982.
1.02      From 1973 to 1982, Jamaica's balance of payments was under
continuous pressure due to poor export performance, reflecting unfavorable
conditions in the international economy as well as the impact of domestic
policies and rising oil prices. As a result, the current account of the
balance of payments showed a deficit every year during the decade, and
there was a severe shortage of foreign exchange to use to import necessary
inputs and basic needs. The trade deficit reached a high of US$476 million
(15% of GDP) in 1981. Jamaica's external debt increased from US$349
million (17% of GDP) at the end of 1973 to an estimated US$1,769 million
(60% of GDP) by the end of 1981.
1.03      The year 1981 was a turning point in the Jamaican economy.  Real
GDP increased by 3.3%, as most major productive sectors grew in response to
the general improvement in business confidence and the increase in the
availability of imports. Despite the deterioration in the current account
of the balance of payments, high levels of official capital inflows enabled
the Government to achieve an overall surplus on the balance of payments of
US$43 million in fiscal year 1981/82.
B. Agricultural Sector's Role in the National Economy
1.04      Although the importance of agriculture in the economy of Jamaica
has declined since the mid-1960s, it still remains an important source of
income, export earnings and employment. In 1982, the agricultural sector's
contribution to GDP was about J$ 400 million in current prices, or 7% of
total GDP. Of this amount, 17% came from exported agricultural products -
mainly sugar and bananas; 48% from agricultural products for domestic
consumption; and 35% from livestock and its products, fisheries and
forestry.
1.05      Despite a substantial decline in export performance over a
decade, as shown in Table 1, the sector's contribution to foreign exchange
earnings is noticeable. In 1982, the value of export earnings (f.o.b.
Jamaica) from fresh and processed agricultural products was US$98.0
million, or 13% of the country's total exports. Sugar and related



-2 -
products accounted for 61% of total agricultural export value; bananas for
5%; cocoa, 3%; coffee, 7%; root crops and vegetables, 6%; citrus, 5%; and
pimento, 5%.
1.06      The balance of trade for the agricultural sector in 1981 shows a
large deficit due to the high value of imports of food and agricultural raw
material for the food processing industry on one hand and the low level of
agricultural exports on the other hand, as follows:
US$ million
Import of foodstuff and farm inputs                    264.7
Export of farm fresh and processed products             96.0
Reexport of foodstuff                                    4.6
Balance of Trade                                      -164.1
Efforts to increase the volume and value of agricultural export as well as
to substitute for some of the food imports could help decrease the deficit
of the balance of trade of the agricultural sector. Such efforts are also
well placed in light of the high value added of exported agricultural
products, which is higher than that of manufactured products (Table 2).
C. Agricultural Production Conditions and Resources
Climatic Conditions
1.07      The climate of Jamaica is maritime tropical, with an annual
average rainfall during 30 years of observations ranging between 996 mm and
3,438 mm depending on location. Maximum mean temperature is in the range
of 23.6°C to 30.5°C and the minimum 15.5°C to 17.7°C, depending on
altitude. Annual average daily sunshine duration ranges from 6.1 to 8.2
hours. Trade winds prevail throughout the year. Jamaica is also affected
occasionally by tropical storms and hurricanes. Hurricane Allen hit the
island in August 1980 and caused serious damage to rural property, ruined
banana plantations and uprooted many commercial. fruit and forest trees.
Jamaica's climate is generally favorable for most agricultural activities
and provides the island with some comparative advantages over many other
countries in terms of the ability to produce a wide range of crops over a
long season. However, these conditions also carry with them some adverse
side effects, the most important of which is moisture deficiency in certain
areas during particular months of the year, which calls for supplementary
irrigation.
Land and Water
1.08      Jamaica's total area of 10,992 Km2 (2.7 million acres) is
unequally divided among plains that extend along the coastlines and are
considered the best lands for agriculture, rolling limestone plateaus,
hills, and high mountains. Of the total land area, only 13% is highly
fertile and qualified for agricultural use with no, or only moderate,
limitations; 22% is suitable for agriculture with strong limitations; and
10% can be considered only for tree crops, improved pasture and commercial



- 3 -
forest. The rest, 55%, is natural pasture, forest and land unsuitable for
other agricultural use. Of the 398,300 acres of land under cultivation in
1981, 279,600 acres (70%) were under export crops, a drastic decline since
1971:
1971               1981              Changes
Percent            Percent             Percent
of                 of                  of
Acres    Total    Acres    Total       Acres      1971
Traditional
Export Crops        417,100    79.4   279,600    70.2   -137,500   -33.0
Crops for Domestic
Consumption         108,320    20.6   118,710    29.8   + 10,390   + 9.6
Total                 525,420   100.0   398,310   100.0   -127,110   -24.2
Source: Data Bank and Evaluation Division, Ministry of Agriculture
The 398,310 acres of land utilized, make up only 42% of the total land
suitable for agriculture, meaning that some good farmland in Jamaica is not
being utilized according to its capability.
1.09      Ground water resources exist in a number of limestone and
alluvium aquifers located throughout the island and provide some 60 to 70%
of the present water supply; the rest comes from surface water flows in
rivers and streams. Presently, there are sufficient water resources in
Jamaica to meet the needs of industrial, irrigation and human consumption.
Supplementary irrigation is needed in some areas with moisture deficiency.
Some 86,000 acres are under irrigation from either rivers or wells, and,
while farmers wish to expand their irrigated areas, they face technical
constraints and a shortage of financial resources.
Population and Labor Resources
1.10      Of the total population of 2,226,400 at end-1982, about 37% lived
in rural areas. In 1982, the agricultural labor force in Jamaica amounted
to about 21% of the total labor force; 76% was male, with female labor used
mainly for seasonal work. The rate of unemployment in agriculture was 6%
compared to the general unemployment rate of 27%. Hlowever, there is
considerable underemployment in agriculture. Despite the overall
unemployment situation, farmers often complain that they have difficulties
in hiring workers during the peak demand season. Labor unions are powerful
and in recent years labor disputes have resulted in harmful strikes in the
sugar, banana, dairy and forest industries. The agricultural sector in
Jamaica still suffers from a severe shortage of agricultural managers,
agronomists and technicians.



-4-
D. Structure of Agricultural Sector
1.11      Of the  total value of agricultural production in Jamaica in
1982, 17% originated from traditional export crops (sugar, bananas, citrus,
coconutsl/, coffee, cocoa, pimento and other spices); 48% from crops for
domestic consumption; and 35% from livestock, fishery and forestry.
Production of the major export crops (with the exception of coffee) has
been in decline for nearly a decade.
1.12      The rural structure of Jamaica according to the Agricultural
Census 1978/79 consisted of some 182,200 farm units, of which 33% were very
small farms of under 1.0 acre operated mostly by tenants; 49% were
owner-operated farms between 1.0 and 4.9 acres; 16% were medium-size farms
of 5 to 24.9 acres; and only 2% were over 25 acres. Some 31% of all farms
grew export crops. The small farm group dominates the rural community in
Jamaica. The somewhat larger farms, which are usually one-crop oriented,
produce mainly for export and apply relatively more advanced technology and
some mechanization. The network of these larger farms has developed its
own organizations (certain commodity boards) and supporting systems.
1.13      Current agricultural production and rural structure reflect only
a partial utilization of available resources, leaving many agricultural and
agribusiness opportunities underdeveloped. jHowever, the available natural
resources and environmental and other production conditions offer a
promising potential and opportunities for agricultural production and
development, including rehabilitation and expansion of export crops.
E. Support Serv:Lces
Agricultural Extension Service
1.14      The Ministry of Agriculture (MINAG) provides agricultural
extension services only to small-scale farmers. However, the service has
not yet developed good extension methods and it reaches only a small
number of farmers.  Furthermore, the extension service suffers from
shortage of qualified manpower and vehicles. Five of the commodity
organizations (sugar, banana, coffee, citrus and coconuts) maintain their
own crop-specific extension services, but, being involved with many other
activities, such as marketing, plant protection, supply of inputs and
agricultural credit, the extension officers find little time for their
extension tasks. Coordination and cooperation with the extension service
of MINAG are minimal. Under the structural adjustment program, the
Government is taking steps to centralize the extension service in MINAG,
although the commodity organizations would retain crop specialists. The
Government is also receiving assistance from the United Kingdom to upgrade
and strengthen the service. The proposed project would support crop
specialized activities in CGA and CIDCO.
1/ Presently, coconuts and their products are not exported.



-5-
Agricultural Research (R&D)
1.15      Several organizations and agencies deal with agricultural
research on specific subjects and crops; however, major responsibility for
agricultural research in Jamaica is vested in MINAGe The commodity boards
and grower associations (sugar, bananas, citrus, coconuts, coffee and
cocoa) are the major executors of the applied research for their crops,
which is intended to respond to specific, short-term problems such as
suitable varieties, pest and disease control and fertilizer response. In
reality, not much of the applied research program is being implemented due
to a poorly organized R&D unit in MINAG, an unmotivated professional staff
and insufficient research funds allocated to the research units of the
commodity organizations. As one of the actions initiated by the structural
adjustment program, the Government is now planning to transform the
well-run Sugar Industry Research Institute (SIRI) into a national
organization, which would have primary responsibilil:y for agricultural
research.
Agricultural Credit
1.16      Until recently, farmers had access to agricultural credit from:
(a)  the commercial banks;
(b)  the Jamaican Development Bank (JDB), which granted loans either
directly to farmers or through the Self-Supporting Farmers'
Development Program (SSFDP), a program designated to assist
small-scale farmers;
(c)  the Agricultural Credit Board (ACBd), which grants loans either
directly to farmers or through its affiliates, the 114 operating
branches of People's Cooperative Banks (PCBs);
(d)  MINAG, lending either through the Crop Lien Program or through
its Land Lease Program;
(e)  the commodity boards; and
(f)  non-bank sources (private sources such as traders or suppliers).
Commercial bank credit has been directed at large farms or estates on terms
that never exceeded five years. Most formal credit was supplied through
the Government credit programs for which the repayment performance was
extremely poor. By the end of 1981, total loans outstanding to agriculture
amounted to J$ 393.4 million.  The commercial banks' share had then
increased to 49% of the total, as shown in Table 3.  Of the total amount of
loans outstanding, large farms shared 75%; medium-size farms, 11%; and
small farms, 14%. Arrears were high, mainly in JDB and MINAG loans. In
general, agricultural credit processing is cumbersome and not effective in
reaching farmers on a timely basis.
1.17      In 1981, the Government of Jamaica overhauled the agricultural
credit system: JDB, which had become insolvent, ceased its operations
except for collecting old debts and MINAG abolished most of its credit



- 6 -
programs. In 1982 the marketing boards were asked to discontinue credit to
their members, with the exception of coffee for specific on-going
projects. The Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) was established to channel
short-, medium- and long-term credit to farmers through commercial banks at
somewhat lower than the free market interest rate. ACB is developing
various credit programs, such as credit for export crops and for
small-scale farmers. The credit to small-scale farmers is channelled
through selected PCBs, which would rehabilitate their operations under the
guidance of ACB. ACB also collects old debts of various MINAG credit
programs (paras 3.03 to 3.05).
Input Supply
1.18      The input supply system in Jamaica has suffered recently from a
shortage of foreign exchange and from the inefficiency of most input
outlets. Usually, the Jamaica Agricultural Society (JAS) supplies inputs
through its field outlets in the parishes. Some commodity boards and
several privately owned stores also supply inputs, most of which are
imported. However, the overall supply system which could be adequate, is
presently largely ineffective at reaching small-scale farmers in more
remote areas. The situation for medium- and large-scale farmers has been
somewhat better than that for the small ones, as most of them have their
own means of transportation.
1.19      Most improved seeds are imported, but seedlings and saplings are
produced locally by MINAG, the commodity boards, or privately owned
nurseries. To overcome supply shortages and low quality propagation
materials, the Government is considering importing cell tissue culture
planting materials. The intention is to apply the method first for bananas
and then to proceed with other crops, such as sugarcane, ornamental
horticulture, coconuts and vegetables.
F. Infrastructure
1.20      A relatively good road system connects most rural areas with the
urban centers, but it is poorly maintained and needs to be repaired. A
program for rural road repair and maintenance is now underway. Most
households in rural Jamaica do not yet have domestic water supply. Also,
while electrical transmission lines cross the island and bring electricity
to the municipal centers, some remote rural communities are still not
served. Product handling facilities for most traditional export crops are
obsolete and need renovation and upgrading. P'ort facilities are also
unsatisfactory. Cold storage space, shed facilities and loading equipment
either do not exist or are unsuitable for the task.
G. Policy Measures
Agricultural Policy
1.21      Export agriculture (with the exception of coffee) has exhibited a
declining trend during the last decade, whereas domestically oriented
agriculture has expanded steadily. Several factors have contributed to



-  7  -
this situation. One was a general movement of intra-sectoral prices in
favor of domestic agriculture in the 1970s. A severe foreign exchange
shortage in the mid and late 1970s led to a reduced food imports, which in
turn led to implicit and explicit incentives for import substitution in
agriculture; it is estimated that domestically consumed agriculture
received prices 20 to 30% higher than border prices during that period. At
the same time the shortage of agricultural inputs, machinery, and spare
parts associated with foreign exchange scarcity had a differential effect
on the more highly processed and input-intensive export crops. The
monopsony power of the external marketing organizations (EMOs) may also
have resulted in implicit taxation of the export earnings of farmers for
certain crops. The widespread incidence of praedial larceny, particularly
in coconut, bananas and citrus, also acted as a disincentive to
production. Disease and natural disasters have alsc seriously affected
production of sugar, bananas, and coconuts during the last five years.
1.22      In addition to these problems, a number of other difficulties
plagued the sugar and banana industries, where the most severe
deterioration in production levels occurred. In sugar, an unsuccessful
experiment with cane-producing cooperatives, overstaffing of
Government-owned factories, reduced availability of key inputs,
deteriorating management and agrotechnical practices, and the weakening of
world prices for sugar after 1976 led to declining yields, a downward trend
in production, and increasingly serious financial difficulties in the
Government-owned sugar industry. In bananas, a host of problems
contributed to the crop's dramatic downward slide: inadequate
agrotechnical practices, high unit transportation costs to European markets
due to declines in export volume, declining quality, and managerial
weaknesses in the Banana Company of Jamaica (BANCO). The export industry
is dominated by widely scattered small farms, many of which are located in
inaccessible areas. The inability to benefit from economies of scale in
the provision of crop care and irrigation, and difficulties in the packing
and transportation of fruit from diverse locations have made it difficult
for the small farmer to produce fruit of adequate quality for the export
market at an acceptable return.
1.23      In the context of its overall structural adjustment program,
which emphasizes the deregulation of the economy, greater private sector
participation and improved incentives for exports, the Government is
attempting to bring about a rapid expansion in export agriculture. A major
step in this direction has been the recent rationaliLzation of the exchange
rate system, which should result in a substantial improvement in the
profitability of export crops. It has recently launched a promotional
program (Agro 21) which aims at mobilizing foreign investment for the
large-scale and technology-intensive development of Jamaica's agricultural
resources in the production of non-traditional crops. At the same time, it
has taken a number of measures to streamline and diminish the role of
Government in the agricultural sector. A major focus of activity has been
the external marketing organizations:  under the auspices of the structural
adjustment program, the Government has reduced their monopsony powers. It
is also taking steps to limit their range of activities by divesting crop
growing operations and input supply, and by centralizing research, credit
and extension. A second major focus of the structural adjustment effort in



8-
agriculture is the rehabilitation of the traditional export crops of sugar
and bananas.  These programs focus on the rationalization of the National
Sugar and Banana Companies through closure or divestment of unprofitable
operations, reduced overstaffing, strengthened general and financial
management, and, in the case of bananas, a nesw focus on providing services
primarily for larger, relatively efficient farmers in coastal areas. These
programs are described in more detail in paras 3.09 and 3.10. In addition
to these programs, the Government has made efforts to reduce praedial
larceny by hiring 200 agricultural wardens al: the end of 1982 and
strengthening related legislation; however, this continues to be a serious
problem.
Credit and Monetary Policy
1.24      The national policy for commercial credit is coordinated by the
Bank of Jamaica (BOJ), which exercises statut:ory control over commercial
banks, inspects them and ensures compliance with general monetary policy
guidelines. BOJ keeps the Government's accounts and provides advice on
financial policy formulation, and regulates and provides clearing
facilities for commercial banks.
1.25      Commercial interest rates are freely determined.  BOJ fixes the
interbank rate and the prime rate is traditionally 2% above it. Commercial
bank rates to clients have varied around 3.5% above prime. Between August
1979 and August 1982, the commercial lending rates ranged from 14.0 to
19.5%. Official agricultural lending rates were usually fixed by the
Government, but in the past there has been no stable policy. The
Government has recently taken some steps to unify agricultural interest
rates so that loans through PCBs would be retailed at 12% and those through
commercial banks at 15%. These changes have been consistent with the
Government's objective of making agricultural rates similar to those in
other sectors, but somewhat lower than commercial rates, to maintain a
favorable investment climate. The final lending rate (also under the
proposed loan) of 15% to farmers through the commercial banks is expected
to be positive in real terms on the average o-ver the next five years and
will give adequate remuneration to participating financial institutions
(paras 4.18 to 4.19).
1.26      Reserve requirements are the amount of cash reserves and liquid
assets that commercial banks are required to hold.  Cash reserves have
never been changed from their initial level ofE 5% of the commercial bank's
deposits. However, the liquid assets ratio (cash and short term of up to 9
months maturity) has varied. In January 1979, BOJ approved a "voluntary"
increase from 29.5% (official reserve) to 40%,, which represents the present
effective reserve requirement. Liquidity rat:Lo requirements were further
increased in late 1983, and restrictions on credit were introduced in
January 1984, with a ceiling on expansion of credit to the private sector
of 12% in 1984, excluding lending by the ACB and the National Development
Bank.



1.27      BOJ may also use selective credit controls (used in 1980 to limit
consumer's credit) and moral suasion to affect the credit supply of the
commercial banks. Because the securities market is very narrow, open
market operations cannot be effectively applied.  In general, the monetary
policy instruments have not been used effectively in Jamaica. The supply
of domestic credit largely depends on the volume of exports and the
Government's budgetary situation. The banking system had high levels of
liquidity during part of 1982, because of a rapid increase in deposits.
Toward the end of the year and in early 1983 liquidity declined as the rate
of growth of deposits slowed and demand for credit from the private sector
increased rapidly.
H. bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.28      Bank involvement in the agricultural sector in Jamaica started
with two agricultural credit projects - Loan 719-JM of December 1970 for
US$3.7 million and Loan 1004-JM of June 1974, for US$5.5 million. The two
credit projects were aimed at the medium-size commercial farmer. Demand
for subloans, relatively strong under the first project, declined to a
virtual standstill under the second. As noted in the Project Completion
Report, the economic climate became so unfavorable during the
implementation of the second project that returns to investments in
agriculture became very low or negative; at the same time, project
management was adversely affected by the executing agency's (JDB) acute
administrative problems. The repayment performance of project
beneficiaries for the US dollar-denominated subloans was also seriously
affected by a devaluation in 1978. Severe manpower constraints in MINAG
were principally responsible for a very slow start in implementation of the
ongoing First Rural Development Project, Loan 1464-JM of October 1977
(US$15.0 million). However, the project picked up momentum, progressed
well, and, presently, close to completion, is considered one of the most
successful agricultural projects in Jamaica.  The Sugar Rehabilitation I
Project, Loan 1517-JM of June 1978 (US$18.0 million), has suffered from the
country's overall economic difficulties and from the specific problems of
the industry described in paras 2.02-2.05 below. The project was
reoriented in 1981 to focus on the maintenance of existing facilities and
strengthened technical assistance; execution is proceeding reasonably
well. The financial difficulties of the National Sugar Company (NSC), the
holding company for Government-owned sugar factories and the executing
agency for the project, are being addressed by the Government's action
program for the subsector. The Forestry Project, Loan 1716-JM of December
1979 (US$12.0 million) is progressing relatively well, with only moderate
managerial and financial problems. Agricultural sector issues have also
been addressed in the context of the Bank's Structural Adjustment Lending
(SAL). The proposed project is complementary to SAL I (Loan 2105-JM) and
to SAL II (Loan 2315-JM).



10  -
II. CROP PRODUCTION
2.01      Within existing environmental, production and socio-economic
conditions, agricultural production in Jamaica has centered around export
commodities. Eight crops, some of which are among the leading export crops
while others have been only recently introduced for export, are important
to the project and are described in the following paragraphs. Other export
crops could also be included if found to be viable. Another leading export
crop, cocoa, has not been included due to currently depressed world prices
and poor market prospects.
A. Sugarcane
2.02      Sugar has been produced in Jamaica for the last four centuries
and the industry has long been a cornerstone of the economy; a major
employer; an important source of foreign exchange; and, often, a center of
social and political controversy. Sugarcane production areas are scattered
over the plains of the island (see map IBRD 16943R), some of them receiving
adequate rainfall, but others needing supplementary irrigation. In 1965
sugar production reached its peak level of 506,000 tons; however, its
production has declined ever since. In 1982, cane was reaped from 106,000
acres, 2,482,000 tons of cane were milled, and production of sugar was
192,000 tons.
2.03      Sugarcane is grown by eight private sugar estates, by some
factory estates, and by about 20,000 independent farmers, who supply cane
to the factories and accounted for 76% of total cane production in 1981.
Except for a few large private operations, production is generally
inefficient. Poor management, and a recent inability to purchase
fertilizers and spare parts due to foreign exchange difficulties and
shortage of local funds have resulted in reductions in crop yields; in
addition rust and smut disease caused severe damage to plants in 1979/80.
Replanting with resistent varieties was found to be the solution to the
disease problems, but a recent replanting program, sponsored by MINAG,
succeeded only partially mainly because of poor field management. It is
the intention of the Sugar Industry Authority (SIA) to continue promoting
the replanting program by farmers and estates, under better field
management, but it has insufficient financia:L resources.
2.04      Presently there are 10 operating sugar factories in Jamaica:
four of them are privately owned and six are Government owned, managed and
operated by the NSC. Two other factories owned by the government were
closed in the last two years. Six factories have distilleries attached.
In general, sugar factories have suffered from frequent breakdowns, due to
failure to maintain and replace old machinery and equipment.  All operate
below capacity because the supply of cane is unreliable, with a national
average rate of utilization of 49.8% in 1981 and 50.4% in 1982. The
processing ratio of Tons Cane per Tons Sugar (TC/TS) is very high, with a
national average of 11.9 in 1981 and 12.4 in 1982 (a satisfactory ratio
ranges between 9 and 10). A recent World Bank supported project (Loan
1417-JM) assisted in rehabilitating three sugar factories which are now



operating under somewhat improved technical conditions but which still
suffer from cane supply fluctuations, managerial and financial problems and
operating difficulties.
2.05      The average yield of sugarcane in 1982 was 23.4 tons per acre, a
low level when compared with that achieved in 1965, when the average
reached a record of 32.1 tons per acre.  In 1983/84 harvesting season, the
average price was J$ 715 per ton of sugar (in the cane), and farmers, with
an 11.0 TC/TS ratio received an average farmgate price of J$ 65.00 per ton
of cane. Sugar is sold mainly to the UK market under the European Economic
Community (EEC) quota and to the US market at preferential prices.
B. Bananas
2.06      Banana plantations in Jamaica are located in six distinct growing
areas (see map IBRD 16943R) where the natural conditions of rainfall,
temperature, and soil are especially suitable. Most of the bananas are
grown under rainfed conditions, but some 5,000 acres are irrigated by
sprinklers. About 51,200 acres of bananas were grown on 20,820 farms in
January 1982, some 96% of which were small, up to 5 acres with bananas
sometimes planted as mixed stand with other crops. Small-scale farmers
account for less than 10% of total banana production for export.
2.07      Except for a few large and efficient plantations, banana
production in Jamaica presents a picture of a rapidly deteriorating
industry as a result of mismanagement at field level as well as the
marketing organization and support service levels, shortage of inputs, lack
of financial resources and insufficient supportive systems for plant
protection and quality control of export products. Recommended practices
are generally not followed: fertilizers, if used, are applied in very
small quantities; weed control is not always performed; pruning is either
not done or done improperly; and protection against leaf spot disease is
not effective and does not cover all plantations. Also, fruits are usually
not protected by plastic sleeves. As a result of the above factors low
yields and low to medium quality are obtained. Fruits should reach the
packing house for treatment within four hours of harvesting for proper
marketing, but, because of poor transportation facilities and bad roads,
this can rarely be achieved.
2.08      Packing houses (boxing plants) are inefficient and mostly
primitive and operate under poor conditions, resulting in a high rate of
rejects (9.7% in 1975 and 22.7% in 1982). In 1982, only 22,000 tons of
bananas (about 26% of total production) reached the export market. The
reduction in bananas for export occurred partially because Hurricane Allen
destroyed part of the banana plantations in the summer of 1980 and because
most of the crop went to local markets, where demand was increasing due to
the diminishing supply of imported food. Thus, because of the small
quantities of bananas exported, ships leaving port are only partially
loaded, making transport costs per ton very high. A new project to expand
commercial operations on 2,000 acres is now being implemented by BANCO in
cooperation with United Brands and Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC). In addition, the Government has recently adlopted a comprehensive
program for the entire industry (see para 3.10 below).



- 12 -
2.09      The islandwide average banana yield in 1982 was 1.5 tons per acre
and the average banana export was 0.4 ton per acre. By comparison, a
well-managed large plantation in 1982 had a y:ield of 13 tons per acre, 12
tons of which were exported.  The farmgate pri.ce paid for exported bananas
in 1983 was J$ 264.00 per ton, which could be an attractive price, but due
to the high reject rate for small farmers, it brought them lower returns
than they otherwise receive in the local market. All exported bananas are
sold to the UK market under firm quota at preferred prices; in the last
years, however, Jamaica supplied only a small part of its quota.
C. Citrus
2.10      The citrus industry in Jamaica covered an area of some 13,525
acres in 1981 and produced some 64,000 tons of sweet oranges, grapefruits,
ortaniques and bitter oranges. Most citrus groves are located on the
island's central plateau (see map IBRD 16943R) and grown on large farms,
but smallholders also produce citrus, often in mixed stands. Of the total
quantity produced in 1982, about 33,700 tons were delivered to packing
houses and processing plants and an estimated 31,300 tons of citrus were
sold in the local market. The amount exported in 1982, mainly to the UK
and CARICOM countries, included: fresh fruits, 536 tons; canned fruits,
118 tons; fruit juices, 3,311 thousand liters; and marmalade, 99 tons.
2.11      Most citrus groves are composed of old trees; more than half of
the existing orange and grapefruit trees and about one-third of the
ortanique trees are over 30 years old and need rehabilitation or
replanting. A survey of the citrus plantations in 1981 revealed that the
trees planted on about 5,500 acres are in satisfactory condition while some
8,000 acres need rehabilitation or replanting. Citrus trees generally show
poor quality production and low productivity, resulting from improper
cultivation and management practices and a shortage of inputs, mainly
fertilizers and spraying materials. All this, together with the fact that
six years of investments pass before plantations reach the stage of
commercial fruit bearing, make the development of new citrus plantations
relatively unattractive to Jamaican farmers. However, farmers with
existing plantations would like to improve theiLr production efficiency and
to obtain full utilization of their investments.
2.12      The average crop yield of citrus groves in 1982 was 4.73 tons per
acre, a relatively low level, but 1982 was not a favorable year for citrus
production.  The average price received by farmers at farmgate in the end
of 1983 was J$ 280.00 per ton or J$ 11.40 per box of about 40 kg; with
present low crop yields it barely covered the operating expenses.
D. Blue tMountain Coffee
2.13      Plantations of the refined Arabica coffee species are scattered
over the island along the foothills and in the mountains (see map IBRD
16943R).  The total area of coffee plantations in 1982 was 7,700 acres and



- 13 -
produstion was about 300,000 boxes2/ of cherries, or 1,360 tons of dry
beans_/.  Coffee production has advantages:  it can grow on mountain
slopes, it is easy to handle, it can be transported to processing plants
from remote areas and it provides large amounts of employment to the farm
family (60 to 80 man-days per acre). However, coffee production now
suffers from the Coffee Berry Borer, shortage of fertilizer, lack of
spraying, poor cultivation practices, and insufficient specialized
extension service.
2.14      Blue Mountain coffee, grown at high altitudes in the Blue
Mountain range, enjoys favorable production and market conditions.
Although the yields are generally less than those of lowland coffee,
quality premiums more than compensate for quantity. Jamaican Blue Mountain
coffee has a special quality, has gained a world reputation, enjoys an
increasing demand and receives premium prices in its special markets.
Presently, in the Blue Mountain area, there are some 2,350 acres planted
with coffee and there are plans to more than double the area within the
next five years. Production in 1982 was 29,800 boxes of cherries, about
10% of the national production. Unlike the lowland coffee, where
production is adapted to small-scale growers (37% of all 28,200 coffee
growers in Jamaica have plantations of less than 0.5 acre each), Blue
Mountain coffee is grown on plots averaging 3.5 acres.
2.15      Returns from Blue Mountain coffee are relatively high, with
yields varying between 90 and 120 boxes of cherries per acre, sold for a
farmgate price in 1982 of J$ 70.00 per box. Since December 1983, the
average farmgate price has risen to J$ 86.00 per box. About 95% of the
Blue Mountain coffee exports go to the Japanese market, with the remainder
directed to the US and UK.
E. Coconuts
2.16      Once an export crop (mainly in the form of copra oil), almost all
coconuts in Jamaica are now consumed fresh in the domestic market or used
by the copra industry. Production of coconuts has been seriously affected
by the incidence of Lethal Yellowing Disease, which has resulted in the
death of over 85% of the trees of the Jamaica Tall variety since 1961.
Replanting has been underway since 1966 with two resistant selections,
Malayan Dwarf and Maypan Hybrid. In order to encourage coconut planting
and in an effort to divert coconuts from the fresh market to the copra
industry, the Coconut Industry Board (CNIB) provides assistance (nursery
stock, inputs and extension) to farmers who join the replanting program.
In return, CNIB expects growers to supply at least 50% of their future
production to the copra industry.
2.17      Coconut trees are scattered throughout the island.  In 1981,
there were some 1.4 million bearing trees of the Jamaica Tall variety,
2/ One box of cherries equals about 30 kg.
3/ The ratio of dry beans to cherries is 1:6.6.



- 14 -
about 3.0 million bearing trees of disease-resistant varieties, and 1.6
million resistant trees that had not yet reached bearing age.  Coconut
production in 1982 reached 16,330 tons of copra equivalent.4/  Of the
total crop, about 14,860 tons of copra equivalent were used either as dry
or water coconuts, 1,300 tons for copra and :L70 tons for planting and
processing.
2.18      Coconuts are grown both in mixed st:and by smallholders and in
pure stand by large growers on plantations varying in size between 50 and
4,000 acres. The number of coconut growers is estimated as 7,500, but only
430 of them are registered with CNIB. Average yields islandwide are only
4,800 nuts per acre, a rather low yield, but large plantations applying
improved practices can obtain about 6,000 nuts. The price paid to farmers
by higglers who sell dry and water coconuts to the local market is higher
than the price set by CNIB for cocoinuts delivered to one of the 50 copra
manufacturers. The average 1982 price was J$ 1,855.00 per ton of copra
equivalent, and since December 1983, the average farmgate price has risen
to J$ 2,690 per ton of copra equivalent - an exceptionally high price which
makes the coconuts a profitable enterprise. The attractiveness of the crop
encourages farmers to expand their plantations.
F. Cigar Tobacco
2.19      Jamaica's tobacco industry has been expanding in recent years due
to strong overseas demand for premium hand-rolled cigars and for fermented
raw leaf tobacco.  There are four major cigar manufacturers in Jamaica and
in 1981/82 they received their raw materials from an area of 762 acres, of
which 497 acres were cultivated by 44 farmers contracted by the Tobacco
Industry Control Authority (TICA) and 265 acres by other farmers contracted
directly by the cigar factories.
2.20      Cigar tobacco production requires some costly facilities on the
farm and small-scale farmers usually do not have the means to acquire
them. Therefore, they contract their production with TICA, which provides
them with the necessary facilities, basic inputs and professional
guidance. Cigar tobacco is a labor-intensive crop, requiring about 80 to
90 man-days per acre. Average crop yield in 1981/82 was 1,200 lb per acre
and the price paid to farmers was J$ 2.25 per lb, both satisfactory levels
which brought farmers reasonable returns. Since December 1983, the average
price paid to farmers has risen to J$ 4.15 per lb. Jamaica exported its
cigars to the US, UK and the Federal Republic of Germany.
G. Ornamental Horticulture
2.21      The production of flowers and foliage plants is a relatively new
venture in Jamaica. There are about 145 growe!rs (most cultivating under 2
acres each) producing ornamental flowers mainly for the domestic market.
Nine large growers, with an average area of 12 acres each, produce for
export. There are some 56 different ornamental varieties grown in Jamaica,
4/ 1 nut equals about 0.136 kg of copra equivalent.



- 15 -
but presently only 14 are exported. Ornamental export consists of three
groups: (a) cut flowers, grown under shade, mainly Anthurium; (b)
foliage plants, grown under shade, mainly Aglaonema; and (c) foliage
plants grown in the open, mainly Dracena. The crop requires a heavy
investment in shade covers and in the plants themselves. Growers are
unable to expand their production area due to shortages of financial
resources.
2.22      Ornamental horticulture is a profitable operation.  Under normal
practices, crop yields and prices paid to growers (in 1982) were
satisfactory as follows:
Variety                            Yield per Acre             Price per Unit
(J$)
Since
1982    Nov. 1983
Anthurium                          148,000 blooms            0.44       0.81
Aglaonema                          243,000 tips              0.44       0.81
Dracena                             57,000 tips              0.45       0.83
Jamaican exporters sell their product to the US and European markets, where
the market demand has increased in the last five years.
H. Vegetables
2.23      More than 20 varieties of vegetables are grown throughout the
island by small- and medium-scale farmers and are becoming an increasingly
important item in the Jamaican diet. The soil and climatic conditions are
ideal for vegetable production and there appear to be promising export
opportunities since Jamaica can supply the colder countries in Europe and
North America with vegetables any time during the year. Presently, two
large commercial operations are producing vegetables for export, shipping
to the US east coast markets and to Europe. These operations are still
very new, but results so far are encouraging.
2.24      The domestic marketing organization is poor, and, because of lack
of market intelligence and information, farmers are reluctant to produce
more vegetables out of fear that they will create a surplus. However, with
favorable marketing conditions and with new export opportunities, farmers
appear to be ready to increase production, as growing vegetables can be
profitable.
III. THE EXECUTING AGENCIES
A. The Ministry of Agriculture
3.01      MINAG has the prime responsibility for the agricultural sector
and would also have overall responsibility for project implementation. In



- 16 -
1977, MINAG  assisted by the Bank, initiated a reorganization program_5
aimed at centralizing policy and planning functions and decentralizing and
regionalizing all program implementation activities. The program also
called for reorganization of the Ministry itself along functional lines.
In general, MINAG followed the main lines of the proposed program and there
is now a relatively effective organizational set-up (Chart 1).
3.02      At field level, MINAG has four regions (see map IBRD 16942), each
covering three or four parishes and headed by a regional director. The
regional office is responsible for agricultural production services and
rural development within the regional boundaries. On the parish level,
MINAG re-established the Land Authority, an agency which is responsible for
all local MINAG activities, mainly extension and soil conservation. In
each parish there are three or four divisional extension areas, each with
an extension staff, providing assistance mainly to small-scale farmers.
Most medium- and large-scale farmers receive their support services from
the commodity organizations, not from MINAG.
B. Agricultural Credit Institutions
The Agricultural Credit Bank
3.03      Responsibility for providing credit to the project participants
would be vested in ACB. ACB was incorporated in June 1981 with an initial
capital of J$ 0.6 million. Under its charter, ACB can advance or lend
money for establishment, development or expansion of enterprises by
participating in share capital, or giving loans to organizations or
individuals involved in agricultural or agro-industrial enterprises.
Although ACB has a wide mandate, its role, for the time being, is confined
to wholesaling funds through financial intermediaries. With the exception
of an externally financed ongoing coffee development project executed by
CIDCO, and the Export Development Fund, it was agreed at negotiations that
ACB would be the sole Government entity to provide agricultural credit to
farmers. ACB inherited most of JDB functions in the agricultural sector.
JDB ceased its operations in 1981 as it failed to fulfill its functions
because: (a) there was a difficult economic environment in Jamaica during
the late 1970s; (b) JDB dealt directly with individual borrowers although
it was not organized for such work; and (c) JDB had an inefficient
management and organizational structure. To assure soundness and to avoid
a similar failure, ACB was set up to operate under different conditions and
arrangements; it would operate as a wholesaler and not deal directly with
individual borrowers, it would be better staffed and better organized than
JDB; and it would use technical assistance to improve its operations.
3.04      ACB's Board consists of nine members, two of whom are
representatives of MINAG and the Ministry of Finance and Planning. ACB is
organized into four main operating departments: (a) Operations, (b)
Finance and Administration, (c) Internal Audit, and (d) Legal. The
Operations Department has three subdivisions: financial institutions;
PCBs; and technical services and training. A fourth subdivision to handle
5/ A component of the First Rural Development Project - Loan 1464-JM.



-  17  -
agro-industrial loans will be added shortly. ACB has a total staff of
122, of which 81 are professionals. The senior staLff has wide commercial
banking experience and significant exposure to agricultural lending.
3.05      During the first year of its life, ACB's lending operations were
limited. The resulting initial losses were substantially reduced the
following year (FY84) when ACB began to expand its lending; in FY85, ACB is
projected to generate a surplus. Commitments to commercial banks in FY84
amounted to about J$ 22 million; another J$ 10 million is in the pipeline.
ACB's main sources of funding during the next two years include: cash and
assets from the SSFDP which is being transferred to ACB from JDB; loans
from IDB and USAID (in addition to the proposed Bank loan); and aGovernment
contribution of J$ 70.0 million (interest free loan). The proposed
financial structure will enable ACB to maintain a debt-equity ratio below
4:1, which is considered appropriate in view of the concessional nature of
its liability structure. The actual and projected Balance Sheet and Income
Statement are presented in Table 4.
Commercial Banks
3.06      ACB would channel its credit through commercial banks.  There are
nine such banks in Jamaica, six of them in agriculture, which jointly have
133 branches. Of these, 66 are in Kingston and the rest distributed among
31 towns. By and large, no town is more than 25 to 30 miles away from at
least one commercial bank branch. The three largest (Bank of Nova Scotia,
National Commercial Bank and Royal Bank of Jamaica) accounted for 40% of
total agricultural loans and over 85% of total commercial bank lending in
agriculture in 1981. Loans to agriculture accounted for approximately 12%
of total commercial bank lending as of December 31, 1981. The three
largest banks have expressed interest in participating in the project and
expanding their lending to the agricultural sector. One of these is
adequately staffed for the appraisal of agricultural projects, the others
have indicated their intention to recruit local consultants to supplement
their staff. In addition, ACB would provide assistance in appraisal of
loans and staff training.
3.07      The resources of the commercial banks consist essentially of
capital funds, deposits and special assets and their financial position
appears to be sound, with most reporting a significant growth in earnings
during the past three years. Loans require collateral and losses are
limited.
C. The Commodity Organizations
3.08      Another major group of agencies participating in project
execution would be the commodity organizations. Management audits of the
organizations have been partially completed by the Jamaica National
Investment Company (JNIC), with support from the Bank under the technical
assistance loan (Loan 2106-JM). The commodity organizations have already
started improving their management organizations and their financial
structures along the lines of the recommendations of comprehensive
management audits undertaken during the past three years.



- 18 -
The Sugar Industry Authority (SIA) and National Sugar Company (NSC)
3.09      SIA has a monopoly on the marketing of sugar and molasses in both
the domestic and export markets and it is responsible for SIRI. Another
function of SIA is to make recommendations to the Government on raw sugar
and cane prices. NSC is the holding company for six sugar factories,
comprising 78% of Jamaica's sugar manufacturing capacity. Due to low world
market prices for sugar, declining cane supply, shortage of inputs and
factory equipment, bad management and overmanning in factory and field, the
SIA and NSC have accumulated losses of some J$ 200 million. Following a
management audit, which was completed recently, measures to restore the
Government-owned industry to financial viabilLty have been initiated,
including increases in the local price of sugar, decentralization of
management to the factory level, substantial reductions in factory
overmanning, the closure of two factories in the past two years, and
initiation of an investment program to upgrade field and factory
operations. The Government is also holding discussions concerning the
possible divestment of two of the Government-owned factories, but as yet,
no conclusion has been reached.
The Banana Company of Jamaica (BANCO)
3.10      BANCO was created in 1979 to take over the operations of the
Banana Board and has the monopoly for the export markets of bananas. BANCO
operates 29 public boxing plants (another 11 are privately owned); an
extension service to growers; a research department funded by MINAG; a leaf
spot control program, of which 50% is funded by MINAG; and a farm input
supply program, as well as some 1,800 acres of banana estates. Since its
establishment, BANCO has operated inefficiently and accumulated losses
which now stand at some J$ 130 million. As a consequence of the industry's
production decrease and its inefficient and ineffective support service
systems, the Government recently undertook a management audit of BANCO and
has adopted the strategy developed in the audit for the strengthening of
the industry. The main aim of the Government's new strategy is to
stimulate production of export quality fruit by rationalizing its
operations and thereby ensuring that farm inputs arrive on time and that
the price paid to efficient banana growers reflects the earnings from the
export of their fruit. The program was presented to the Bank and discussed
during negotiations, and it was agreed that thes plan would be carried out
on a timetable satisfactory to the Bank. Its main features are:
(a)  segregation of the banana export marlcet from the domestic market;
(b)  a phased program to close inefficient: boxing plants and to
upgrade and divest the remainder;
(c)  rehabilitation of the plant protection system;
(d)  separating banana growing activities from the marketing
activities of BANCO;
(e)  transferring all input supply activities to the All Island Grower
Association; and



19  -
(f) initiating steps to improve the accounting system and the
financial management of BANCO.
The Citrus Growers' Association (CGA)
3.11      CGA is an association of growers with statutory powers to
regulate the purchase and marketing of citrus fruit for the export
markets; in practice it has only limited functions. Domestic fresh fruit
markets are unregulated but CGA allocates quotas of fruit for export and
for the two processing factories in Jamaica and fixes prices. It also
operates a four-man extension service providing guidance to citrus
growers. The Jamaica Citrus Growers (JCG), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
CGA, operates a factory with a diversified line of products, but
fluctuations in fruit supply, combined with processing and management
inefficiencies, have kept JCG unprofitable for years. The organizational
structure of both CGA and JCG needs some strengthening as recommended by
the management audit.
The Coffee Industry Board (CIB)
3.12      CIB has the primary function of quality control and monitoring of
foreign exchange earnings from coffee. All export coffee must pass through
CIB's control, grading and licensing procedures.  CIB operates a number of
pulping stations, additional to those owned privately or cooperatively.
For development purposes, CIB has recently established a subsidiary, the
Coffee Industry Development Company (CIDCO), which maintains nurseries and
operates as a credit agency in connection with specific development
projects. The field staff of CIDCO, about 72 in number, is primarily
engaged in production activities, loan servicing and extension to newly
developed plantations. CIB is functioning at a satisfactory level, but
needs some strengthening of its management and organizational structure.
The Coconut Industry Board (CNIB)
3.13      CNIB regulates the production of copra and its processing into
edible oils and other products.  It also establishes prices to be paid to
producers and the selling price of copra. CNIB owns a group of subsidiary
companies engaged in the manufacture of copra oil, other edible oils and
fats, margarine, shortening, soaps, detergents and animal feeds, mainly for
the domestic market, and is the sole refiner of edible oils and fats.
Because only a small proportion of coconut production is now used for
copra, CNIB imports about 95% of its raw materials, mostly as soybean oil.
CNIB is funded by a tax collected by its subsidiaries on products made from
copra and imported oil. It is now operating a copra production
acceleration scheme and provides growers with free planting materials and
other inputs. CNIB's organization and management are functioning well.
The Tobacco Industry Control Authority (TICA)
3.14      Despite its wide monopoly and regulatory powers under the law,
TICA has limited its activities to the control of cigar tobacco produced by
contract farmers. TICA provides these farmers with facilities, inputs, and



- 20 -
extension services, and it purchases, processes and sells their tobacco to
local cigar manufacturers or for export as raw material.  It also operates
a small research station. Cigar manufacturers in Jamaica purchase leaf
tobacco from TICA but also from independent contract farmers and sources
overseas.
D. Jamaica National Investment Company (JNIC)
3.15       JNIC would be the major executor of the various management,
marketing, and feasibility studies under the project.  It is an efficient
and well managed public company wholly owned. by the Government and
reporting to the Ministry of Finance and PlaLnning, and is financed from the
Capital Development Fund, which receives the. proceeds of the Bauxite
Production Levy. The company has invested in a number of agricultural and
agro-industrial ventures and also has interests in other economic
activities. Its Technical and Management Services Division, with the help
of two Bank-funded management advisors, is responsible for the Government's
management audit program of key public sector enterprises, while its newly
formed Joint Venture Division is responsible for setting up joint ventures
in areas of high national priority, with JNIC supplying equity on behalf of
the Government. Its investment policy at present is geared toward export
agriculture and agro-industry. JNIC has also developed "management
consulting" activities, which provide consultancy services and studies to
the public sector.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
Project Formulation
4.01       The Government of Jamaica requested Bank support in 1981 for
financing an export crop project which would expand and promote production
of the traditional export crops as well as non-traditional crops and
products suitable for export. The project is designed to provide needed
support to accomplish the objectives of the Government's structural
adjustment program in agriculture - the rapid expansion of export
production - by providing essential credit, support services and
institution strengthening to the external marketing organizations.
4.02       After defining the needs for intervention in the export crop
subsector in November 1981, the Government asked the FAO/CP Investment
Center to prepare the project. An identification mission visited Jamaica
in September 1981, followed by two preparation missions in January-February
and in July 1982. A preparation report was presented to MINAG and the Bank
in October 1982. This formed the basis for a. Bank appraisal mission in
November 1982. A list of studies and working papers related to the
proposed project is given in Annex 3.



- 21 -
Objectives
4.03      The overall objectives of the project are to expand production
and promote marketing of export crops by providing the necessary support
activities and infrastructure.  The major vehicle of the project would be
credit. The project would also implement specific activities designed to
remove production constraints, and to overcome practical difficulties and
to break bottlenecks to development. These efforts are expected to result
in an expansion of export crop production, within a relatively short time,
which would increase foreign exchange earnings and create new employment.
B. Brief Description
4.04      The project would seek to achieve the stated objectives over five
years by providing:
(a) medium- and long-term farm credit to export crop growers to be
channelled through ACB and the commercial banks;
(b) on-farm investments to permit expansion of cigar tobacco
production; the investments would be made by TICA and the
facilities would be leased to individual farmers;
(c) infrastructure such as upgrading and improving boxing plants and
port facilities for banana shipping; shed and storage facilities
in airports, plant protection facilities, and processing
facilities for cigar tobacco;
(d) technical assistance to strengthen extension activities, to build
up a plant protection advisory unit, and to strengthen MINAG, ACB
and the commodity organizations;
(e) adaptive research on the most pressing problems affecting export
crop production;
(f) market studies, market promotion for export crops, and
feasibility studies for potential export crops; and
(g)  training of agricultural managers, technicians and professionals.
4.05      The crops needing long- and- short-term financing and/or other
support that would be included in the project are: sugarcane, bananas,
citrus, Blue Mountain coffee, coconuts, cigar tobacco, ornamental
horticulture and vegetables. Other export crops and activities might be
included in the credit component of the project, but they would be subject
to further investigation with regard to economic viability and market
prospects.
4.06      Direct project beneficiaries would be 500 to 700 medium- and
large-scale commercial farmers who would receive credit through the
commercial banks. In principle, any qualified farner, large-scale or
small-scale, would be eligible to receive credit for rehabilitation and
expansion of export crops; however, since another credit project, financed



- 22 -
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD), provides credit under preferred terms and
at low interest rates to small-scale farmers holding up to 10 acres, it is
envisaged that this group would not make much use of the project's credit
facilities. In addition about 1,500 farmers, some of whom are credit
recipients, would receive support from the st:rengthened extension. Even
more farmers would benefit directly from improved infrastructure and other
support activities such as plant protection, packing and transportation.
Many farmers would also benefit indirectly from the project's adaptive
research and the market and feasibility studies.
C. Detailed Features
Crop Rehabilitation and Expansion
4.07      Crop rehabilitation and expansion would be implemented over an
estimated 20,300 acres during the five-year project period as follows:
Crop                            Acres       Crop                         Acres
Sugarcane                       6,000       Blue Mountain Coffee           500
Bananas - Rainfed               3,000       Coconuts                     4,000
Bananas - Irrigated             2,500       Cigar Tobacco                  400
Citrus - Rehabilitation         1,100       Ornamental Horticulture         45
Citrus - Replanting             2,000       Vegetables                     750
The proposed phasing is presented in Table 5. The above figures are
indicative and should be considered as a fram,ework for the project and a
flexible guideline for its implementation.
4.08      Sugarcane.  Replanting of old ratoons would be a major step in
the program to increase productivity and quality in sugarcane production.
SIA has initiated a program to encourage estaltes, factories and farmers, to
replant 45,000 acres of cane fields, and, within the framework of that
program, the project would provide credit for replanting some 6,000 acres.
Replanting involves: discing the old ratoon; plowing; two to three
harrowings; furrowing; fertilizing; and planting. Under satisfactory
conditions, the first cut can begin 12 months after planting and an annual
average crop can reach 26.5 tons per acre as compared to an annual average
of 21.0 tons per acre before replanting. The required investment is
estimated at about J$ 2,590 (US$784) per acre. The project would also
provide credit to farmers to purchase field equipment, including tractors,
implements, cane loaders, cane transportation, and irrigation equipment.
The project would provide a line of credit for that purpose of J$ 7.3
million (US$2.2 million).
4.09      Bananas.  The low crop yields, and the unsatisfactory cultivation
practice of most banana plantations in Jamaica call for a drastic
rehabilitation program. A recent survey indicated that there are about
9,000 acres of pure stand bananas, yielding an average of 3 tons per acre,
that can be rehabilitated with promising results. The project would
provide credit to farmers to rehabilitate 5,500 acres, 3,000 acres rainfed



23  -
and 2,500 acres irrigated. Rehabilitation would include: treatment of
suckers; replanting (proper spacing, suitable varieties and certified
planting material); installation of irrigation systems; weed control;
fertilization; drainage; plant protection; fruit care; and proper
harvesting and handling. Under the rehabilitation program, with proper
plantation maintenance, yields after 8 to 12 months are expected to be 9
tons of exportable bananas per acre on the rainfed plots and 14.5 tons per
acre on the irrigated plots. The required investment is estimated at
J$ 3,837 (US$1,162) per acre of rainfed bananas and J$ 8,725 (US$2,644) per
acre of irrigated bananas.
4.10      Citrus.  The project would provide credit to rehabilitate an
estimated 1,100 acres of citrus plantations and replant 2,000 acres.
Rehabilitation and replanting would increase the volume of production from
existing plantations, mainly for rising local demand, but also for export
and the processing industry. Rehabilitation includes: evaluation of every
tree in the plot, uprooting degenerated trees and planting new ones (it is
estimated that about 12% of the trees have to be replaced); pruning the
remaining trees; phytosanitation treatment; fertilization; and pest and
disease control. The replanting process involves uprooting all existing
trees and planting new ones. Valencia oranges and ortaniques should make
up the majority of trees replanted, as they are steady bearers and are
suitable for local consumption, fresh exports and juicing. A rehabilitated
plantation would reach full production in the fourth year, with an average
yield of 10.2 tons per acre compared with 4.2 tons per acre before
rehabilitation. The replanted plantations would enter the bearing age in
the fourth year and reach full production in the ninth year, at an
estimated 12.8 tons per acre compared to 1.6 tons before replanting.
Required investments are estimated at J$ 2,031 (US$615) per acre of
rehabilitated citrus and J$ 4,772 (US$1,446) per acre of replanted citrus.
4.11      Blue Mountain Coffee.  In order to expand production and export
of Blue Mountain coffee, credit would be provided for new plantings of
about 500 acres in the Blue Mountain area.  Since most lands there are
rather steep, special attention must be given to soil erosion problems.
The coffee seedlings are planted either individually, by groups, or by
hedge-rows, with the number of plants per acre varying between 500 and
1,000. Plants are set in mounds of mixed soil and manure or other organic
matter. The seedlings are progeny of selected high yielding trees, of the
"Arabica Typica" variety, and are supplied from MINAG nurseries. At the
third year, some initial yield can be expected, which will increase each
year until full production is attained at the seventh or eighth year. Crop
yields at full production would be about 100 boxes (3,000 kg) per acre of
cherries, or 450 kg of dry beans. The required investment for Blue
Mountain coffee planting is estimated at J$ 8,767 (US$2,657) per acre.
4.12      Coconuts.  The project would provide credit needed for new
planting of about 4,000 acres of coconuts. Selected seedlings are supplied
from MINAG and CNIB nurseries. Up to 90 trees of the Dwarf variety are
planted per acre. Fertilizers and herbicides are alpplied in circles around
the trees. Trees start yielding nuts in the fifth year and reach full
production of 6,000 nuts, or 816 kg of copra equivalent, per acre after



- 24 -
eight years. Because of the support growers receive from CNIB (para 2.16),
investments by the farmers are relatively low and estimated at J$ 1,300
(US$394) per acre.
4.13      Cigar Tobacco.  The project would provide TICA with the necessary
funds for on-farm investments to enable produLction on 400 acres. The land
and the facilities would be leased to farmers. The investments would be
for irrigation equipment and curing barns, at an estimated total cost of
J$ 1,403,000 (US$425,000).  Leasing is recommended in this case, as
investments are high and beyond the reach of individual tobacco growers,
who are usually landless and unable to obtain credit. Present lease
conditions are satisfactory and "fair" to the farmers.
4.14      Ornamental Horticulture.  The project would provide credit to
ornamental horticulture growers to expand production on about 45 acres.
Development would be concentrated on the production of Anthurium flowers
and Aglonema and Dracena foilage plants, each on about 15 acres. The
investment would include construction of sheds (for the indoor varieties)
and purchase of equipment and planting materials. The estimated investment
costs per acre are high: indoor Anthurium, J$ 291,660 (US$88,380); indoor
Aglaonema, J$ 246,070 (US$74,570); and outdoor Dracena, J$ 83,340
(US$25,260), the average production unit size would be three acres.
4.15      Vegetables.  The project would assist in bringing together
medium- and large-scale farmers and large commercial operations and in
incorporating them in vegetable production un:its for export. The
individual farmers have the capability to produce vegetables, but they are
presently not doing so, or doing it only on a small scale, because of
uncertain markets, lack of marketing organizations and lack of
infrastructure and support services. On the other hand, large commercial
farms, which produce vegetables on a large scale and supply them to the US
and European markets have market connections and all the necessary
infrastructure and facilities. Under the project some combining of
operations would be encouraged. A large commercial farm would serve as a
nucleus unit; this unit would make the export sale contracts and
accordingly design the crop production planning and provide the necessary
packing, storing, and transportation facilities. Individual farmers would
produce according to guidance and requests made by the nucleus unit based
on advance contracts. The project would provide credit for development of
about 750 acres of vegetable production for export on individual farms.
The main investment items would be land preparation and installation of
irrigation systems at an estimated investment cost of J$ 11,020 (US$3,340)
per acre.
Line of Credit
4.16      The project's credit component estimated at US$20.5 million would
be onlent to commercial banks through ACB. The estimated credit need
is based on an agricultural plan which envisages development of roughly
20,000 acres, with an estimated on-farm investment of US$29.6 million,



-  25  -
Discussions with commercial banks and farmers confirm the existence of
demand for the kind of credit proposed. Project management, the banking
system, the commodity organizations and the extension service would
initiate a program among farmers to promote medium- and long-term credit.
4.17      The credit component would normally finance an average of 70% of
the estimated investment costs up to a maximum of 80%, excluding the cost
of land, and with a maximum loan ceiling of J$ 1.0 million to any single
beneficiary. There would be no lower limit on the size of the
subprojects. The commercial banks would decide on the appropriate
collateral that borrowers have to provide.
4.18      The credit component would be onlent by the government to ACB in
Jamaican dollars at the Bank's variable interest rate. Execution of a
subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Government's counterpart funds would be onlent to ACB at zero interest
rate. Since the Bank provides about 40% of the credit resources and the
Government, 60%, the weighted average cost of these funds to ACB would at
present be around 4%. ACB would onlend these funds to commercial banks at
12%. The cost to the ultimate borrower would be 15%, thus giving the
commercial banks a 3% spread, an amount that they consider adequate to
cover their administrative costs, risk and profits. The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by the Government. The 3% spread may be revised as
experience is gained with the performance of individual commercial banks.
4.19      The Government intends that ACB become a self-supporting viable
institution within the next three to five years (ACB financial projections
are presented in Table 4). The relatively high spread foreseen for ACB is
considered necessary at this juncture because ACB is involved in
financially restructuring 40 PCBs and collecting old debts of previous
credit programs. The Government has exempted ACB project funds onlent to
commercial banks from the liquidity requirements applied to all commercial
lending. Lending rates are fixed but should the open market or the World
Bank's interest rates change, the project rate could, with Bank approval,
be adjusted. Assurances to that effect were obtained during negotiations.
The present spread to ACB provides a reasonable cushion against such an
eventuality.
4.20      ACB would provide the following lines of credit to the financial
intermediaries:
Type of Loan           Maximum Loan Term            Maximum Grace Period
(years)                       (months)
Short term                      2                              6
Medium term                     7                             48
Long term                      12                             48



- 26 -
Loans below J$ 500,000 (US$151,500) would be appraised and reviewed by the
commercial banks. Loans above J$ 500,000 would be jointly appraised by ACB
and the commercial banks. Financial analysis would be required for loans
below J$ 500,000, while financial and economic analysis would be required
for loans above J$ 500,000. ACB has completed its operating manual and a
standard loan agreement with participating commercial banks, both
satisfactory to the Bank. The loan agreement between ACB and the
commercial banks would:
(a)  reserve the right of the Bank and ACB to inspect the
sub-borrowers' facilities and accounts;
(b)  require sub-borrowers to maintain adequate records;
(c)  require sub-borrowers to apply tests of technical financial and
economic viability to selected investments;
(d)  require beneficiaries to carry reasonable crop and equipment
insurance; and
(e)  ensure ACB's right to terminate the loan if beneficiaries do not
perform satisfactorily.
Drafts of the operating manual and a standarcd loan agreement were discussed
during negotiations and the final operating manual was completed
thereafter. A condition for effectiveness wculd be that a standard loan
agreement with at least two commercial banks had been signed.
4.21      The following assurance with regard to the credit component,
were obtained during negotiations:
(a)  the maximum long-term debt-to-equity ratio of ACB would not
exceed 4:1 during the period of the loan;
(b) (i) the maximum loan for any single beneficiary would be of
J$ 1.0 million (US$300,000); and (ii) ACB would seek Bank
approval for any loan above J$ 660,000 (US$200,000);
(c)  ACB and the Government would meet annually with the Bank to
review and agree on changes and development in the credit
situation and on adjustment of the interest rate; and
(d)  ACB would continue to make funds available, after the project
closing date, for credit to project participants to enable them
to continue their farming activities and to complete investments
which started before the closing daite.
Infrastructure
4.22      The project would provide funds to invest about US$2.0 million in
the following infrastructure facilities:



-  27  -
(a) Bananas; to be constructed and operated by BANCO (about US$0.8
million):
(i) boxing plants upgrading;
(ii)  improvement of wharf facilities in Port Antonio;
(iii)  transport and loading equipment, including fork lifts and
weighing station, spare parts and tools;
(iv)  plant protection equipment; and
(v)  radio communication system to coordinate inland banana
delivery.
Since the legal ownership of the wharf facilities in Port Antonio is
not clear, a condition for disbursement for iimprovement of wharf
facilities would be the presentation to the Bank of proof of BANCO's
ownership of, or a long-term lease contract for, such facilities.
Loan funds would be transferred to BANCO on the same terms as the Bank
loan, in Jamaican dollars at the exchange rate prevailing on the date
of disbursement.
(b)  Cigar Tobacco; to be constructed and operated by TICA (about
US$0.4 million): - construction of a new fermenting house. Loan
funds would be transferred to TICA on the same terms as the Bank
loan, in Jamaican dollars at the exchange rate prevailing on the
date of disbursement.
(c) Port Services; to be constructed and operated by MINAG (about
US$0.8 million):
(i) structures for plant quarantine in airports and seaports;
(ii)  equipment for plant quarantine, including:  incinerator,
glasshouse and laboratory equipment;
(iii)  shadehouse in airport for temporary storage of vegetables
and flowers; and
(iv)  temporary cold storage in airport for vegetables and
flowers.
Adaptive Research
4.23      The project would finance adaptive research with the objective of
providing answers to ad hoc problems of production in export crops. A list
of proposed research topics is presented in Annex 1.  A detailed research
program (for the entire project duration and on an annual basis) had been
prepared by the project management and presented to the Bank. The research
program would be executed by MINAG. The provision of funding under the
project, together with ongoing MINAG reforms are expected to result in
removing the principal constraints on effective research.



- 28 -
Studies
4.24      The project would finance surveys and marketing and economic
studies to assist export crops development. A list of the proposed surveys
and studies is presented in Annex 1. A detailed study program to be
carried out during the first two years of the project implementation was
prepared by the project management and presented to the Bank. The scope
and terms and conditions for executing each study are satisfactory to the
Bank.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.25      The project would provide funds for 338 man-months of technical
assistance to strengthen the extension service, and specific professional
services to some of the commodity institutions. The main emphasis would be
on assistance to the extension service. Extension work would be
complementary to the credit program, providing field guidance to project
beneficiaries in their execution of the crop rehabilitation and expansion
program. Specific professional services would include assignments such as:
banana packing, plant protection, citrus proc,essing, tobacco processing,
plant quarantine and agricultural credit. Th,s technical assistance would
be provided mainly by expatriate consultants who would work with local
counterparts. Information on consultants is presented in Table 6.
Detailed terms of reference for the consultani:s were prepared by MINAG and
discussed at negotiations. Consultant services under the project would
amount to 338 man-months during the five project years. Vehicles and
office facilities would be provided to the field technical assistance
staff. During the past years, MINAG has gained experience in recruiting
and working with consultants, it is expected that this experience would be
helpful in the implementation of this component. The cost of expatriate
consultant is estimated to be US$9,000 per manl-month, of which about 80%
represents consultant fees and about 20% miscellaneous expenses.
4.26      Emphasis would be placed on technical and managerial training, to
be provided locally or overseas. In order to alleviate the shortage of
local managers, the project would organize a mid-level management course
for a duration of six to eight months. A detailed training program for the
management course and for the technical training activities had been
prepared and presented to the Bank by the Training Division of MINAG which
has experience in staff training, and is summarized in Annex 1. The
training facilities of MINAG would be utilized by the project.
On-Lending Terms for Infrastructure and Services
4.27      The Government would onlend loan funds to the commodity
organizations, in Jamaican dollars, on the same terms as the Bank loan, for
portions of the infrastructure, extension and research components.
Contractual arrangements to this effect, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
required as a condition of effectiveness.



- 29 -
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01        Total project cost over the five-year project period (1984 to
1988) is estimated at J$ 133.6 million, or US$40.5 million, including a
foreign exchange cost of US$24.5 million, or 61% of the total. Tax element
is minimal in total costs, as the project would benefit from the tax
incentive program and tax holiday for 10 years. No physical contingencies
were computed for the line of credit, but for other components, physical
contingency allowances vary from 3% to 12% (depending on the nature of the
cost item) of the baseline costs. Price contingencies were calculated in
US dollar terms based on forecasted international inflation rates of:   7.5%
for 1984; 7.0% for 1985; and 6.0% for 1986 and onward. Local inflation is
assumed to be higher than the international inflation, and is expected to
average about 12% annually during 1984-89. No price contingencies were
computed for the line of credit. The project cost summary is given below,
and the annual phasing is detailed in Table 7.
Project Cost Summary
X of
x if  TOWl
-(J$'OOO)           (US$'(Xf)    Foreign  Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Forei  Total  Exchage Costs
ugarcane, Replantirg and Equipint    6,852  15,401  22,253  2,076  4,667   6,743   69.2  18.1
Banana, Rehabilitation       17,735 21,335  39,070  5,374  6,465  11,839   54.6  31.8
Citrus, Pehabilitation ard Replantirg  5,633  5,696  11,329  1,707  1,726   3,433   50.3  9.2
Blue Mountain Coffee, Plantirg  2,355  2,792  5,147   714   846  1,560   54.2  4.2
Coconit, Planting             1,538   630  2,168   466   191    657   29.1  1.8
Cigar Tobecco, Expansiai of Production
Area                         1,475  2,171  3,646   447   658  1,105   59.6  3.0
Ornmantal Horticalture, Expansicn  2,304  7,244  9,548   698  2,195   2,893   75.9  7.8
Vegetable, Expansion           821  4,069  4,890   249  1,233   1,482   83.2  4.0
Plant Quarantine Facilities   1,506  1,851  2,357   153   561    714   78.6  1.9
Adaptive Research              390  1,538  1,928   118   466    584   79.8  1.6
Project Manageolent Unit      2,004  3,950  5,954   607  1,197   1,804   66.4  4.8
Reserve for Other Export Crops  6,038  8,488  14,526  1,830  2,572   4,402   58.4  11.8
T1L BASELIE OcST             47,651  75,165 122,816  14,439  22,777  37,216   61.2  100.0
Physical Contirgenies           636  1,560  2,196   192   473    665   71.1  1.8
Price Goxtingncies            4,425  4,189  8,614  1,341  1,269   2,610   48.6  7.0
ITVrL PNO=Jea (t             52,712  80,914 133,626  15,972  24,519  40,491   60.6  108.6
B.  Financing
5.02        The Bank loan of US$15.0 million to the Government of Jamaica
would cover 37.1% of total project costs.   In addition, a front-end fee of
US$0.04 million would be capitalized at the borrower's request. The loan
would be passed on to the Government at the official exchange rate since
the majority of inputs constituting the foreign exchange cost of the
project would be obtained by the Government at the official rate through
external lines of credit. Of the balance, 40% of the project costs would
be provided by the Government and 23% by participating farmers. The
proposed financing scheme for the project is given below:



- 30 -
Proposed Financing Scheme
(US$ million)
FARMERS     GOJ       BANK      TOTAL
Credit and On-farm
Investments                             9.10      12.30      8.60      30.00
Civil Works                                -          .30        .40       .70
Equipment                                  -          .10       1.40      1.50
Vehicles                                   -          -          .30       .30
Training, Studies and Research                        .60        .70      1.30
Management, Extension Staff and
Consultancy Services                     -         1.00      2.15       3.15
Operation and Maintenance                  -          .15        .15       .30
Contingencies                              .15       1.80      1.30       3.25
Total Project Costs                       9.25      16.25     15.00      40.50
Front-end Fee                                         -          .04       .04
Total Financing Required                  9.25      16.25     15.04      40.54
The foreign exchange component (excluding the front-end fee) is estimated
at US$ 24.5 million or 60.6% of total project costs, while the Bank is
financing only US$15.0 million or 61.2% of these costs. The Government
would finance the remaining foreign exchange costs. The indirect foreign
exchange costs not covered by the Bank loan will be met in part by an
ongoing CIDA line of credit for fertilizers in the amount of about US$12.5
million.  In addition, the Government is planning to seek co-financing from
commercial banks for the project.
C. Procurement
5.03      Equipment and vehicles for the non-credit components with
individual contract values of US$85,000 or more (with an estimated' total
value of US$1.9 million), would be purchased by the agencies responsible
for the various, non-credit, project components following International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Jamaican
manufacturers would be entitled to a preference of 15% or the applicable
tariff, whichever is lower, in bid evaluation. Local manufacturers are
expected to be in a position to win contracts for miscellaneous tools and
small items, with a total estimated cost of about US$0.5 million. On
purchases valued at less than US$85,000, "direct purchase" after obtaining
three bids from local or international suppliers would be allowed; such
purchases are estimated to amount to US$1.0 million. Under the credit
component, sub-borrowers would procure goods and services for their
activities from local channels or international suppliers under ACB's
procurement procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Efforts would
be made to combine such purchases; if the combined amount exceeds US$2.0
million, ICB procedure in accordance with Bank guidelines would be
required. Such purchases are envisaged only with regard to sugarcane
machinery and equipment.



-  31  -
5.04      Civil works for an estimated total value of J$ 3.0 million (US$.9
million), would be carried out by local contractors engaged under local
competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. The small
size of the civil works operations in the project arnd the availability of
local contractors, make it unlikely that non-Jamaican contractors would be
able to compete for bids for civil works, though they would not be excluded
from bidding.
5.05      Expatriate consultants for technical assistance, studies and
training at an estimated value of US$3.5 million would be contracted as
individuals or through consulting firms, in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for the use of consultants. The Government of Jamaica expressed interest
in contracting the Operations Division of the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO), for the provision of most of the
technical assistance specialists.
D. Disbursements
5.06      The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed against:
(a)  35% of ACB disbursements for medium and long-term farm credit;
(b)  100% of foreign or 35% of local expenditures for machinery and
equipment related to sugarcane operations under ACB line of
credit;
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports, or 35% of local
expenditures for locally procured equipment and vehicles;
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures and 35% of local expenditures for
training, studies and research;
(e)  100% of foreign expenditures and 35% of local expenditures for
technical assistance; and
(f)  35% of total expenditures for civil works, and project operation
and maintenance.
Disbursements will be made against normal documentaition except for ACB
disbursements for farm credit which would be made against a statement of
expenditure, the supporting documentation for which would be retained by
ACB for post review by supervision missions. Since the ACB two-tier system
involves double intermediation, disbursement for subprojects will be made
for expenditures incurred up to 180 days prior to the receipt by the Bank
of ACB's request for approval for financing of the respective subprojects,
in keeping with practices established in similar Bank operations.
5.07      The estimated schedule of loan disbursements (five years) is
presented in Table 8; the schedule is based on the disbursement profile for
Bank supported projects in Latin America and the Caribbean in the
agricultural sector. Disbursements for retroactive financing up to
US$250,000 would be permitted for expenditures made after November 1, 1982
for project management, planning and studies.



-  32  -
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Coordination and Management
6.01      MINAG would have overall responsibility for the project, but
would delegate authority for implementation to other participating agencies
and institutions. The organization chart for project management and
operations is presented in Chart 2. It can be described briefly as
follows: the highest project authority would be the Project Board of
Management, headed by the Permanent Secretary of MINAG. Members of the
Board would be representatives of relevant Government departments and all
participating agencies. The Board of Management would have the authority
to make operational and policy making decisions and would guide the project
implementation staff on the desired course of action. (A similar system
operates successfuly in the First Rural Development Project, Loan 1464-JM,
and the experience gained could be useful in t:his project). The Project
Board of Management would supervise two main areas: (a) the credit
component, under the direct responsibility of the ACB, which would channel
credit to farmers through commercial banks; and (b) all other non-credit
project activities, for which responsibility would be vested in the
Commodity Marketing and Credit Division of MINAG. Day-to-day coordination,
administration, updating annual planning, adjusting initially agreed target
activities to actual circumstances, reporting, and liaison with the Bank
would be undertaken by the newly established Project Management Unit (PMU),
a small unit comprising the project coordinator and administrative staff of
two. The project coordinator would report directly to the head of the
Commodity Marketing and Credit Division, who in turn reports to the PS of
MINAG.
6.02      The PMU would receive support from a number of units and offices
in MINAG as well as from other agencies which are traditionally responsible
for certain activities: in MINAG, (a) the Accounting and Auditing Section
(para 6.05); (b) the Monitoring and Evaluation Section (para 6.03); (c)
the R & D Division, which would coordinate the applied research work to be
performed by commodity organizations or by MINAG, supervise the
installation and operation of quarantine facilities, and oversee plant
pathology advisory work; (d) the Training Division, which would coordinate
and activate the training program of the project; and (e) liaison officers
with the commodity boards, who would assist in coordinating the boards'
activities related to project implementation. Other participating agencies
would be: (a) JNIC, the chief executor of the studies; (b) six commodity
organizations, SIA, BANCO, CGA, CIDCO, CNIB and TICA, each coordinating the
field activities related to its specific crop and assisting in the
promotion of the credit program; and (c) the Ornamental Flower Grower
Association and the vegetable nucleus farm, both coordinating activities
related to their pertinent crops. The proposed project implementation
schedule would be as shown in Chart 3.



- 33 -
B. Monitoring and Reportinlg
6.03      A project monitoring system would be established by the PMU and
be carried out by the Monitoring and Evaluation Section of MINAG (which has
already performed successfully similar tasks in the First Rural Development
Project - Loan 1464-JM). It would collect and analyze information on
project achievements for comparison with targets, alert management to
problems as they may emerge, and provide a basis for the annual planning
exercise. Initial indicators and time-phased targets established prior to
project execution would provide a benchmark for comparison of targets and
actual results. Information would be provided to the PMU by the executing
agencies on a quarterly basis and these reports would be consolidated into
the trimestral progress report to MINAG and the Bank. Key indicators for
monitoring work are presented in Annex 2. Progress reports would provide a
comparison of numerical targets with actual performance (in terms of key
actions completed and costs), as well as PMU comments on special problems
and the steps taken to overcome these problems.  In addition, agricultural
production would also be recorded and compared with the stated production
targets. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that reports would be
prepared as described and sent to the Bank no later than three months after
the end of each quarter. ACB would also report to the Bank periodically
(para 6.05).
6.04      Project evaluation activities would involve periodic in-depth
assessments of the effect of the credit, the support services and the
infrastructure on the production capacity of the project beneficiaries, and
the project's contribution to the national export effort. The monitoring
and evaluation data generated under the project would provide information
for preparing the Project Completion Report which would be sent to the Bank
within six months of the project closing date. Assurance to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
C. Accounts and Auditing
6.05      Two separate accounts would be maintainecl for the project.  The
first would be related to the credit line and be under the responsibility
of ACB. The system would enable the management to frequently review levels
and trends of subloan sizes and bad debts and also to produce up-to-date
information and enable accounts to be finalized at the end of each
accounting period. ACB would prepare a quarterly report on its own and on
commercial bank activities and send it to the Bank no later than three
months after the end of the quarter. The participating commercial banks
and ACB are audited as required by law in Jamaica. The second account for
all other project expenditures, would be under the responsibility of PMU
and would be maintained in the Accounting section of MINAG. This account
would record own project expenditures as well as the expenditures of each
participating agency, except ACB. The account wouLd be audited annually by
Government auditors according to standard Government practice, which is
satisfactory to the Bank.  These reports would incLude specific reference
to the adequacy of procedures used for verification and preparation of
statements of expenditure for disbursement requestis. ACB (for the credit
component) and MINAG (for the other components) would forward audited
accounts to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.



- 34 -
VII. PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production
7.01      At full development, the estimated project-generated production
increases would be as follows:
i Without Project  Wtith Prclect       Incremental
Unit                                                valIue U7s$0005
of    Area          Area           Area                   FOB
Production   (acres)   Production   (acres)   Production   (acres)   Production   Farrn'ate   Port of Exit
Sugarcane           tors   6,000  126,000  6,00  159,Or00  -   33,000   650    1,035
8ananas             tons   5,500  165500  5, 500  63,250  -    46,750  3,740   L4,403
Citrus I/           tons   3,100   7,820  3,100  36,820  -     29,000  2.460   4,321
Blue MZuntain Coffee 1/    tons
beans   -      -       500    200    500     200   1.115   2,613
Coto-pits           tons    -       -     4,000   2,960  4,000  2,960  2,412   5,750
Cigar Tobacco 1/    lb      -      -       400  56t)000   400  560,000  707     933
Orna:*ental Horticulture 1/  2/  -  -       45    2/      45     2/    1,926   1,926
Vegetables          tons    -              750   7,635    750   7,635  5,4Y8   5,428
TOTAL                     14,600   -     20,295   -     5,695    -    18, 38   36,409
11 Refers to production for export only.
Y/ A mix of approximately 855,000 tips of outdoor foliage; 3,645,000 tips of Indoor foliage; and 2,200,006 cut fllovers.
At full development the combined annual value of the incremental production
for all crops is expected to be US$19.4 million at farmgate prices and
US$36.4 million f.o.b. at port of exit) a major part of which would go
directly into the country's foreign exchange earnings.
B. Demand, Marketing and Prices
Sugar
7.02      Under the Lome Convention, which is renewed every five years,
Jamaica has been granted a protected share of 125,000 tons in the UK sugar
market at preferential prices. Jamaica is also allowed to sell 27,000 tons
in the US market at preferential prices. Local demand is estimated at
about 100,000 tons (of which about 40,000 tons for refined sugar), which
means that the annual potential demand for sugar, for the coming years,
both in the international (at preferred prices) and the domestic market, is
252,000 tons. In addition, Jamaica received in 1980 an annual
International Sugar Organization (ISO) allocation of 75,000 tons at world
market prices. Local productioni is about 200,000 tons per annum and
Jamaica, in the last few years, imported sugar for its local needs. The
increase in sugar productioa as a result of the project would thus not pose
any marketing problem.
7.03      The price of stugar f.o.b. sold to the UK market was J$683
(US$383) per ton in 1981 and J$ 656 (US$368) in 1982, while the free market
price was about 20% lower. llowever, year-to-year fluctuations in world
sugar prices occur and might affect the profitability of the sugar industry
in either direction.



-  35  -
Bananas
7.04      Under the Lome Convention, Jamaica has a quota in the UK banana
market of 150,000 tons. However, Jamaica has not met this quota since the
late 1960s and has not exported more than 100,000 tons to the UK since
1973. In 1981, exports were only 19,200 tons, the lowest ever, however, in
1982, quantity exported increased somewhat and reached 22,000 tons.
Therefore, since Jamaica presently cannot fulfill its UK market quota, no
attempt has been made to explore other market opportvnities. With the
project, annual exports would increase by an estimated 47,000 tons, but
even with production increases from other banana development projects,
Jamaica is still far away from meeting its quota. Once the quota is
filled, however, other markets should be developed.
7.05      Since bananas are sold throughout the year, the price paid is
negotiated weekly between the Jamaica Marketing Company (JAMCO), the agency
which sells the bananas in the UK, and the distributors. The Green Boat
Price (G9P)6/ paid in 1981 was £310 (US$596) per ton and in 1982, £353
(US$543)_/ per ton. These prices do not currently result in attractive
farmgate prices because of the high cost of the inefficient handling and
marketing services, both of which will be strengthened under the project
and are expected to reduce their costs (para 4.25).
Citrus
7.06      The expansion of citrus exports would seem limited because of
world market competition to the possibilities offered by CARICOM countries
(mainly Barbados and Trinidad, about 1,500 tons in total annually) and by
UK markets for ortaniques (about 5,000 tons annually). However, prospects
for Jamaican fresh citrus seem to be found in the domestic market, which
could absorb an additional 15,000 tons of oranges and ortaniques, plus some
3,000 tons of grapefruit. Domestic markets can absorb an additional 7,500
tons of citrus fruits for processing. Overall, both the export and the
domestic citrus markets would be able to absorb an additional 32,000 tons
by the end of the 1980s.  The project's incremental production is expected
to be 29,000 tons, and, since this is the only foreseen citrus development
project, no marketing problem is expected.
7.07      The average price received in 1982 for exported fresh citrus
fruit was US$868 per ton f.o.b. and for exported processed fruit juices,
US$856 per ton f.o.b., both relatively good prices providing satisfactory
incentive. However, demand and quality of fruit meeting export standard
were limited and most fruit was sold locally at a price of J$ 280 (US$157)
per ton.
6/ The delivered price on the dock in the UK.
7/ The reduction in price in US dollar terms is due to changes in the
sterling pound value compared to the US dollar.



- 36 -
Blue Mountain Coffee
7.08      In the world market, Blue Mountain coffee is considered to be of
high quality and commands very high prices. At present, over 95% of this
special coffee goes to the Japanese market, with the rest sold to the US
and UK, where growing demand cannot be satisfied due to the small
quantities delivered. The current level of exports of Blue Mountain coffee
is only about 200 tons per annum, but the Government is now making an
effort to increase production and export. Several development projects are
planned or underway which, if implemented, could depress prices in the
Japanese market unless other markets of similar strength can be developed.
Therefore, since other market possibilities exist, an assurance was
obtained at negotiations that CIB would take steps to diversify the Blue
Mountain coffee market. A plan satisfactory to the Bank for the marketing
of Blue Mountain coffee would be presented to the Bank by July 31, 1984.
The project would assist in market development by providing the coffee
board with a marketing specialist. The expansion of production foreseen
under the project (200 tons beans) is relatively small and would not change
the overall marketing situation of Blue Mountain coffee.
7.09      The export price paid for Blue Mountain coffee in recent years
was high, reaching a level of US$4.95 per lb in 1981/82 (compared to
the Jamaican prime washed - US$2.75 per lb and Jamaican High Mountain -
US$3.70). Although the Bank's projections for coffee prices are generally
downward, premium grades of coffee supplied by Jamaica can be expected to
remain close to their 1981/82 levels in constant US dollar terms over the
next 10 years if the market would be diversified. Even at the "Jamaican
Washed" prices, Blue Mountain coffee would still be attractive to
producers.
Coconuts
7.10      Local demand for coconuts is growing and production cannot
satisfy needs. Attempts are being made to divert more coconuts to the
copra industry to substitute oil imports, but price differences slow down
the diversification process. Domestic prices would be studied under the
project (para 4.24). The project-financed expansion of coconut production
would be about 3,000 tons of copra equivalent, or about 15% of current
production. No difficulties are foreseen in absorbing the project's
production, either for local fresh consumption or for processing.
7.11      Since coconuts are consumed locally, the price is considered at
farmgate. The average farmgate price paid in 1982 was J$ 1,855 (US$1,041)
per ton of copra equivalent, which is an attractive price to the producer.
Cigar Tobacco
7.12      Jamaican hand-rolled cigars enjoy a good reputation and price in
the world market and the demand is growing for both cigars and fermented
cured leaf tobacco. Cigar exports from Jamaica in the last five years more
than doubled, from US$6 million in 1978 to US$15 million in 1982. Demand
remains strong and prices being paid to growers are attractive.



-  37  -
Ornamental Horticulture
7.13      Ornamental horticulture is a relatively new export crop in
Jamaica and its penetration of the international marlcet can be developed
further. The US and the European markets have been growing rapidly in
recent years. Prices are high and promise the grower significant returns,
enabling him to repay the heavy investments required for this crop.
Vegetables
7.14      Export of vegetables is also a relatively new operation in
Jamaica and experience in the last five years has shown that there is a
good market potential in the US and Europe during the winter season.
However, the market situation should constantly be explored as it is
sensitive to seasonal and yearly variations. Prices change according to
the market situation and can be very high at one time and very low at
another. However, the short export experience, even though on a small
scale and based on a wide array of vegetable varieties, has indicated that,
with careful marketing management, vegetable production for export can be a
profitable activity.
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production Unit Models
8.01      The project area is islandwide, and each of the eight project
crops would be grown in a suitable location. Based on field surveys and
observations, information gathered by the Rural Development Planning Unit
of MINAG and by the commodity organizations, and on discussions with
growers, several production unit models, representing the eight project
crops were studied. Project participants are generally medium- and
large-scale farmers at a fairly good level of farming, employing
recommended practices. The models are based on these farmers having
sufficient credit to purchase required inputs and being strongly supported
by the extension system. Assumptions for the production unit models on
input application and yields are presented in Table 9.
B. Financial Rate of Return
A summary of the financial analysis is presented in Table 10 and financial
rates of return are given below:



-  38  -
Crops                                   Financial Rate of Return
Sugarcane                                           13
Bananas - Rainfed                                   18
Bananas - Irrigated                                 18
Citrus - Rehabilitated                              22
Citrus - Replanting                                 21
Blue Mountain Coffee                                27
Coconuts                                          > 50
Leaf Tobacco                                        22
Ornamental Horticulture                             24
Vegetables                                         >50
The results of the financial analysis are sat:isfactory for all crops and
rate of returns range between 13 and over 50%.
8.03      An additional analysis was made to evaluate the ability of the
farmers to repay their subloans. Results indicate that, for all eight
crops, farmers would be able to service their debt at the proposed interest
rates and repayment period. These satisfactory results are based on
present and projected farmgate prices, which are a function of the
international prices, but, in most cases are established by the Government
or the marketing boards. The Government plans to review the farmgate
prices annually in order to assure fairness to the farmers.
IX. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits and Justification
9.01      The proposed project would ensure availability of term financing
for the agricultural sector which has been lacking for the last several
years and help induce investment in new activities or rehabilitation of
existing activities.  By financing export agriculture, it will complement
the Government's efforts to increase exports and foreign exchange earnings,
thus improving the balance of payments.
9.02      The proposed project would help rebuild the infrastructure and
support services needed for proper production and efficient export; it
would also strengthen the various institutions dealing with exports from
the agricultural sector.
9.03      The project has been designed to assist primarily medium- and
large-scale commercial farmers, but it is expected that the impact of the
project would affect other farmers, large scale and small convincing them
that production for export could be a profitable operation.
B. Economic Rate of Return
9.04      The economic rate of return for the directly productive aspects
of the project has been estimated at 21%. Details of the cost and benefit
streams assumed in the economic analysis are given in Table 11.



-  39  -
9.05      The cost stream used in the economic evaluation of productive
activities includes: (a) incremental operating costs and all investments
on farms; (b) investments in infrastructure and services (technical
assistance, research, studies and training) needed to support the project's
agricultural production activities and incremental operating costs directly
related to these services during the project implementation period; and (c)
recurrent costs of services and maintenance of infrastructure necessary to
sustain project development after the five years of project implementa-
tion. However, since infrastructure and services would serve the entire
export crop industry, rather than only the crop area directly involved in
the project, the cost stream includes only 50% of project costs for
infrastructure, training and studies, technical assistance, research, and
maintenance. The internal rate of return thus covers 78% of total project
costs.
9.06      The benefit stream includes all the net incremental production
from the project to be sold in the market, phased according to the expected
timing of farmer participation in the project.
9.07      The prices used in the economic analysis for the exported
commodities are the international current and projected prices adjusted to
take into account processing , transport, handling and insurance costs.
Products produced under the project, and directed to the local market, are
valued at local farmgate prices, with the exception of coconut where the
price of imported copra oil was used. Most of the prices are expected to
remain stable over the next decade; only for bananas and Blue Mountain
coffee a slight reduction was applied in accordance with the Bank's
international prices projections. In pricing labor, a distinction was made
between in-season labor, which is sometimes scarce, and off-season labor.
The in-season labor was priced at the current market wage, while off-season
labor was priced at 66% of the market wage to reflect unemployment and
underemployment in rural areas in Jamaica.
9.08      To measure the impact of possible changes in the economic
environment on the project's stream of costs and benefits, several
sensitivity tests were made. The results of the most significant are:
Best estimate        :  21%           Benefits down by 20%:  12%
Cost up by 20%       :  13%           Benefits lag 2 years:  10%
Benefits down by 10%                  Benefits lag 3 years:   7%
and cost up by 10%: 12%
The estimated return of the project is somewhat sensitive to possible
variations in costs and benefits; however, within the range of likely
reduced or lags in benefits of up to two years, and/or cost increases, the
rate of return is still at a satisfactory level.
9.09      The project's net present value, at a 12% discount rate is
US$23.3 million.
C. Employment
9.10      The proposed project is expected to generate annually at full
development some half a million working days, equivalent to about 2,000 new



- 40 -
jobs. In the serious unemployment and underemployment situation in
Jamaica, this would be a substantial contribution. In addition, the
project would create employment opportunities for technical people in
various support services.
D. Project Risks
9.11      The project faces a number of risks.  First, there are risks
involving weather, pests and diseases. The project would make efforts to
diminish the risk caused by pests and disease infestation by providing
farmers with advisory services and by rebuilding the plant protection
service of the banana industry. Second, there are technological and
production risks. These are not due to lack of knowledge, but mainly to a
shortage of technical manpower and of basic farm inputs such as fertilizers
and chemicals. The Government has taken major steps to reduce the
shortages by allocating foreign exchange for inputs, a process that would
be strengthened under the project. During negotiations, the Bank obtained
assurances from the Government that it would provide promptly and as
required the foreign exchange needed to purchase farm inputs for project
participants. Third are institutional risks, stemming from the
inefficiency of some of the commodity boards and other agencies. In order
to reduce this risk, the project provides technical assistance for
institutional strengthening. Furthermore, the efficiency of the
institutions would be closely observed during supervision and, if
necessary, specific measures would be taken to assist the agencies to
overcome difficulties. And finally, there are marketing risks, which can
be expected for any export crop, due to changes in the international market
situation. The degree of marketing risk varies from crop to crop, but a
general remedy is market diversification. In the project, market
diversification would be encouraged for Blue Mountain coffee, but it could
also be considered and studied for bananas, ornamental horticulture and
vegetables. Improved market intelligence and a close follow-up on market
information would also be supported by the project.
X.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
of Jamaica that:
(a)  the scope, terms and conditions for executing surveys as well as
marketing and economic studies would be satisfactory to the Bank
(para 4.24);
(b) procurement would follow procedures as outlined in paragraphs
5.03, 5.04 and 5.05;
(c) project's progress reports would be prepared and sent to the Bank
no later than three months after the end of each quarter (para
6.03);
(d) Project Completion Report would be sent to the Bank within six
months of the project closing date (para 6.04);



-  41  -
(e)  copies of the project's audit reports would be provided to the
Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para 6.05);
and
(f)  the Government would provide promptly and as required foreign
exchange needed to purchase farm inputs for the project
participants (para 9.11).
(g)  the Government would carry out on its plan for the rehabilitation
of the banana industry on a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(para 3.10); and
(h)  with the exception of the ongoing coffee development project at
CIDCO and the EDF, ACB would be the sole Government entity to
provide agricultural credit to farmers (para 3.03).
10.02     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from ACB that:
(a)  it would consult the Bank and get its approval for any adjustment
in the lending interest rates (para 4.19);
(b)  it would follow the financial limitations or practices as
outlined in para 4.21; and
(c)  it would promptly provide the Bank with its quarterly, annual and
audit reports, as outlined in paragraph 6.05.
10.03     At negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government
that it would prepare a plan satisfactory to the Bank for the marketing of
Blue Mountain coffee by July 31, 1984 (para 7.08).
10.04     A condition for disbursement for the banana infrastructure
subcomponent would be the presentation to the Bank of proof of BANCO's
ownership of, or a long-term lease contract for, Port Antonio wharf
facilities (para 4.22).
10.05     The following would be conditions for effectiveness:
(a)  a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and ACB (para
4.18);
(b)  the signing of a standard loan agreement between ACB and at least
two commercial banks (para 4.20); and
(c)  contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, agreed
between the Government and BANCO, TICA, CNIB, CGA, and CIDCO on
the terms and conditions of on-lending for infrastructure,
extension and research (para 4.27).
10.06     With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$15.1 million
(including front-end fee) to the Government of Jamaica. The loan would
have a term of 17 years with a grace period of four years, at rates
prevailing at the time of loan approval.
March 23, 1984



- 42 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROP PROJECT
Research Studies and Training
A. Proposed Topics for Adaptive Research
(a)  Bananas:          (i)  comparative studies of performance of banana
varieties under dlifferent growth conditions;
and
(ii)  cost/benefit stucly of the irrigation of
bananas.
(b)  Citrus:           (i)  indexing of virus and fungus diseases;
(ii)  control of Fidler Beetles; and
(iii) a program to certify propagation materials and
nursery inspection.
(c)  Blue Mountain    (i)  factors affecting flavor and productivity; and
Coffee:          (ii)  varieties resistant to rust disease.
(d)  Coconuts:         (i)  fertilization requirements;
(ii)  intercropping; and
(iii) control measures against pests and disease.
(e)  Leaf Tobacco:    (i)  effective measures against Blue Mold disease
(f)  Ornamental        (i)  selection of alternative varieties; and
Horticulture:    (ii)  alternative production methods.
(g)  Vegetables:       (i)  introduction of new vegetable varieties; and
(ii)  application of new plant protection materials.
B. Proposed Studies
(a)  Bananas:          (i)  suitable packing mnaterials and appropriate
packaging system; and
(ii)  reorganization of the plant protection system.
(b)  Coconuts:         (i)  segments of local markets and prices.
(c)  Leaf Tobacco:     (i)  new market opportunities for sale of raw
tobacco; and
(ii)  a study on the pricing policy of TICA.
(d)  Vegetables:       (i)  transportation of perishables and nonperishable
vegetables for export.



-43 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
(e)  Credit:           (i)  assessment of the credit situation and the role
of the credit agencies (to be performed in the
second project year).
(f)  MINAG:            (i)  technical and feasibility studies on new export
crops and activities; and
(ii) completion of land resource study and zoning.
C. Proposed Training Program
(a) Training of Agricultural Managers. The shortage of trained mid-level
managers in agriculture has been recognized as a major constraint on
the successful implementation of agricultural projects in Jamaica. In
order to alleviate this shortage, the project would provide an
intensive training program, for 5-6 months, geared to improve the
decision-making process and to develop the managerial ability of the
trainees and to prepare them to carry out managerial responsibility in
the agricultural sector (public as well as private sector's
activities) with emphasis on export crops. The training program would
include the following subjects:
- review of basic studies: accounting, economic and business
administration;
- human resource development and communication;
- labor relations;
- development in agricultural technology;
- farm management;
- the banking system and agricultural credit;
- project planning and management; and
- management issues.
The training course participants would be officials of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the commodity organizations, and managers and potential
managers of various agricultural enterprises. Three managerial courses
would be conducted during the first five years, each with 20-25
participants. Responsibility of the management training course would be
vested in the hands of the Training Division of MINAG in cooperation with
Administrative Staff College, a Governmental organ for staff training.



-44 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
(b) Short-Term Training. Courses and seminar on technical subjects
related to export crops production and marketing include:
(i) plant protection methods and measures;
(ii) product quality control;
(iii) packing agricultural products for export;
(iv) land, seas and air transport of agricultural products; and
(v) related issues of agricultural credit.
About 10-15 trainees are expected to attend each of the above courses,
including staff members of MINAG and the commodity organizations,
agricultural managers and farmers. The courses would be organized by the
Project Management Unit, with assistance from the Training Division of
MINAG.
(c)  Individual training for professionals in agricultural export.  This
type of training would be given in Jamaica or abroad for selected
individuals on topics of importance such as:
- citrus virology;
- cigar tobacco processing;
- ornamental horticulture production; and
- others.
The Project Management Unit would select the candidates for the training
according to the needs and personal suitability. Twelve scholarships of
this kind are expected during the first five years of the project.
December 31, 1983



-45 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Suggested Key Indicators for Monitoring
1. Farm Credit
Source: From ACB and commercial banks:
(a) number of loan applications received, number of acres to be
planted or rehabilitated; equipment to be financed; total value;
(b)  number of subloans approved, number of acres or units of
equipment approved for financing; total value;
(c) disbursements by ACB and commercial banks, total value; and
(d) disbursements from the Bank loan and Government counterpart
funds.
Last reporting period figures and cumulative amounts should be given for
each item. For the tobacco non-credit component, information should be
provided by PMU on new acreage planted, yields, and equipment purchased.
2. Debt Servicing Performance
Source: ACB and commercial banks:
(a) interest due and paid;
(b) capital repayments due and paid; and
(c) arrears in percentage.
3. On-Farm Investments
Source: PMU:
(a) for each crop; geographic location area and size of farms; and
(b) value of investment by type of operation (crop rehabilitation,
replanting or establishment; equipment and other inputs required;
and employment generation).
4. Prices
Source: PMU
Intervals for the current year as follows:



-46 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
(a) prices paid by farmers for labor major inputs (fertilizers,
chemicals and seeds) and services;
(b)  prices paid to farmers for their products by local traders,
commodity boards, processors, and external buyers;
(c) f.o.b. values at Jamaican exit ports for export crops and for
imported edible oils; and
(d) cost of processing, packing and transport.
5. Support Services
Source: PMU
Progress in the implementation of all support service activities of the
project.
6. Production
Source: Marketing Organizations.
Information on quantity produced and market destination for each of the
project's crops.
7. Central Project Activities
Source: PMU
Progress in the implementation of the following activities and facilities.
(a) plant quarantine and the airport's shadehouse and cool storage
facilities;
(b) training programs;
(c) market and feasibility studies;
(d) research; and
(e) monitoring and evaluation.
December 16, 1983



- 47 -                     ANNEX 3
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROP PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
A. Prepared by FAO/CP Investment Center:
1.  Reconnaissance Mission.  Report No. 39/81 JAM 8, October 1981.
2.  Identification Mission.  Report No. 18/82 JAM 9, April 1982.
Annexes:    (i)  Background Material on Agricultural Exports.
(ii) Agricultural Credit
(iii) Road Infrastructure.
3. Preparation Mission. Main Text and Six Annexes. Two Volumes.
Report No. 40/82 CP JAM 10, October 1982.
B. Prepared by the Rural Development Planning Unit - MINAG
1. Agricultural Credit Loan Guarantee Program
2. Research and Development in Export Crops
3. Activities of Commodity Boards
4. Agricultural Incentives
5. Agricultural Extension
6. Agricultural Inputs
7. Sugar
8. Bananas
9. Citrus
10. Coconuts
11. Blue Mountain Coffee
12. Cigar Tobacco
13. Ornamental Horticulture
14. Vegetables - St. Catherine Integrated Project
15. Quarantine
16. Roads
17. Tissue Culture
18. Aquaculture
C. Supplementary Bank-Staff Working Papers
1. Agriculture in Jamaica
2. Crop Production
3. Product Handling and Marketing
4. Agricultural Credit
5. Project Participating Agencies
6. Detailed Cost Tables
7. Financial and Economic Analysis
December 31, 1983



-48 -                           Table 1
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Agricultural Exports 1970-81
Year        Sugar      Rum      Bananas    Citrus2/    Coffee    Cocoa    Pimiento   Gir.ger
1000      '000       '000        '000
...........ons .... gals .... tons .         tons .       tons .... tons .... tons .... tons
1970        336.5    1,250       136.4       42.7          777      1,478      2,462       304.3
71       303.4    1,735        127.9       54.6          894      1,422      2,043       325.6
72       280.0    1,536        129.1       44.1          748      2,491      2,153       347.6
73       265.1    1,474        1C9.7       42.5          897      1,966      2,667       479.0
74       274.0    3,074         73.4       40.3        1,038      1,704      2,701       335.4
75       257.7    2,512         76.5       41.1          981      1,943      1,804       285.9
76        233.5    2,215        77.9       40.0        1,008      1,542      2,053       534.7
77       216.6    2,180         76.2       27.4        1,067      1,616      Z,353       2)2.9
78       199.2    1,872         75.1       36.2          616      1,244      3,017       172.0
79       190.2    2,579         65.5       29.6        1,542      1,353      1,830       133.4
80       131.8    2,723         33.1       44.5          985      1,165      1,909       150.3
81       121.3    2,387         19.2       32.3          862      1,564      2,494       104.2
82       134.5    1,349         22.0       39.8        1,104      1,320      2,063       179.0
1/ Deliveries to packing and processing plants. Exports have declined more than this
since increasing quantities have been stockpiled and diverted to the domestic market.
Source: National Planning Agency: Economic and Social Survey, various issues.
December 1, 1983



-49 -                         Table 2
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Earning and Value Added to Selected
Agricultural and Non-Agricultural Products -- 1981
(US$'000)
Total      Cost of Imported Items Needed for             Net     Percent
the Production Process                              _
.   .                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Foreign  of
Product         Product                          .                     FoEign        od
Exchange    Added
Ra.w     Spare    Capital
Value    Materials   Parts   Equipment    Total    Earning    Value 1/
Fresh foods 2/      5,513         505         27       305         837      4,676      84.8
Processed foods   14,925        9,576      1,053     2,057      12,686      2,239      o5.0
Floriculture        1,885        n.a.      n.a.       n.a.         565      1,320      70.0
Rum, Liquors       18,500        n.a.       n.a.      n.a.      10,650      7,850      42.4
Coffee              4,005         396        124       112         632      3,373      84.2
Cocoa               4,667       1,621        768       610       2,999      1,668      35.7
Spices              2,763         265          3        17         285-    2,478       89.7
Cigars             11,000       3,900        600       300       4,800      6,200      56.4
Ganaents            4,660       2,713        108       990       3,811        849      18.2
Furniture           3,301      *1,880         12       383       2,275      1,026      31.1
Total            71,219     20,856      2,695      4,774      39,540    31,679       48.8
1J  Hissicn calculation.
21  Includes:  vegetables (10.5% of 1980 export value); tomatoes (5.5%);
roots and tubers (33.0%); and fruits and nuts, including citrus (51.0%).
Source:  The National Export Committee:  Jamaica, A National Export Plan
1981-1983, February 1981.



50-                          Table 3
JAMAICA
- EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Agricultural Loans Outstandinig by Source
as of December 31, :L981
Amount           x         Target Group 1/
(J$ million)
Commercial Banks                  192..9          49.0  Mostly large-scale farmers
JDB                                21.5             5.5  Mostly large-scale fanrers
SSFDP                              44.0           11.2  Farmers Tlith 5 to 25 acres
MINAG Crop Lien Program            20.8             5.3  Small-scale farmers
Small Farmers Loan Program          0.4            0.1  Farmers with 0.25-5,0 acres
ACBd                               24.7             6,.3
- BCBs                     15.4           3.9          Small-scale farmars
- Direct Borrowers          6.5           1.7          Mediumr-to large-scale farmers
- Others                    2.8           0.7          Government Agencies
Commodity Boards                   89.1           22.6
- Tobacco                   0.8           0.2          Small-scale farmers
- Sugar                    84.0          21.3          Large-scale farmers & sugar estates
- Coffee                    1.3           0.3          Small- and large-scale farm.ers
- Banana                    3.0           0.8          Medium- end large-scale farmers
Total                             393.4          100.0
11 If no acreage figures are given, the general clasification is as follows: small-
scale farmers: up to 5.0 acres; medium-scale farmers: 5.0-25.0 acres; and large
scale farmers: o-er 25.0 acres.
Source: MINAG - Marketing and Credit Division: Unpublished.



- 51 -                                        Table 4
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Bank of Jamaica Limited
A. Actual and Projected Balance Sheet
5 Years Ending March 31, 1988
(J$'000)
Audited     Unaudited                              Projected
3/31/83      9/30/83       3/31/84      3/31/85     3/31/86      3/31/87     3/31/88
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                              3,715         1,871          7,046      24,234       29,978       37,232      26,458
Other Current Assets                 135          720          1,750       4,000        7,500        9,000      10,500
3,850        2,591         8,796        28,234      37,478       46,232      36,958
Loans
S.S.F.D.P.                          -             -           25,200      23,184       21,370       19,737      18,267
Commercial Banks                  5,280        13,091         47,146      81,812      112,478      139,144     167,810
P.C. Banks                        4,801        13,179         26,289      27,670       31,670       35,670      37,670
10,081       26,270         98,635     132,666      165,518      194,551     223,747
Less:  Bad Debts
Provision                    -             -           (5,040)     (6,040)      (6,040)     (7,040)      (7,040)
10,081       26,270         93,595     126,626      159,478      187,511     216,707
Investmaents                        -             234            400         700          750          750         750
Fixed Assets (Net)                   389          436            790          668         765          582         950
389          670          1,190        1,368       1,515        1,332       1,700
TOTAL ASSETS                      14,320       29,531        103,581     156,228      198,471      235,075     255,365
LIABILITIES AND EQUITIES
Liabilities
Current Liabilities                  192          237            350          550         550          550         600
Long-Term Liabilities:
IDB/IFAD                         -             -            3,262       7,500       15,000      19,000       23,000
CDB                              -             -             -           -          10,000      20,000       25,000
USAID                            -              84          4,084      10,084       20,084       31,000      35,000
IBRD                             -             -            4,000      14,000       24,000      32,000       36,000
CIDA                             -             -             -         15,000       15,000       15,000      15,000
Other - G.O.J.                   -          14,000         55,500      70,000       70,000      70,000       70,000
_         14,084         66,846      116,584     154,084      187,000     204,000
TOTAL LIABILITIES                    192       14,321         67,196      117,134     154,634      187,550     204,600
Equity
Share Capital                     17,165       19,516         47,650      49,650       51,480       53,113      54,583
Accumulated Surplus/Deficit       (3,037)      (4,306)       (11,265)    (10,556)      (7,643)      (5,588)     (1,818)
14,128       15,210         36,385      39,094       43,837       47,525      52,765
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY        14,320       29,531        103,581     156,228      198,471      235,075     257,365
LONG TEK4 DEBT/EQUITY RATIO             -          93:1          1.8:1         3:1        3.5:1        3.9:1        3.9:1



- 52 -                                       Table 4
Page 2 of 2
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS P.QOJECT
Agricultural Credit Bank of Jamaica Limited
B. Projected Incoma Statement
5 Years Ending Mar,h 31, 1988
(J$'000)
Audited      Unaudited                              Projected
3/31/83       9/30/83       3/3:/84      3/31/85      3/31/86      3/31/87     3/31/88
INCOME
Interest on Loans - PC Banks              51           346          1,261        1,770        2,027       2,283        2,539
Interest on Loans - Commercial
Banks                                 43            467         2,001        7,417       11,097       14,297       17,377
Interest on Loans - SSFDP                -             -              403        1,089          980          882          794
Other                                    743           166            297          300          300          300          300
837           979          3,962       10,576      14,404       17,762       21,010
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries and Allowances                1,898         1,092          2,730        3,058        3,425       3,939        4,530
Advertising & Public Relations            79            39             55           50           50           50           50
Telephone                                112            60            150          188          216          248          310
Electricity                               91            36            108          135          169          194         243
Payroll Expenses                          61            85            212          237          265          318         382
Office Rental                            394           185            370          392          431          474          521
Motor Vehicle Expenses                   127           101            240          300          375          431          496
Travelling & Subsistence                 365           232            415          540          594          683          785
Depreciation                              56            55            1.06         122          183          183          183
Other                                    691           430            760          800          880         946          994
Total Operating Expenses
before Interest Charges           (3,874)       (2,315)        (5,146)      (5,822)      (6,588)      (7,466)      (8,494)
Operating Surplus/(Deficit)
before Interest Charges           (3,037)       (1,336)        (1,184)       4,754        7,816       10,296       12,516
Interest Charges                         -             -           (  735)      (3,045)      (4,903)     (7,241)      (8,741)
Surplus/(Deficit)                    (3,037)        (1,336)        (1,919)       1,709       2,913        3,055        3,775



- 53 -                        Table 5
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Phasing of Estimated Crop Rehabilitation and Expansion
(in acres)
Pro ect Year     _       __
Crop                           1        2       3         4        5       Total
Sugarcane                   1,200   1,200   1,200    1,200    1,200         6,000
Bananas - Rainfed             750      750     750       750       -        3,000
Bananas - Irrigated           250      350     600       800      500       2,500
Citrus - Rehabilitation       400      400     300        -        -        1,100
Citrus - Replanting           200      400     600       600      200       2,000
Blue liountain Coffee          60      140     150       150       -          500
Coconuts                      600   1,000   1,000        700      700       4,000
.Leaf Tobacco                  100     100      100      100        -         400
OrnaL.ental Horticulture        9        9       9         9        9          45
Vegetables                I   100      100     150  _  200        200         750
.TOTAL                       3,669        44    4,359    4,509    2,809     20,295



- 54 -
JAMAICA                          Table 6
Technical Assistance Service
Expatriate Consultants
in Man/Month
Responsible                      Year
Agency      Total   1    2    3   4   5
1.  Extension Service
Bananas                                        BANCO          24    12   12   -    _   _
Citrus                                         CGA            24     6   12   6    _   _
Ornamental Horticulture                        MINAG          24     6   12   6    _   _
Vegetables                                     MI:NAG         24     6   12   6    _   _
Subtotal                                                    96    30   48  18    _   _
2.  Professional Services
Sugarcane - Irrigation Engineer                MINAG          24     6   12   6    _   _
Bananas - Research and Quality
Control Specialist                  BANCO          24      6   12   6         _
Citrus - Processing Engineer                   CGA             4    -      4   -    _   _
B.M. Coffee - Commodity Pricing Specialis    CIB              24      6   12   6    _   _
Cigar Tobacco - Processing Specialist          TICA           12     6    6   -    _   _
MINAG - Quarantine Specialist                  MINAG          12    -    -    6    6   _
Service Engineer                      MINAG           4    -      4   -    _   _
Glasshouse Specialist                 MINAG           12    -    12   -    _   _
Plant Protection Specialist           MINAG          24      6   12   6    _   _
Storage and Post-Harvest              MINAG          12      6    6   -    _   _
Specialist
Market Information Specialist         MINAG           18     6    6   6    -   _
Subtotal                                                   170    42   86   36   6   _
3. Institution Strengthening
Bananas - Management and Marketing
Specialist                          BANCO          24      6   12   6    _   _
MINAG - Project Management Consultant          MINAG          24    12   12   -    _   _
MINAG - Senior Management Consultant on
Export Policy and Strategy            MINAG          24    12   12   -          _
Subtotal                                                    72    30   36   6    _   _
TOTAL                                                      338   102  170  60    6   _



- 55 -                                   Table 7
JAMAICA,
EXP0FR CRDPS PROJECT
Anrmal Phasing of Project Costs
Base Cost (J$'000)                     Total '000
1984     1985     1986     1987     1988       J$         US$
Sugarcane, Replanting and EquipnEft       5,652    5,652    3,939    3,939    3,071    22,253       6,743
Banana, Rehabilitation                    6,798    8,439    9,142   10,275    4,416    39,070      11,839
Citrus, Rehabilitation and Replantirg     1,779    2,651    2,878    2,368    1,653    11,329       3,433
Blue Mountain Coffee, Planting              587    1,318    1,266    1,297       679     5,147      1,560
Coconmt, Planting                            87       299      384      592      806     2,168        657
Cigar Tobacco, Expansion of Production
Area                                     1,965      700      489      372      120     3,646      1,105
Ornamental Horticulture, Expansion        1,423    2,320    2,081    1,862    1,862      9,548      2,893
Vegetable, Expansion                        655    1,051       861    1,149    1,174     4,890      1,482
Plant Quarantine Facilities                1,414      580      193      170      -       2,357        714
Adaptive Research                           488       434      434      488       84     1,928        584
Project Management Unit                   1,334    1,066       845      845      864     5,954      1,804
Reserve for Other Export Crops              523    1,903    3,239    5,084    3,777    14,526       4,402
TOTAL BASELINE CODST                     23,705   26,413   25,751   28,441   18,506   122,816      37,216
Physical Contingencies                    1,027       536      301      196      136     2,196        665
Price Contingencies                       1,293    1,808    1,983    2,142    1,388    8,6145       2,610
TOTAL PROJECT C06T                       26,025   28,757   28,035   30,779   20,030   133,626      40,491



-56 -                            Table 8
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Disbursed    Cumulative    Balance
During         Amount          of
Calendar Year  Quarter Ending  Quarter           Disbursed        Loan
1984            June  30         0.5             0.5          14.5
Sept. 30        0.6             1.1           13.9
Dec.  31        0.9              2.0          13.0
1985            March 31         1.0             3.0          12.0
June  30        1.0             4.0           11.0
Sept. 30        1.0             5.0           10.0
Dec.  31        0.9              5.9           9.1
1986            March 31         0.9             6.8           8.2
June  30        0.8             7.6            7.4
Sept. 30        0.8             8.4            6.6
Dec.  31        0.7              9.I           5.9
1987            March 31        0.7              9.8           5.2
June  30        0.8            10.6            4.4
Sept. 30        0.8             11.4           3.6
Dec.  31        0.8             12.2           2.8
1988            March 31        0.7             12.9           2.1
June  30        0.6            13.5            1.5
Sept. 30        0.6            14.1            0.9
Dec.  31        0.6             14.7           0.3
1989            March 31         0.3            15.0           0.0
1/ Based on disbursement profile for Ban]k supported Agricultural Sector
projects in Latin America and the Caribbean.
February 16, 1984



JAMAICA
EXPORT (POPS PRjECr
AnnLal Input and Outp¢t Coefficients Per Acre I/
Orrarental Horticulture                             Vegetables
Bananas            Bananas             Citrus              Citrus          B!l                 leaf       Outdoor     lndor       Oal                                          Water-    Sweet
9garcane            Rainfed           Irrigated        Rehabilitation        Replanging      Coffee    Coconut    Tobacco    Foliage    Foliage    Flwaers    P,rlkins    Onions   Tbmatous    melon          Peppers
Pre-      Full     Pre-      Full    Pre-        Full     Pre-      Full    Pre-        Full    Ful        Full      FKil        Ful         Ful        Pull        Pull        Full       Pull        Full      Full
Inputs            Units    Project   Dev.   Project    Dev.   Project   Dev.   Project    Dev.   Project    Dev.    Dev.               Dev.       Dev.        Dev.       Dev.        Dev.        Dev.       Dev.        Dev.       Dev.       Dev.
Iabor                  m.d.       -          -        8        30        B         30       14        23        10        8.5    19           7.5       41.5        233        1,166      1,166         30          76         21          50        66
Mechanical
Oultivation           hr.         3       6        -         -         -        -         -        -          -         -       -         -            6.8       -           -          -             8            8.6        8.6        8.6        8.6
Seeds or Plants         J$        -         -         -        33        -        33        -         -         -         -       -         -            -                                             45           60         60          21        45
Fertilizer              kg        125     250       100       356      1(0       356        61       325       61       325      763       203         256        1,000        2,003      2,000       350          440        760        600        760
Plant Protection
Materials             J$        -         75      140       630      140       630        -        410        -       410      300         50        340        3,900       12,000     12,000       610        1,400      1,250        920        900
Harvestirg             m.d.         11      14        5        16        5         25        5.5      13        2         16.5    54.5        7.5       46          3/          3/         3/          3/          3/         3/           3/        3/
Padideg                 J$        -          -        -        -         -        -          -        -         -         -       -          -           -         -           -           -          430          500      3,600         580       600
Transport               J$         210     260       30        70       30        115        -        -         -         -       -          -           -         -            -          -           330         480        960         380       190
Other                   J$         80       80      138       770      135      1,00       150       185      145       290      540        330        495       3,600        11,600     11,600       330          560      1,110         410       335
Irrigation              m3      4,000   8,503         -        -        -      6,500         -        -         -         -       -          -       3,600       2,000         4,500      4,500     1,0I'        1,500      1,500       1,000     1,500
YIELDS                            21 T 26.5 T       3 T       9 T      3 T      14.5 T     105       255       40       320       100       816      1,400       7,000       143,000    148,000     6.8 T        5.5 T      18.2 T      13.6 T    6.8 T
hxzes     boxas   hoses      boxes    ros        kg 4,      1.          tips         ti_s      blocsn
I/ Preproject situation is presented only for rehabilitated crops.                                                                                                                                                                                              a
2/ At preproject without irrigation.
3/  Included in 'labor" itea
4/ GCpra equivalent.



JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Summary ot Financial Projections and Rate of Return
Blue
Bananas    Bananas          Citrus          Citrus     Mountain                   Leaf    Ornamental 1/
Sugarcane   RaInfed   Irrigated   Rehabilitation   Replanting    Coffee    Coconuts   Tobacco   Horticulture    Vegetables
Area of Production Unit Model (acres)              100         50          50             50              25            10         50          12            3              25
Number of Years to Full Development                   1         1           1              4               8             8         11           1            5/6             1
Total Investment per Model (J$S000)                259.0      191.9       436.3          101.6           119.3          87.7       65.0        42.1        621.1           275.5
Financial Analysis
Net Annual Return at Full Development
(a)  Without Project        (JSI'000)         13.0       3.8         3.8           41.0             2.8           -          -           -            -                -
(b)  With Project          (JS000)           58.0      34.5        69.2           96.0            72.3          62.0      165.9        11.3        485.2           427.0
(c)  Incremental            (J$S000)          45.0      30.7        65.3           55.0            69.5          62.0      165.9        11.3        485.2           427.0         °'
Flnznclal Rate of Relurn                         13.4       17.9        17.7           22.3            21.4          27.2     >50.0        21.9          24.4          >50.0
1/ Including three different varieties of ornamental flowlers.
Hr
(D



JAMA I CA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis (in USS'000)
1         2         3         4          5       6           7         8         9        10        11        12        13        14        15        16        17        18         19       20
IncrementaI Benefit Stream
Total Benefits                            -92    2,877    6,435    11,378   17,581  22,172    23,463   23,150   24,348   25,343   26,112   26,636   26,884   26,905   26,924   26,924   26,924   26,924   26,924   26,924
Operating Costs                           256     1,892    3,631      5,892    8,592   10,406      11,139   11,709   12,532   12,871    13,129    13,450   13,450   13,450   13,450   13,450   13,450   13,450   13,450   13,450
On-Farm Investments                     7,595    8,287    8,366    9,440    5,392          836        434       149        63       -       1,195     1,194       439       439       -         340       546        521       521       510
Net Incremental Benefits               -7,943   -7,302   -5,562   -3,954    3,597  10,930          11,890   11,292   11,753   12,472   11,788   11,992    12,995    13,016    13,474   13,134   12,928   12,953    12,953   12,964
Cost Stream
Investment in Infrastructure            1,207       442       167       151       -        241         66        54        11       -         357        97        54        11        10       241        54         54        11       -
Training and Studies                      256       179       107        66        69      -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -
Technical Assistance and Local
Technical Support                      810      1,167      681        380       230      144        144       144       144       144       -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -
Agricultural Research                      51        51        51        51        51       51         51        51        51        51        51        51        51        51        51         51        51        Si        51        51
O & M                                      81       106        74        52        52       52         52        52        52        52        52        52        52         52        52        52        52        52        52        52
Net Incremental Costs                   2,405     1,945     1,080       700       402      488        313       301       258       247       460       200       157       114       113       344        157       157       114       103         wo
Net Benefit Stream                   -10,348   -9,247   -6,642   -4,654         3,195    10,442    11,577   10,991    11,495    12,225   11,328    11,792   12,838    12,902   13,361    12,790   12,771    12,796    12,839   12,861
Internal Rate of Return - 21.4%



JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministly of Agdculture
Ar,ricultule 
I     .      ~     ~~~~~~~ rnoruntolry
Seretares
Rarnionenl
| Boord d Management  ||annrv &
& Advisory Committee                                                   Z |:rntr                     PolkV Rev
1 < 1  [    <      1         1      <     1      {   ~~~~~~~Data Emn
C'
~1              F-                       I
Reseorch & Deveispmoni  h.o?ng &  C;t;t lechnical Services                                                   Ptrodrctn & Extensmon
: |   Drvisbn   l   l   Divbon                      Division                                            Divsbn
Western R&D            Protect Eecullon  |       sttutoryPencwtsh             Stabilizatronl               [and                    Forestry&                  Western              Statutoo Agencies
rn   U | (Ccrnmnodlty Boards)l  {  Eaard 0 01Admnistratlon                    SodCnservatlon                 Region                  & Pro tn |
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(orojt Boardsi{ i){+
Centrat R&D                                         K4omtnc  irentlng        cOrgnoiatio  &          [ad DeeovetEngineering                                      nta                     fes
Blopoifin  _  _              nslnch                  nzatron n               & itIIlzCtktion             Division                  Region                  Coordinato
Docmentation             Dooo;nn                 Agilcultssat Credit           Ottice of                 Veterinary                                        Deecinn &
& Libraty    itionch                ~~~~~~& Stabltization          Tte                       iiinpo)Iann
SouhceniR&D a                                  |     Mrkaling              Q.ultyAsre                     Survy                    Gr Bardrns&               nSohein                   Ruali-24ly0
Region     r                                      nlormotaton                B  tranch   |      | DeaprtmnY4n    rzoo                                        Regitbn   r           Devobpmonen ||
Source~ tvnistry of Agircultme                                                                                                                                                          Varal t3n - 24608



-61 -                                          CHART 2
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Orgonization Chart of Project Management and Operatlons
PROJECT BOARD OF
MANAGE
HEADED BY P.S.
of MINAG
COMMODITY
MARKEflNG
& CREDIT                                          CREDIT BANK
DMSK>N
MANAGMEN__
_                           UNIT_ 
ACCOUNTING &                                              MONIFOR NG &
AJJDMIN                                                  EVAWATION
comE1    n
l    I
l~~~~~~~~ lI
FARMERS!                            __ _ 1        COMMERCIAL
_ _ _ _ Professbno Connections, Coordinating Reloktonlips & ExcharVe of Infomxftion.
VWbrid Bonk-24607



- 62-                                           CHART 3
JAMAICA
EXPORT CROPS PROJECT
Implementaflon Schedule
PROJECTYEAR
COMPONENT/ACTMIVTY
1           ~~~~2              3                 45
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
- Sugarcane - Replantlng               _        _   _
- Sugarcane - Equipmnent
- Bananas - Rainted
- Bananas - Irriated_
- Citrus - Rehabiltation
- Citrus - Reeplanting
- BM, Coffee - Plantation Establishment    _   _   _   _   _   _      _    = -   -      _   -         _
- Coconuts - Plantation Establishrment  _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _    _   =   _   =                _
- OrOmental HorHcutture Expansaion
- Vegetable - Expansion                _         _    _   _   _
ONFARM INVESTMENTS
- Tobacco - irrIgtio Equipment &
Structu res_ _ _ _ _ _
INFRASTRUCTURE St_ucture                                       _   _-_-_-_I
-           Bananas-Bxing Plants Upgrading  _   _   _
- Bananas - Wharf FacilitIs Rehablitatian _
- Bananas - Plant Protection Equipment
- Bananas - Radio Communication System
- Tobacco - Fermentary
- Plant Quarantine Faciiitles          -   -   _   -   -   _   -
- Shade Area & Cold Storage in Airpoct
SUPPORT SERVlCES
- Adtapthe Research
- Expatriate Extension Acvisors
- Local Extension Staff
- Expatriate Specialist Advss          -   -   -   -                r -    -        -        -        - -
- Expatriate Advisor to Project Manager  1 -        _ -             i
- Studies
- Middle Management Training
- Staff & Farmers Training                                                                                              -   -
World Bank-24641















________   -  7   -          _________   IE~~~~~~BRD      6942
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-;                                                                                                 -           iu t    - -N;  
WH                                      ,                                                    4                    ;                                                h -  I g f  t i_,.|
< i/;, Jp~                                               N        -                                          24               Nt-0m
OH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
[   . --grd-4d.    -. .S.>>-.-.   > .'4 -   . tj-.  r ' '   %   : '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4AI-    ~~-
Inn"                                                                                                                  -4;~~T-  -
F,. k  C-k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14(N 
-"    A   I   H     IN                                     -
;0   5;  slv w a > ; p [t, N-                 V/on,o,   lvi ;i;   D         Di  Lt -'                            -    Tn   N  A
I  ' L X 1rErndr s S ' + % W p S  s                                                                    N               'T" E R
Ziveot    ;  *;#    SXs',;';;ffi\ Li,;Sai; [ r', i;  n 2di;' 4. ZS                                -                - *                                                   k           i   H '
M~~~~~~~~h PVS                                  JA~ ,S      E      - 4P    v                         --  ---       -       nhu                     I    IA I     ii 
Cn~~~~~~np,d. -                                          n~~~~~~~~~~'X  F   'C RIHr                               N
I  -  I                          Srninon  %r4¶~~~~~~uiHun   A   Rrn     ~       ~      ~      W






________________:____:_________________:_______________________________SRD   1694a
SUGAR                                                                                                                                            BANANAS                                                                                                                                                                                                       OM;OOEESN   0 400
e                                                                                                                                                                                              00   0  v<    L   <  g    ;  j    3   *  ,   j    *- * j PV ->'.-2?lcti 0 :10 ; j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  0  0 0  0040
Ltoo    Moo,ogoMLr [R PORAN 00 04400          T              S00,, Tt IE Ams X' o'5                                                         boo4   ;;R  soooo
LlLO E.Ea,                                                                                                                                           .                                                                      9.4                                                                                                                           IOfTAS-E0OL  *,  10  .           I;          -A m , x%Ti fa
COFFEE     ST A MES                                                          00,
PE0005flM00                                                               T                                                                         TEL                                                                 G OWGA0
40000OD -x -S -n RLffN                                                   > <- P       Aro4                                                     Hath[                                                  'I   A N00M L                    000   *001 0o                                  40                          00               Coffe
A- /  -,   900000000           5T                                                                                                                                                                                       n------
5,000,  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,~~~~~I - P
S.                                                                                                                                                OW5 r  *AMA5, Cr .                                              0ho 0apfsbe)np  (-eA0RFesA00i;           0OEOO    44g,~vs.So' mn
SfLCOFFEE                                                                                                                                       CITRUS~EXPORTCROPAPROJ ECE   , 2f    f0__
SI A-,N'OOO B.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4Su0a4
P- 0A.-                                                                                                                                                                                  Suga, factories~~~~~~~~< <   0  -     o-00N140
COFFEE                                                                                     CiTRUS                                                                                                                                                              EXPORT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HCirOPsPRJC
4000.404                                         000, Ry                                                                        Eoo   9000LA40                                                                                                                                                              IIIII    Sga
OTT,  So  NOES   0                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0        Sugar factories~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-        Prshbonare
*05V X'-o7>.  -  K                                                                                                                                                                                                     Coffee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ---  nenaina     ondre



