Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7452-UR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Programmatic Reform Implementation 
Development Policy Loan
)
between 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 21, 2007
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7452-UR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 21, 2007, entered into between 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL 
URUGUAY (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on 
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time.  In the event that the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-
end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 days after the 
Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
Page  3
-2- 
 
a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II.B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions 
of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
Page  4
-3- 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent with 
the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than 
eighteen months (18) months 
after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on 
December 1, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Colonia No. 1089, Tercer Piso 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Cable: 
 Telex: 
     Facsimile: 
MINECON 
269 MICECON UY, Montevideo Uruguay 
(59-82) 1712-2688 
Page  5
-4- 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423(MCI) or 
(1-202) 522-3131 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  6
-5- 
 
AGREED at 
Montevideo, República Oriental del Uruguay, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
By /s/ Danilo Astori 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the
Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
A. 
The Parliament has approved the tax reform law
,
Borrower’s law number 18.083, dated 
December 27, 2006. 
 
B. 
The MEF, in collaboration with the DMV, has produced an overall strategy and an 
implementation plan for capital markets reform. 
 
C. 
The Executive has submitted to the Parliament for approval a bill on insolvency and 
corporate reorganization (a bankruptcy law) which includes liquidation and 
reorganization procedures. 
 
D. 
The MEF, in collaboration with the BCU, the AIN, the TCR and the CPNCA, has 
produced an implementation plan to improve information transparency. 
 
E. 
The Borrower has implemented its law number 17.139 of July 16, 1999 and its law 
number 17.758 of May 4, 2004 resulting in increased coverage of the non-contributory 
family allowance program, as evidenced by an increase in the number of children covered 
by such program from 184,252 in December of 2004 to 212,800 in December 2006. 
 
F. 
The Borrower and BPS have implemented a policy to increase coverage and collection of 
the formal social security system, as evidenced by:  
 
(i) 
the elimination of exception regimes for agricultural packing workers and taxi 
drivers; 
 
(ii) 
the enhancement of BPS’s enforcement policies, as described in the letter from 
the Technical Director of BPS to the Bank dated March 19, 2007; and 
 
(iii) 
the promotion of regularization of employers indebted to the system, through the 
enactment of the Borrower’s law number 17.963 of May 19, 2006. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end Fee and Premium for Interest Rate Caps and Interest Rate Collars) be 
withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is 
set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Single Tranche 
100,000,000 
Front-end Fee 
0 
Premium for Interest Rate Caps 
 
And Interest Rate Collars 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
C. Payment 
of 
Front-end 
Fee. 
 
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until 
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee, if the Borrower selects not to 
capitalize the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this
 account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. Audit.
 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
have the deposit accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the deposit accounts and 
its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
Page  10
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on April 15, 2017. 
 
Page  11
-10- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“AIN” means 
Auditoría Interna de la Nación, 
the Borrower’s national audit office within 
MEF. 
 
2. 
 “BCU” means 
Banco Central del Uruguay
,
the Borrower’s Central Bank. 
 
3. “BPS” 
means 
Banco de Previsión Social,
 the Borrower’s social security fund. 
 
4.  
“CPNCA” 
means 
Comisión Permanente de Normas Contables Adecuadas, 
the 
Borrower’s Permanent Commission on Adequate Accounting Standards created pursuant 
to the Borrower’s Executive Resolution No. 90/991. 
 
5. “DMV” 
means 
D
ivisión de Mercado de Valores y Control de Administradora de Fondos 
de Ahorro Provisional
,
the Borrower’s securities markets regulator, a division of the 
BCU. 
 
6. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
Page  12
-11- 
 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
golds
miths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
7. 
“Executive” means the executive branch of the government of the Borrower. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
9. “MEF” 
means 
Ministerio de Econom
ía y Finanzas
,
the B
orrower’s Ministry of Economy 
and Finance. 
 
10. 
“Parliament” means the legislative branch of the government of the Borrower. 
 
11. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated April 11, 2007 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
 
12. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  13
-12- 
 
13. 
“TCR” means 
Tribunal de Cuentas de la República
,
the Borrower’s supreme audit 
institution. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General 
Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
Page  14
-13- 
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
