Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7886
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 971-COB)
JUNE 20, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Technical Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COUIITRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency            "Communaute Financiere
Africaine" Franc (CFAF)
Year:
Appraisal Year Average (1979)             US$l - 264.78
Intervening Years Average                US$l = 385.96
Completion Year Average (1986)           US$1 - 346.30
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CORAF    Congolaise de Raffinage S.A
DH       Direction (or Directeur) des Hydrocarbures
DRP      Direction Recherches/Production
GOC      Government of Congo
HC       HydroCongo
-MHE     Ministere des Mines et de l'Energie
PM       Prime Minister
PRC      The People's Republic of the Congo
SNDE     Societe Nationale des Eaux
SNE      Socete Nationale d'Electricete
SNEA     Soc4te Nationale Elf/Aquitaine
SOCOREM Societe Congolaise de Recherches Minieres



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washin6ton. DC 20433
U.S A
Obce iE tOw.t&CUwaI
Opiatmas IvAmseitnn
June 20, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on People's Republic of the Congo
Petroleum Sec.or Technical Assistance Proiect (Credit 971-COG)
Attached, for information, is a cor. of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on People's Republic of the Congo - Petroleum Sector
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 971-COB)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a tricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank muthoization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 971-COB
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface . .................................................... i
Basic  Data  Sheet  ...........................................  ii
Highlights  ..............                ...................................  vi
I.     INTRODUCTION  .............                  ..................................   1
II.     PROJECT  'DENTIFICATION,  PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL  ....                            ......   5
Origin  of  the  Project  ...................................   5
Project  Preparation  and Appraisal  .......................   6
III.      IMPLEMENTATION  .............................................   8
Implementation  Plan  .....................................   8
Changes  In  Project  Schedule  ............................. 10
Changes  In Project  Scope  ................................ 10
Reporting  and Auditing  .................................. 10
Project  Costs  ...........................................  11
Disbursements  ...........................................  12
Performance  of  Consultants  ..............................  13
Performance  of Contractor  ............................... 13
IV.     PROJECT  RESULTS  ............................................  14
Technical  Assistance  ....................................  14
Promotion  Outcome  .......................................  16
V.     INSTITUTIONAL  PERFORMANCE  .................................. 18
Organization  and Management  ............................. 18
VI.      BANK  PERFORMANCE ........................................... 19
VII.      CONCLUSION  AND  LESSONS  LEARNED  ............................. 21
ANNEXES
1. Project Costs
2. Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
3. Cumulative Disbursements Curve
4. Contract Implementation Schedule
5. Subsidiary Loan to HC: Interest Computation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
MAPS
1. IBRD 14455R
2. IBRD 13959R2
3. IBRD 20005
I



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 971-COB
Preface
1        This is the Project Completion Repurt (PCR) for a Petztleum Sector
Technical Assistance Project in Congo, which the IDA helped to finance with
Credit 971-COB (US$ 5.0 million). The beneficiary was the Ministry of Mines
and Energy (MME) and to a lesser amount through a subloan from MME,
HydroCongo (HC) the national oil company.
2        MML completed the project, albeit with changes in scope and time
overrun, but witi' a negligible cost overrun ($2,768).  During the period of
project implementation (1980-1987), the main beneficiary, the MME, has seen
its institutional and technical capability considerably improved whereas the
subsidiary beneficiary, HydroCongo, did not reach the level expected at
appraisal time.
3        Approval of the Credit Agreement occurred on December 27, 1979;
signing, on April 11, 1980; and effectiveness, on August 5, 1980. The final
Closing Date was December 31, 1986 (as compared with the original Closing
Date of June 30, 1984).
4        The Industry and Energy Division of the Africa Technical Department
prepared this report based on information in the project files, without,
however, the benefit of a Government prepared completion report.
5        This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OE-).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on April 5, 1989, for comments by May
15, 1989, but none were. received.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 971-COB
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual as Z of
Appraisal                   Appraisal
Item                        Expectation       Actual    Expectation
Total Project Costs (USS million)         5.6             n.a.       n.a.
Credit Amount (US$ million)               5.0              5.0       100
Subsidiary Loan to HC                    n.a.             2.8        n.a.
Date Physical Components Completed       02.82            12.85
Proportion completed by that date (Z)  20               100
Economic Rate of Return                   n.a.            n.a.       n.a.
Financial Performance                     Poor             Better     -
Institutional Performance                 Poor            Better      -
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88
Appraisal Estimate
(USS million)          .5  2.5   4.5   5.0    -       -     -      -
Actual (USS million)       -   1.1   2.4   3.0   3.8   3.9   4.4   4.8   5.0
Actual as Z of Appraisal  -    44    53    60    76    78    88    96   100
Date of Final Disbursement: September 28, 1987
PROJECT DATES
Original Plan      Revisions          Actual
First mention in Files             -                -             Dec 1978
Negotiations                  June 1979         Oct  1979         Nov 16, 1979
Board Approval                Fall 1979             -             Dec 27, 1979
Signing (Credit Agreement Date)  -                  -             Apr 11, 1980
Effectiveness                 Jan 31, 1980          -            Aug 05, 1980
Closing Date                  Jun 30, 1984      Jun 30, 1985      Dec 31, 1986



STAFF INPUTS
FY73   fY79   FY30   FY31   FY82   FY8S   FY84   FY86   FY96   FY37   Tot l
Identitication/
Prep ratlon
Appral al
Negotiations
Supervision                                             87.6   10.9   24.1   10.9   13.S   16.4   115.2
Subtotal                nna.   n.e.   C..   na.   37.6   10.9   24.1   10.9   13.1   16.4   113.2
MISSION DATA
Date         No. of        Specilalnztlons       Performneo                Types of
ne./Lr.)      Per ons         RODr*sontQd            Rating       Trend    Problem
Idantification/Preparation   10/1978           3           EC/F/Ing                    _           _
Appraisal                     12/1978          2           FA/EN                       -           -
Post-Appralsal                06/1979           1          FA                          -           -
Supervision     I             02/1980           2          FA/ExpI
Supervision    11             06/19n0          2           FA/ExpI
Supervision   III             07/1960          2           FA/Expl
Supervision    IV             11/1980           1          Expl
Supervision     V             01/1901          2           FA/Expi
Supervision    VI             03/1981           2          FAjExpl
Supervision   VII             08/1981          4
Supervlolon  VIII             12/16"1          3
Supvervison    IX             01/1962           1          ExpI                        -           -
Supervision     X             01/1982          2
Supervlsion    Xi             04/1902          4
Supervision   XII             09/1982          2                                       -           -
Supervision  XIII             10/1982          2                                       1           2
Supervision   X1V             12/1692          1           Expi                        -          -
Supervision    XV             02/1983          2           FA/ExpI                     1           2
Supervision   XVI             01/1964           1                                      -           -
Supervision  XVII             06/1984          C                                       1          2
Supervision XVIII             01/198S          2           FA/Expl                     1          2
Supervision   XIX             02/1986           1                                      1           1
Supervision    XX             10/1965          2           FA/Expi                     1           1
Supervision   XXI             02/1986          1           Expi                        1          1
Supervision  XXII             02/1n96          1           Expl                        1           1
Supervision XXIII             10/19"6          1                                       2           1
Supervision  XXIV             10,11/1666       2           PE/Expl                     2           1
Supervision   XXV             02/1667          2           PE/Expl
Completion                    02/1986          1           Expl                        -          -



iv
OTHER PROJECT DATA        --
borrower:                       Governfent of People's Republic of Congo (RPC)
Executing Agen:lee:             Ministry ot Mines and Energy (MlE)
Hydro-Congo
Follow-On Prolects:
"am                       Second Technical Assistance Project, Part H, Petroleum Component
Credit Numer              276-COB
Amount (USt million)      4.0
Approval Date             September 29, 1988



v
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 971-COB
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       The IDA Credit under review, in the amount of US$5.1 million,
helped finance a technical assistance project to the petroleum sector to
strengthen the Government's management of the sector and to improve the
operating capability of HydroCongo, the national oil company. The
beneficiaries of the credit were the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) and
through a subsidiary loan, Hydrocongo, while the executing agency was MME,
which is in charge of all matters concerning hydrocarbons in the country.
2.       Congo has a rather large energy resource potential.  It possesses
significant hydrocarbon, hydroelectric and forestry resources. The
production of its petroleum reserves estimated to le between 1065 and 2050
million barrels, are the lifeblood of the economy. An extensive network of
tributaries of the Congo River provides a large hydroelectric potential,
which has yet to be totally assessed. Forested regions which include dense
tropical forests in the north, cover two-thirds of the land area. The
energy sector plays a crucial role in the development of the Congo because
the national economy is overwhelmingly dependent on the petroleum subsector.
The revenues from oil production and the public investments which they have
financed, have dominated the economy since 1979. By 1985, oil accounted for
about half of GDP, 90 percent of exports and nearly 70 percent of budgetary
receipts. The oil subsector is the only subsector that can be rapidly
expanded at no cost to the Governmentt as such it is the key to the
country's economic recovery.
3.       At project appraisal, oil production was only 52,300 b/d (2.7
million tons) and exploration was beginning to recover from an extended lull
due to disagreements between the Government and oil companies. Although
known petroleum resources were large, the production rate was low because
the recovery factor was low in the case of Loango and very low in the case
of Emeraude, both offshore fields. In this context, the Bank project had
the double objective of strengthening the Ministry of Mines and Energy's
capability to manage the petroleum sector in general, and of assisting in
the restructuring of HydroCongo, the national oil company, to make it more
efficient and improve its capacity to advise the Government on technical
matters. The first objective, after lengthy discussion almost throughout
the project, was modified because MME could access technical advice through
the Directorate of Exploration and Production (DRP) in HydroCongo, to which
the Bank project could provide specific studies as well as needed office
materials and equipment. The second objective was addressed by providing
assistance to HydroCongo through a subsidiary loan for: (a) implementing



vi
its restLucturing; and (b) technical assistance to finalize and audit
financial statements, to introduce a modern petvoleum accounting system
including a global comsuterized information system, and to help the DRP in
its role of monitoring oil partners and of reviewing and compiling
information received from active oil companies. A separate component
consisted of an aeromagnetic survey over the Cu--ette or Interior Congo Basin
to promote this region for petroleum exploration. Another separate
component was reserved for special studies requested by MME.
4.       Project implementation had a slow start due to MME's administrative
inexperience in IDA projects coupled with slow decision-making within GOC.
However, once the procedures were understood, project implementation
including the selection of consultants moved more rapidly. Because of the
change in objective concerning assistance to the NME (para. 3.11) and the
attending need to reorganize project implementation as well as the desire of
tne GOC to make full use of the credit, three closing date extensions were
necessary. All credit funds were disbursed.
5.       All surface and subsurface data concerning the Congo Coastal basin
which were on file at MME or HydroCongo and subsequently compiled from oil
companies' files, were organized and microfilmed to produce a database for
the basin's reserves study prepared by outside consultants. For the land
part of the Coastal Basin corresponding to the Kayes block (IBRD 20005), the
available information complemented with the results of a small airmag survey
was elaborated by in-house consultants and local staff, and the resulting
report was sold to interested oil companies. A promotion meeting, at which
the Bank was not present, took place in mid-September 1987 in Brazzaville
wit' some 10 companies attending. Bids for the Kayes block were due in by
October 31, 1987 and three groups of companies have negotiated the
exploration rights for one block each.
6.       The project also included a management diagnostic study of iC which
helped define the respective roles of the Ministry and the national company,
followed by the implementation of the restructuring recommendations.
7.       Although not all the project components were equally successful,
the two basic aims of the project - improving MME's capability to manage the
petroleum subsector, and reforming or restructuring the national oil company
- or, in a nutshell, - institutional strengthening, were achieved.
8.       The lessons learned from this project which can be applied to
similar lending o-erations by the Bank Group, are:
(a) that long term technical assistance is better assured through
established consulting firms than through individual consultants;
(b) redefinition of the project scope during the credit was detrimental
to its overall implementation;
(c) there should be close project supervision by Bank staff through
frequent missions (long missions do not pay since the Borrower is
distracted for too long a time from their daily tasks and it
becomes more difficult to secure their attention), as well as close
contacts with consultants and contractors;



vii
(d)  the potentiai benefits of special .raining activities ve-Rus on-
the-j b training are limited due to the severe constraints ffced by
the public sector as a whole, such as lack of funds and limited
availability of qualified personnel apt to benefit from special
training sessions; and
(e) to keep tiaely accounts of local costs or of subsidiary loans, it
is essential to secure Government and borrowing agencies agreLment
to accept accounting training for their staff. This was not the
case in the Congo, and the project accounts were not properly kept.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 971-COB
I. INTRCDUCTION
Energy Resource Base
1.01     The project under review was the first lending operation in the
petroleum sector of the Congo.  The PRC has abundant primary energy
resources - oil and gas, hydropower, wood. The energy sector plays a
crucial role in the nation's economy. The technically exploitable hydro
potential in an average year is estimated at about 50,000 GWH, but given
the small market for electricity, development of the large sites cannot be
justified. Estimates of total remaining producible petroleum reserves vary
from 1,065 million barrels with a low recovery factor to 2,048 million
barrels with a high recovery factor. Given these reserves estimates and
the current production rate of 120,000 b/d, oil production could continue
for 24 years to 47 years respectively. Wood reserves are enormous but
their exploitation is constrained by difficult access and terrain.
Petroleum products account for nearly 45Z of total energy consumption, and
the demand is satisfied almost entirely through the Pointe Noire refinery
operated by CORAW. The refinery, commissioned in December 1982, has a
modified capacity of 800,000t/year and processes around 570,000t of a local
heavy crude (27.50 API gravity) called Djeno blend. The refinery
configuration, basically a skimming plant, is not adapted to treating the
local crude to match the domestic demand profile, as it produces about 562
of heavy residual fuel which is sold at low price on the international
market. Gas-oil represents 53? of products consumption, followed by
gasoline (242) and kerosene/jet fuel (172); fuel 1500 and LPG account for
the balance. At project appraisal, all products were imported, as the
refinery went on stream at the end of 1982.
Institutional and Legal Framework
1.02     Organization.  The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) is in charge
of petroleum matters and oversees the activities in petroleum products
supply and distribution, in exploration and production. The MME supervises
the two public enterprises active in the petroleum domain, HydroCongo and
CORAF. HydroCongo was created in 1974 to take over distribution and
marketing organizations of international companies. A few years later, an
exploration and production directorate was added to help the Ministry with
exploration expertise and to participate in exploration/production joint-
ventures. HydroCongo, by decree, is the title holder of the acreage
relinquished by the two initial concession holders - Elf Congo in Pointe



- 2 -
Noire Grands Fonds (PNGF) and Agip Recherches in Madingo. HydroCongo is
also a carried partner with (i) Elf in the onshore Loeme; (ii) CONOCO in
Marine-2; and (iii) AMOCO in Marine-i (IBRD 20005). Until CONOCO's Viodo
discovery, there was no commercial discovery on HydroCongo's joint acreage
though three fields in Loeme permit have a very small and expensive
production. The Pointe Noire refinery, totally owned by the Government, is
operated by CORAF, a mixed enterprise (60Z HC and 40? SNFA). In the
agreement signed in 1981 between MME and HC on one side and SNEA on the
other, SNEA pledges to give initial financial help as well as technical and
commercial assistance for the contract duration (six years). The CORAF
contract which carries a sole supplier clause, has a cost-plus arrangement
which precludes any incentive to operate at low cost. Because the refinery
operating costs are extremely high and its yield of white products is low,
ex-refinery product prices are considerably higher than products import
prices.
1.03     Contractual and Fiscal Framework.  Petroleum operations of foreign
oil companies are governed by Exploration "Conventions" (Agreements) which
establish the fiscal framework - taxes on corporate profits range from 55?
to 75?, the mandatory participation of HC in the joint-venture from 20 to
50?, and the royalty, from 12.5Z to 17.5Z. All the current exploration
agreerments are governed by the 1962 Mining Law. A new Law promulgated in
1982, introduces only a few changes to the basic concession approach, and
production sharing is not considered. At appraisal, the GOC did not ask
for and, later during project implementation, turned down any Bank
assistance for improving the petroleum law or preparing a model contract.
The GOC had no obligation to furnish copies of new contracts which,
therefore, were not giver. the Bank missions.
Status of Exploration and Production
1.04     The Congo's total land area is approximately 342,000 km2 £-d the
offshore about 23,000 km2 (Map IBRD 20005). There are two petroleumn
prospective sedimentary basins, the Coastal Basin (about 28,000 km2) and
the Interior Central or Cuvette Basin (around 100,000 km2). These are
separated by the Mayumbe ridge lying to the wept of Brazzaville.
Geographically, the Coastal Basin consists of an onshore segment (7,000km2)
with little oil production so far, an offshore shelf area (0-200m) of about
7,800 km2 with abundant production, and a deep offshore (200m - 3000m) with
no production or commercial discovery yet.
1.05     Geologically, the Congo Coastal Basin is a folded wedge of
Cretaceous and Tertiary sediments on the west side of the Mayumbe ridge.
The thick edge of the wedge (in excess of 30,000 ft) rests on the ocean
floor and the thin edge is exposed on land. About halfway within the wedge
lies an evaporite layer (salt) varying in thickness from a few hundred to a
few thousand feet. Both the pre-salt or lower section and the post-salt or
upper section contain oil source-rocks and reservoir-rocks with appropriate
protection covers (seals). A favorable combinat.4on of folds and faults
with reservoirs has resulted in several hydrocarbon accumulations or
reservoirs, about 50 of which have so far been identified in the 12 known



- 3 -
fields. Ten zones with one or more reservoirs are currently produced, five
in the pre-salt and five in the upper section. The post-salt reservoirs
are generally of poor quality, whereas the more elusive pre-salt ones often
have good porosity and permeability characteristics, which may make for
good productivity (deliverability) wells. However, by far, the bulk of the
reserves lies in the post-salt section because most known structures were
found in this part of the sedimentary section, where the testing was easier
and cheaper. The structures above and below the evaporite are generally
not immediately superimposed.
1.06     The Central Pasin or Cuvette is the western part of the enormous
Congo Cuvette, an intracontinental sedimentary area of more than 1 million
km2 which mainly extends in Zaire. The Central Basin has an upper rock
section somewhat similar to that of the Coastal Basin but thinner and
resting on older rocks, which might be prospective for gas. The upper part
of the section is known to contain source rocks, reservoirs and protective
formations. Structures are assumed to be of the rifting type (horst and
grabens). Of very difficult access, this basin has not been properly
studied apart from a reconnaissance airmagnetometric survey, which was
financed under the IDA credit.
1.07     At appraisal in 1979, production from three fields (Pointe
Indienne, Emeraude and Loango) was 52,300 b/d or 2.7 million tons a year.
For the last year of the credit (1986), production reached a daily average
of 115,551 bbl or 6.0 million tons, from 9 fields. Two fields are
currently under development and production has started some time in late
1987. All the crude is pipelined to the Djeno Terminal on the shore at
about 30 km south of Pointe Noire. The Djeno blend (melange) is then
loaded on tankers in its greatest part or 1t.ported by pipe to the Pointe
Noire refiriery at the rate of around 11,000 b/d. The production potential
of the Congo is large, but until recently, none of the oil companies
operating in the Congo under joint-ventures with HC had discovered oil in
commercial quantities. At appraisal, the capability of MME and of HC to
monitor properly the oil activity, be it in exploration or in production,
was inadequate and needed to be rapidly enhanced. In this context, the GOC
requested assistance from the Association in financing technical assistance
including special studies.
Project Objectives
1.08     The main objectives of the project were to assist the Government
in its efforts to strengthen the institutions in the petroleum sector, both
at the Ministry level (MME) and at the national oil company level (HC). In
order to achieve these objectives, a project was designed consisting of the
following:
(a)   assistance to the MME to help monitor the activities of
operating oil companies, to help compile information and data
received from the oil companies and establish a database, to
support the Government during contract negotiations, and to
have a management diagnostic study of HC prepared;



-4-
(b)   assistance to HC in helping the implementation of the
restructuring plan, in providing technical assistance to the
exploration/productAon directorate and the
financiallaccounting directorate, and in training
professionals. This technical assistance was to be finanred
under the project through a subloan of US$750,000 from MME to
HC;
(c)   providing special studies including a geophysical survey of
the Cuvette (Interior) Basin as a preliminary step to
attracting foreign partners to this remote area, a feasibility
study for enhanced oil recovery in the Emeraude field, and
other studies in the oil sector.
1.09     This report is based on documents and reports existing in the
project's files and discussions with some consultants and Government
officials.



II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Origin of the Project
2.01     The first geological mission concerning petroleum exploration
reached the territory now called the People's Republic of the Congo (RPC)
in 1928. From then on, some 30 team-months were spent on field geology
until December 1949, at which time SPAFE (now E!f) was granted a 40-year
exploration permit over the entire territory. Gravity, electric and
refraction seismic surveys were initiated in 1931 and stratigraphic
drilling in 1933. Activity came to an end in 1951 with no exploratory well
ever drilled. A new exploration permit was granted in 1956, and
airmagnetometric and new seismic surveys were run leading to the selection
of the first drilling site at Pointe Indienne on the coast, 15 km to the
north of Pointe Noire. This first well was a discovery (1958) and
additional drilling continued until 1961. The first offshore well, Congo
Marine-1, a dry hole, marked the end of activity, not cou ting the small
production of Pointe Indienne, until the current oper_tors (Elf Congo and
Agip Recherches Congo) signed in November 1968 the agreements under which
they are still operating.
2.02     Soon thereafter (1969) Elf Congo made the offshore Emeraude
discovery. Agip made the next discovery in 1971 in the Loango structure
which straddles the concessions' line. Elf and Agip entered into a cross-
interest agreement (65/35). The development of the two discoveries proved
to be difficult and slow, and production was not commensurate with reported
oil-in-place reserves. The Government realized the need to understand the
situation, and after some attempts at using technical experts, finally
turned to the Bank for support in the institutional strengthening of its
petroleum sector.
2.03     The IDA identification mission found tnat there was a need to
accelerate the exploration and the development of petroleum resources and
to strengthen the Government capability to manage the development of the
sector. Therefore the initial mission findings concluded that a possible
project could consist of:
(i) the financing of two or three onshore wildcat wells through on-
lending a Bank loan of US$10 million to Elf (Later, IFC was asked
to consider financing these wells);
(ii) a reconnaissance geophysical survey in the Central (Cuvette) Basin
to attract oil cumpanies;
(iii) technical assistance to the MME;
(iv) feasibility study for an enhanced oil recovery pilot on the
Emeraude field.



- 6 -
2.04     Items (ii), (iii) and (iv) would be financed under a US$4 million
IDA credit. Later on, the first component of the loan for wildcat wells
was dropped both by IDA and subsequently by IFC because negotiations
between IFC and Elf had come to a standstill.
Project Preparation and Appraisal
2.05     An IDA mission prepared and appraised the project in June 1979 in
light of the project objectives mentioned above. The scope of the project
consisted of the following five components:
Part A - Assistance to the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME)
2.06     The MM5E technical assistance component was intended to strengthen
the Ministry's capability to:
(i) play properly its role in the petroleum sector in respect to
HydroCongo and other active oil companies;
(ii) negotiate new exploration ventures;
(iii) monitor their implementation;
(iv) review and analyze technical and financial data submitted by oil
companies;
(v)  establish appropriate policies in the sector; and
(vi) prepare a diagnostic study of HC in view of its strengthening and,
if needed, restructuring.
2.07     It was proposed to finance a team composed of a petroleum
geologist, a geophysicist, a petroleum engineer, a contract specialist and
a financial expert for a two-year period. This team would also assist
HydroCongo under Part B below, as required. Local counterparts had to be
assigned to each expatriate.
Part B - Assistance to HydroCongo (HC)
2.08     This component was intended to assist HC with the restructuring
plan based on the recommendations of the diagnostic study as per Part A, iv
above, and to provide financial experts and training programs.
Part C - Geophysical Survey in the Cuvette Basin
2.09     This survey would cover the unexplored Cuvette basin so that it
could be promoted for exploration to the oil industry.
Part D - Enhanced Oil Recovery Pilot on Emeraude
2.10     The feasibility study of an enhanced oil recovery pilot project
would permit to determine whether a full fledged project could improve the
expected recovery, (a factor of 3Z only) of the large amount of oil-in-



- 7 -
place in the offshore Emeraude Field which is owned by Elf and Agip. The
purpose of this item was to find a way to speedily increase Government's
petroleum income.
Part E - Special Studies
2.11     Additional studies related to strengthening MME's capabilities in
the petroleum sector were provided for under the project. These included:
oil and gas reserves study, products pricing study, valuation of Djeno
blend, improving international sales, status of regional refineries, review
of marketing options, etc.
2.12     Credit negotiations were held in Washington in November 1979 and
the Credit was approved by the Board on December 27, 1979.
2.13     The Credit became effective on August 5, 1980, and there were no
special conditions of effectiveness. Delays in securing the legal opinion
and approval of the subloan to HC explain the eight month lag between the
date of approval and the date of effectiveness.



- 8 -
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Plan
3.01     The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) managed the project through
the Coordination and Orientation Directorate. External advisory assistance
was provided by a management firm on a temporary and as-needed basis. The
Ministry fully participated in all the project decisions and in monitoring
the main activities. A Subsidiary Loan Agreement, originally foreseen in
the Credit Agreement, was entered into on October 28, 1980 between MME and
HydroCongo, the commercially oriented parastatal, so that HC could fund the
cost of Part B of the project, i.e. its rehabilitation. The idea of
onlending part of the credit proceeds to HC at commercial rates was imposed
by the Bank, also with the objective of providing the Government with an
additional source of funds (this may be construed as a special tax). The
terms and conditions of the subloan were as follows: amount - US$750,000;
annual interest rate - 14Z on disbursed sums; duration - 10 years including
a 3-year grace period; interests, commitment charges and bonus payable in
two yearly installments as they accrued. The money was spent for this
purpose and in line with the project objective. Indeed HC's restructuring
costs amounted in the end to considerably more than the initial allotment
by about US$2,124,500 (Annexes 3 and 5). However, HC never repaid any
charges nor any of the principal borrowed despite numerous remonstrations
by Bank missions.
Technical Assistance to the MME
3.02     After proper selection, a manage ent consulting contract was
signed in February 1980, but became effective in April 1980 with the
signing of the Credit Agreement.  It ended with the submittal of a -Anal
report in January 1981.  The task of the consultant was to:
(a)   review the existing set-up in the petroleum subsector and
prepare recommendations regarding the respective roles and
responsibilities of the Ministry and the national oil company
HydroCongo;
(b)   carry out a diagnostic study of HydroCongo in view of iden-
tifying deficiencies and the requirements for outside
assistance to solve the problems; and
(c)   prepare a restructuring plan.
All these activities were diligently carried out in a satisfactory
manner. Both the Ministry and HydroCongo management who was very much aware
of its shortcomings in terms of management metbods and systems, collaborated
fully.
3.03     Since a team of individual specialists for the technical assistance
component for Part A could not be rapidly assembled and the MME did not want
to have recourse to an expensive firm after some disappointing previous



- 9 -
experiences, MME decided, in agreement with IDA, to set aside this component
and instead make use of HydroCongo's technical pool strengthened by foreign
specialists. This decision reserved approximately US$1 to 1.5 million,
which, together with the decision to use up the Credit funds for additional
support to HC, is the main reason the Credit was extended by three years.
3.04     The purchase of office and field equipment was limited to copying
machines, mini computer and other hardware, software, typewriters, filing
materials, vehicles, and finally Landsat tapes. Concerning this last item,
in 1980 MME had the intention of purchasing all 23 scenes that cover the
entire territory of the RPC, but only 11 tapes were deemed useful (less than
50 percent cloud coverage) for photogeologic and mining interpretations, and
subsidiarily for forestry monitoring. Although at the time the Landsat
satellite had passed its useful life, there was hope it could be restarted
in order to attempt getting better quality coverage, and therefore the tapes
were not processed. Since the Landsat satellite could not be restarted and
the following satellite generation was cancelled, the project eventually had
to be abandoned.
Technical Assistance to HydroCongo
3.05     The mar-dgement firm contract to implement the restructuring plan,
which was designed and presented in the Diagnostic Report under Part A of
the project, was signed in April 1981, initially for one year. The
consultants were required to implement the recommendations including the
restructuring plan elaborated during the diagnostic phase. In particular,
the intervention of the consulting firm was to review the activities, wck
force, job description and organizational chart of each of HydroCongo's
departments, namely General Direction (DG), Exploration/Production (DRP),
Distribution and Sales (DDC), Planning, Human Resources, Finance and
Accounting (DFC). Task-forces were set-up to prepare in-depth reviews of
these questions; the task-forces were manned by selected employees under the
guidance of the consultants. Results were presented in a three-day seminar
organized by MME in Loubomo. The conclusions of the seminar were that
certain changes in managers were desirable over the short-term as a follow-
up to a personnel evaluation study, training at managerial level was
urgently needed, and new objectives should be defined for the company, such
as international petroleum products supplies and sales, budgeting, internal
auditing and setting-up a global database management system. The consulting
firm's contract was extended several times until end 1985 to supervise the
realization of the above objectives and to implement a training program.
This program consisted of seminars on economic studies, operations,
supplies, sales, management at mid- and high-level, budgeting, etc.
3.06     An auditing firm was hired in 1981 to audit HC's accounts.  The
firm, in order to have balance sheet and other financial statements to
audit, first had to help prepare these documents. The 1982 financial
statements were finally produced eighteen months after the closing of the
fiscal year, and the 1983's some 10 months after.



- 10 -
3.07     An accounting firm was hired in 1982 to assist the financial and
accounting direction (DFC) in its daily tasks and to straighten-out the
accounting system. In 1984 the senior adviser was requested to head the
DFC. The firm's intervention lasted one year beyond the moment when IDA
funding ceased to be available for this category. HC took charge of the cost
for its own account.
3.08     A geophysicist and a petroleum geologist, hired through direct
contracting, reinforced the DRP team for approximately three years (para.
3.03). They helped prepare interpretations to attract oil companies to
explore the Central Basin (Cuvette) and the Coastal Basin.
3.09     An engineering firm supported HC petroleum engineers during joint
technical meetings with Elf, the owner of the production rights, on the
Emeraude steamflooding pilot project, prepared special reports on onshore
Loeme drilling and gave advice when solicited. The contract was signed in
1983 for a two year period and a one year extension was later agreed upon.
Neither Elf nor the Government communicated to the Bank the results of the
pilot project, but the fact that the project was still under implementation
in 1987, tends to indicate that it was at least successful in part.
Changes in Project Schedule
3.10     Initial delays were due to lack of familiarity by the Borrower with
the Bank procedures. At the onset of project preparation, delays in
selecting consultants were due in part to poor preparation of submitted
proposals. Therefore the airmag specialist was selected belatedly after the
airmag contractor selection was already made, but on time to assist in the
contract negotiations. The fact that the MME decided to use the services of
HC technical staff rather than hire their own set of consultants (geologist,
geophysicist, petroleum engineer, contract specialist) together with the
fact that HC hired the services of qualified individuals rather than the
services of a firm, led to considerable savings (para. 3.03).
Changes in Project Scope
3.11     The main change was due to a decision by MME to spend the bulk of
the credit funds on HydroCongo's restructuring and rehabilitation, rather
than on petroleum specialists to be employed for its own support in
administering its duties (para. 3.03). The restructuring effort turned out
to take more time than initially expected and more costly too. The
management consulting firm, the auditing firm and the accounting firm all
had their contracts extended once or twice at the request of the customer.
HydroCongo decided not to use the training component since they were
receiving some assistance from Mobil Oil, Elf and Shell through HC employees
being trained on their premises in Europe. HydroCongo also chose not to
purchase materials and equipment, because they had enough funds of their own
to use for these purchases.
3.12     Training.  A formal training program would have been desirable, but
was not put in place because: (a) it was not clearly agreed from the
outset; and, (b) the need was not recognized by the authorities and by
potential trainees.



- 11 -
Reporting and Auditing
3.13     Quarterly and Annual Reports have not been received by IDA for any
of the years after 1982. No audit report of the project accounts have ever
been received despite several requests. Although missioxus have been told
that the Congolese project officer was working on the preparation of a PCR,
no such document has ever been received. Furthermore, neither the final
audit report nor the local expenses' summary have been receii-d.
Procurement
3.14     During most of the project duration (1980-1987), the MME complied
with Bank procurement guidelines as requested by the missions, for there is
no procurement schedule in the Credit Agreement. The technical assistance
contracts (management diagnostic study, airmag survey, accounting, auditing,
exploration consulting) were all awarded on the basis of selections made
upon technical merits of proposals received from IDA-approved short lists of
consultants. The Association approved each of the selections and also each
of the appointments made on the basis of direct contracting, after due
review of the situation.
3.15     Procurement for the Kayes airmag survey in 1986 was carried out in
such a way as to take advantage of the presence in Congo of a well known
airmag contractor working for another oil company, who could diligently and
timely undertake the small survey at low incremental cost. This survey was
urgently needed to prepare the Kayes blocks promotion. The negotiated
contract price, however, appeared higher than anticipated under the
circumstances. Nevertheless, IDA decided to approve the contract because
its timely execution was indispensable for the "ayes acreage promotion.
3.16     Bank procurement procedures appear to have created no problems to
the MHE. For a first time borrower, MME complied fairly well with the
Bank's guidelines, although the Credit Agreement did not oblige to observe
them.
Project Costs
3.17     The following table compares the actual project costs with the
appraisal estimates. A more detailed presentation of costs is in Annex 1.
Pro3ect Costs Table
US3 Mi IllIon 
Appraisal                                      Actual
Local  Foreign  TotaT                        Local  Foroign  Total
T.A. to UME         .160  1.060   1.200    T.A. to MME                    .380
T.A. to HC          .160   .660    .700    T.A. to HC                    2.547
Geophysical surveys   .200  2.100   2.300    Geophysical surveys         1.0l4
Emeraude enhanced                           Emoraido enhanced
recovery studies    -    .326    .326       recovery studies            .219
Traning and other                           Training and other
studioes            -    .560     .660      studies                     .803
Subtotal        .600  4.67S    6.076        Subtotal                6.003
Contingencies       .100  .426    .626   Contingencies                    -
Total               .600  5.000    6.600    Total                        6.003



- 12 -
The large amount of technical assistance to HydroCongo was needed to
undertake the institutional rehabilitation of the parastatal and help
consolidate its financial situation, by implementing a reorganization of the
accounting and financial directorate. However, the reorganization efforts
had only little effect on sanitizing HC financial situation because o,
extraneous political and social factors.
3.18     The project was completed with an estimated cost overrun of US$2,768
in foreign expenditures and, since the GOC refused to furnish even an
estimate of local expenditures, it is not possible to make a firm statement
on total project costs. However, IDA's own estimate is that the GOC
contributed to the project in considerably greater amounts than it had
committed (US$ equivalent 600,000). The excess in foreign expenses was due
to accounting mix-up resulting from long delays in payment of bills, and it
was taken care of through the following project which had a follow-up in the
same activity (software acquisition). As to the apparent overrun of local
expenditures, the GOC explained it as being an indication of its interest in
the results of the Bank financed project.
Disbursements
3.19     The disbursement schedule prepared during appraisal (Annex 2) was
modified to incorporate the changes in the scope of work as well as to
reflect the unavoidable delays in project start-up, and the extensions of the
closing dates.
Cumulative Credit Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year                 Appraisal Forecast            Actual
80                               .5                      _
81                              2.0                      1.07
82                              2.0                      2.4
83                               .5                      3.08
84                              -                        3.8
85                              -                        3.96
86                              -                        4.45
87                              -                        4.85
88                              -                        5.00
3.20     Disbursements started in the second quarter of FY81 almost four
months after credit effectiveness and a full year after Board approval.
Since the project scope was modified more than once, disbursements lagged
correspondingly. At the end of the original closing date, only 76Z of the
credit had been disbursed, and at the end of the first extension (June
1985) only 79Z had been disbursed (Annex 3 - Cumulative Disbursement
Curve). Two percent of disbursements were made beyond six months after the
closing date, upon the RVP's agreement to allow disbursements to continue
for another three months.



- 13 -
Performance of Consultants
3.21     Most of the consultants - the management firm, the accounting
firms, the independent geologist, the engineering firms performed
commendably.
Performance of Contractors
3.22     The airmagnetics acquisition and processing for a total cost of
US$1,054,000 were all executed satisfactorily without undue problems other
than normal field problems.



- 14 -
IV.  PROJECT RESULTS
Technical Assistance to MME
4.01     The management and diagnostic study of the petroleum subsector
resulted in sharply distinguishing the respective roles of the Ministry and
of the national oil company HydroCongo (HC).  The study established that
the Ministry is responsible for policy and strategy, and for the
supervisory control of state-owned enterprises operating in mining, oil and
gas, power and water, namely SOCOREM, HYDROCONGO, SNE and SNDE. The
general manager of each of these enterprises reports directly to the
Minister on the implementation of the policy prepared by the Ministry and
adopted by the Government.
4.02     The structure adopted for MME as a follow-up of the study is as
follows:
-   the Minister is assisted by his Private Office (cabinet) which
performs administrative tasks, and by two general-secretaries,
each heading two directorates: one covers Mines and Hydrocarbons,
the other Energy-Power and Water. Because of the importance of
petroleum for the nation, the Director of Hydrocarbons (DH)
reports directly to the Minister.
4.03 The MME's functions cover:
(a)   planning and implementation under overall Government guidelines of
national policy on economic development;
*h)   setting guidelines for the activities of the parastatals under its
supervision;
(cc   preparing and seeing through to approval, legislation specific to
the activities of its parastatals;
(d)   supervision of the technical and overall performance of parastatal
and independent companies in the subsector;
(e)   ensuring that its parastatals follow general legislation,
particularly on procurement; and,
(f)   supervising the parastatals' finances including approval of their
budgets and financial statements, in parallel with the State
Controller's office.
4.04     The sysLem put in place upon the management consultant's
recommendations is working well and represents a real improvement upon the
previous loosely organized system.
4.05     At the instigation of the Government, a program agreement ("con-
trat de programme") was prepared and was to be concluded between the
Minister and the General Manager of HC. Under that agreement the



- 15 -
parastatal company was to become independent from the Ministry and acquire
financial and managerial responsibility. However the agreement, although
approved by the Prime Minister was not signed because all parastatals
including HC are shortly expected to adopt standardized financial
agreements under the Bank's Public Enterprises Institutional Reform
Project, and these latter agreements will sapercede the original program
agt ement.
4.06     Special studies such as the one on Coastal Basin petroleum
reserves, petroleum products pricing review, valuation of Djeno Blend,
international sales report, review of options - "one or two gasoline
types," etc, have had an important bearing on molding MME's approach to its
management of the petroleum subsector. The creation of a General
Directorate of Petroleum staffed with eager young engineers has been an
important step forward for the management of the petroleum subsector. Now,
for instance, MME is capable to participate fully in negotiations with
exploration companies, and in monthly crude price fixing discussions, it
also can relate, in regional meetings, at equal levels with other producing
African countries.
Technical Assistance to HydroCongo
4.07     HydroCongo has the monopoly of petroleum product distribution
throughout the country. It operates as a commercial concern, while subject
to some public interest constraints. HG has been entrusted with the
following specific tasks:
(a)   ensuring the supply of petroleum products to meet domestic demand;
(b)   managing distribution operations efficiei. .y at least cost;
(c)   implementing the objectives assigned to it in the framework of
each National Plan, particularly in the policy of opening up
isolated areas ("desenclavement"). Most of the bulk transport of
products, however, is undertaken by the ATC, another parastatal.
4.08     Institutional Rehabilitation.  The diagnostic study recommenda-
tions and the ensuing restructuring effort were carried out under the
management consultant's supervision by five task forces. The restructuring
plan was set in motion in early 1983 with the implementation of the
recommendations arrived at by the respective task forces. The main
achievements are:
(a)   reorganization of the general manager's office and its staff,
including the replacement of the most obviously unsatisfactory key
personnel and the establishment of efficient reporting lines and
methods;
(b)   preparation of first 5-year development plan;
(c)   reorganization of the accounting department and the accounting
system, including the setting up of representations for



- 16 -
(i) the purchase of materials and petroleum products;
(ii) the control of financial operations;
(iii) the recruiting of personnel and their training;
(d)   the streamlining of the distribution/marketing and of the
transportation operations;
(e)   the reviewing of the Zatchi field's proposed scheme and cost,
which resulted in decreas4ig the development cost estimate from
US$450 million to US$300 million;
(f)   preparation of job description for managers and supervisors;
(g)   establishment of guidelines and procedures to decrease product
losses;
(h)   preparation of recommendations to cut down excess personnel or at
least to introduce a freeze on hiring new employees;
(i)   privatization of service stations (the implementation of which
started in 1983); and
(j)   training of supervisory personnel.
4.09     All the items here above except one (h) had beneficial effects on
HC.  The recommendations (h) to cut down personnel or at least freeze the
payroll were ignored by the GOC, given the tripartite system prevalent in
the Congo (The Party - The Union - The Company).
4.10     The main unfinished business, at the time funds allocated to HC
ran out, was the installation of a global management system for
information, particularly in accounting. HC, however, funded the
completion of the consultant's work and the purchase of modern hardware and
special software out of its own resources. Now such an Information
Management System (IMS) is in place and operative at least in the
accounting/financial directorate.
4.11     Additional achievements were obtained:
(i)    in the Exploration/Production Directorate (DRP) through the
assistance of a petroleum geologist and a geophysicist;
(ii)    in the accounting directorate through the assistance of an
accounting firm for the preparation and auditing of 1982 and 1983
accounts.
4.12     Promotion Outcome.  The preparation for the promotion of the
Central Basin (Cuvette), and of the offshore and onshore areas of the
Coastal Basin, was carried out by HydroCongo's DRP for the Ministry with
the assistance of its exploration consultant. The Central Basin has been
difficult to promote particularly due to its remoteness and hostile
environment, and, until the time of this writing, has not had any taker.



- 17 -
The offshore blocks which lie among producing fields   (about 120,000 bld)
were bid for by companies such as CONOCO and AMOCO. The three onshore
blocks of Kayes acreage were promoted according to a procedure established
by the Bank over the course of several projects but, at the request of the
GOC, without Bank intervention. The Kayes promotion resulted in 15 oil
companies attending the meeting in the Congo and in six companies
presenting offers for the three blocks. All three blocks are under
negotiation at the time of writing. The terms and conditions have not been
made privy to the Bank.
4.13     In summary, most of the project's goals were met, the Ministry
responsible for petroleum matters has been strengthened, the national oil
company has been reorganized and made operationally more effective, even
though, from the financial viewpoint, HC is still not creditworthy;
privatization of service stations was undertaken in 1983 already; difficult
acreage (Kayes blocks) has been successfully promoted and the GOC
capability to monitor oil companies' activities has been developed. Only
the overall financial situation of HydroCongo remains an issue, to the
extent that the parastatal has not yet reached profitability, though for
1986 there was a small profit before debt consolidation.



- 18 -
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Organization and Management
5.01     At the time the project was appraised and for the initial phase of
its implementation, the Minister of Mines and Energy was directly involved
with the running of the national oil company of which he was the President.
The management consultant's intervention resulted in establishing
respective domains of activities, with clear and practical separate
responsibilities and structures.
5.02     If, at the beginning of project implementation, MME had
difficulties in several aspects of the project (procurement, selection of
consultants, bookkeeping and withdrawal requests), these were eventually
resolved and decision making and project execution became reasonably
efficient.
5.03     Most of the Credit Conditions were complied with.  Reporting,
however, especially on financial performance and on the audit of the
project entities' accounts, was unsatisfactory.



- 19 -
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
6.01     The project was properly identified and appraised.  During its
implementation, the supervision missions reviewed the project's scope and
suggested changes in order to streamline its execution and make the best
use of available funds. However, it is quite possible that some more
inquisitiveness of HC finances on the part of supervision missions, might
have resulted in somewhat improving HC financial situation. Furthermore,
the several changes of project officers did not make for better
understanding of the critical areas (such as HC financial situation) and
for keeping relations with the Borrower on a steady good standing.
Finally, it should be noted that the relations between IDA and MME were
often strained partly because of the perceived incompatibility of the
Government's ideological bent withb the Bank's posture on economic policies
and partly because the MME has been bearing a grudge against the Bank ever
since the potash project fiasco in the 1970's.
6.02     Nevertheless, a reasonable modus operandi prevailed at the working
level between MME and IDA throughout the entire project cycle. Possibly
the most significant IDA contribution was a thorough evaluation of all
aspects of HC's operations and recommendations for its reha'Žilitation.
6.03     The project was periodically supervised during its implementation.
IDA staff undertook 25 missions between February 1980 and March 1987 for an
average interval of around 3 months between missions. The frequency and
timing of the missions were necessary for the staff to assess the
activities in progress and to express their views and recommendations on
the project implementation. The experience from this project shows clearly
that under conditions similar to those prevailing in the Congo and because
of the rather complex nature of the petroleum industry, a high frequency of
brief visits is very important to ensure appropriate implementation of the
project.
6.04     The Bank, at the request of the MME, prepared shortlists of
consultants and assisted in the preparation of the various terms of
reference necessary to hire the consulting firms and individual
consultants. During implementation, IDA, in consultation with MME, also
maintained close contacts with the various consultants financed under the
project in order to ensure that the work programs were adhered to and that
the output met quality standards. The experience from this project
demonstrates the benefits to the Borrower from close IDA supervision of the
consultants' performance, in view of the fact that the consultants normally
do not have the Bank's country knowledge, and that many consultants are not
familiar with the complex procurement requirements of the Bank.
6.05     The project was well justified by its results, even if some
benefits are not obvious. HC's role and responsibilities have been defined
clearly and separated from those of the Ministry. However, HC's financial
situation could not be improved. This is due to the special Congolese
environment, where the Government and some of its agencies routinely carry
over mutual arrears from one fiscal year to the next and where sumptuous
expenses (extravagant headquarters' building) meet only approving pride.



- 20 -
The WME has been considerably strengthened through direct or indirect
assistance (reports) in order to manage the petroleum subsector more
effectively. The purchase of equipment such as computers and software, and
the training of their correct use have contributed to the MME
strengthening.
6.06     Finally, whether the project was satisfactorily designed can be
questioned. The Bank should have satisfied itself of the Government's
commitment to the project as designed; this would have avoided (para 7.04)
the need to redefine the project in the course of its implementation and
would have permitted a more effective use of the funds spent.



- 21 -
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
7.01     The main goals of the project was to strengthen the Government
capability to manage the petroleum subsector and rehabilitate the national
oil company. The results of the technical assistance component of the
project are encouraging particularly as regards HydroCongo. HC now takes
active participation in various exploration joint-ventures on newly taken
blocks. EC is still not considered eligible for commercial borrowings;
nevertheless, partly thanks to its strengthening under the project, it has
been able to enter or is about to enter into financial agreements with its
joint venture partners, who carry HC during exploration, but expect HC to
contribute its share of development costs from the time of commercial
discovery. Under the terms of these agreements the oil companies would
furnish the financial backing or give the necessary guarantee to cover HC's
financial obligations. So far the only apparently commercial discovery
(between 20 and 100 million bbl of reserves) is that of CONOCO in Viodo.
In short the need to strengthen the GOC's petroleum sector management was
partly attained, but additional assistance is still needed, particularly
since the restructuring of a subsector is a long and exacting labor.
7.02     On balance, the efforts to promote foreign investments to explore
for new hydrocarbon reserves in the Congo, and to improve the recovery rate
of known reserves, have been satisfactory.
7.03     Although the number of supervision missions is rather high (3.5
per year), this was money well spent, given the complexity of the project,
the problems affecting the national oil company and, at least at the
beginning of project implementation, the difficult external communications.
7.04     The training activities under this project were essentially limit-
ed to on-the-job training either in the Congo or overseas in firms prepar-
ing studies. Greater effectiveness of the training component would have
been achieved, however, if a comprehensive and well thought-out training
program had been developed and agtred with the Government from the outset,
instead of relying on the consultants' recommendations during the
implementation of the project, whose scope was changed in mid-stream.
7.05     In retrospect, the Bank should not have agreed to change the
design of the Technical Assistance program for the MME, which was to be
provided by an established consulting firm, but was eventually entrusted to
individual consultants lacking coordination, and who were, anyway, very
difficult to find. This crucial decision led to many of the implementation
difficulties that stood in the way of the project success.
7.06     The project achieved most of its objectives despite the fact that
not all covenants were met. In some cases, there would have been
sufficient reasons for stopping the credit: this, however, would have
jeopardized the long-term benefits of the project. One example is the
refusal by MME to collect the unpaid interests (which accrued to US$
625,738 as of January 01, 1988) and charges as well as the principal
installments concerning the Subsidiary Loan Agreement which was part of the
Credit Agreement (para. 3.01). Stopping the disbursements would have
resulted in bringing the restructuring efforts to a halt.



- 22 -
7.07     Fir.ally, the project's overall effectiveness would have been
greatly enhanced if its design had encompassed the entire petroleum
subsector in a comprehensive manner. Particularly constraining has been
the fact that the project did not address the refinery and distribution
system's izsues, and did not assist the Government in revising petroleum
legislation and fiscal aspects. However, this was due to the Government's
express wish to circumscribe the scope of the project to support on-going
efforts to promote exploration and development of hydrocarbon resources,
and therefore, the project's ability to make the Congo's petroleum
subsector more effective was significantly curtailed by this limitation.
l



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 971-COB
PROJECT COSTS IN U.S. MILLION
Appraisal                                                              Actual
Local  ForeiRn  Total                                                 Local  Foreign  Total
Part A                                                                Part A
Technical Assistance to MHE         .150   1.050   1.200         -    Technical Assistance to MME           -        -
Hydro-Congo Diagnostic Study          -       -        -                 Hydro-Congo Diagnostic Study            200,000.00
Training Program                      -     .200    .200                 Material and Equipment                  180,337.40
Part B                                                                 Part B
HC Restructuring Implementation   .150    .550    .700                 HC Restructuring Implementation         1,348,224.71
Technical Assistance to HC                                             Technical Assistance to HC                235,850.60
EDP and Financial Assistance                                           EDP and Financial Assistance to HC        666,782.45
to HC Audit of HC financial                                           Audit of HC financial statements           289,680.59
statements                                                          Training                                     6,065.79
Part C                                                                 Part C
Cuvette Airmag Survey               .200   2.100   2.300               Cuvette Airmag Survey                   1,053.603.00
Part D                                                                 Part D
Steamflooding T.A.                   -      .325    .325               Steamflooding T.A.                         218,971.69
Part E                                                                 Part E
Special Reports                      -      .350    .350               Special Reports                               -
Coastal Basin Reserves Study                                           Coastal Basin Reserves Study               798,079.74
Petroleum Products Pricing Study   -          -        -               Petroleum Products Pricing Study   -              -
Beicip Study                         -       5,171.98
Subtotal          .500   4.575   5.075
Contingencies    .100    .425    .525                                                        _
TOTAL         .600   5.000   5.600                                                       5,002,767.95



- 24 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 971-COB
Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
(in USS 000)
Fiscal Year                                           Actual as
and Quarter             Appraisal          Actual   Appraisal Z
1980
lst Quarter
2nd Quarter
3rd Quarter
4th Quarter                  500
1981
1st Quarter                    -
2nd Quarter                                  645.3            43
3rd Quarter                    -             846.9            42
4th Quarter                2,500           1,066.9            43
1982
1st Quarter                3,000           1,419.5             -
2nd Quarter                3,500           1,685.0            48
3rd Quarter                4,000           2,188.2            55
4th Quarter                4,500           2,387.2            53
1983
1st Quarter                4,600           2,645.9            58
2nd Quarter                4,700           2,740.2            58
3rd Quarter                4,800           3,053.2            64
4th Quarter                5,000           3,077.9            62
1984
1st Quarter                    -           3,457.6            69
2nd Quarter                    -           3,632.9            73
3rd Quarter                    -           3,635.5            73
4th Quarter                    -           3,778.4            76



- 25-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Fiscal Year                                             Actual as
and Quarter              APpraisal          Actual    Aopraisal Z
1985
1st Quarter                    -           3,883.4            78
2nd Quarter                    -           3,883.4            78
3rd Quarter                    -           3,956.0            79
4th Quarter                    -           3,956.0            79
1986
1st Quarter                    -           4,287.4            86
2nd Quarter                    -           4,287.4            86
3rd Quarter                    -           4,445.7            89
4th Quarter                    -           4,445.7            89
1987
1st Quarter                    -           4,701.7            94
2nd Quart:r                    -           4,701.7            94
3rd Quarter                    -           4,701.7            94
4th Quarter                    -           4,846.1            97
1988
1st Quarter                     -     5,000,000.0            100



- 26 -
ANNEX 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit 971-COB
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
A. List of Contracts:
Contract
Consulting Firm                      Signed         Ended          US$
ADL, Paris                            02/29/80a/   12/31/85  1,548,254.73
INTEX, Philadelphia                                             116,060.84
CGG, Massy                            08/14/80                   981,925.16
Core Lab, Dallas                      04129/81      03/31/87    798,079.74
Dr. J.W. Schroeder, Geologist              /82           /85    113,489.71
Claude Anger, Geoplysicist            1l/--/81           /84    122,360.95
Pavie & Assoc., Paris                 11/02/82      02/28/86    666,782.45
Arthur Young, Paris                                              289,680.59
Gruy & Assoc., Houston                02/18/83      02/18186    218,271.69
Beicip, Paris                             n.a.          n.a.       5,171.98
TOTAL                                                    4,860,077.84
B. Expenditures According to Categories:
Allocated     Expensed
Category  1                             $3,500,000   $2,406,142.04
Category  2                                750,000    2,593,857.96
Category  3  (unallocated)                 750,000           0
TOTAL                             5,000,000    5,000,000.00
C. Amount of Credit spent on Hydro-Congo:
Total                           US$2,874,499.28
Subloan amount                  US$  750,000.00
Excess above subloan            US$2,124,499.28
a/   Implementation of contract could not start before the signing of the
Credit Agreement (April 11, 1980).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CONGO
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CREDIT 971-COB
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS CURVE
U.S. 'Million
5.0 _
4.0
3.0 _
2.0
/~~~~~d                        0
/~~~~~~~~~~~~c a1                               a      0 
1 . O                                                 U _J /  Oc
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  t     ;o
/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~s  0t OQ 
0                     ~~~
I~~~                                ~      ~      ~     ~~~ **   0  .  a
i981  1982      1983          1984                           1.' 
FISCAL YEAR                                     1983         1984         '1985          1986        L1987         '1988



- 28 -                                       s
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 971-COB
SUBSIDIARY LOAN TO HYDROCONGO
INTEREST COMPUTATION IN US$ AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1987
A - Terms and Conditions
Interest 14Z per year + other IDA charges payable twice yearly;
* Principal to be repaid in two yearly equal installments starting after
a 3-year grace period.
B - Disbursements in favor of HC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
W/A I    Valid Date        USS    No. of Days              Interest
Cumulative
24       09/18/81      105,000.00     2264         92,446.6          92,446.6
25       09/18/81       77,679.12     2264         68,392.15        160,838.75
28       10/27/81       92,592.29     2225         80,118.05        240,956.80
31       02/05/82      116,585.49     2126         96,390.29        337,347.09
32       03/18/82       16,168.15     2085         13,109.67        350,456.77
33       03/16/82      169,752.99     2087        137,773.41        488,230.18
36       0a/16/82       62,382.00     2085         50,581.40        538,811.59
37 a/    05/06/82      150,711.21     2035         86,926.12        625,737.71
Total        790,871.25                 625,737.71
C - Total of amounts due by HC to MME as per Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
at January 01, 1988:
Principal          US$750,000.00
Interest               625,737.71
Total            $1,375,737.71
a/   Since the Subloan is US$750,000.00, there is an excess of US$ 40,871.25
in the amount needed to come up to Subloan amount; this then requires
that only US$ 109,839.96 be taken into account for the computation of
the interest.



_                             tarshnt>             14-                      5w;                 16- >S 'l--                                                ' i 
- /@s"te                                    1            CENTRAL AFRICAN  RE1LIC
r \ t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol 1   r__Ie'I 
A FR IC A   X                               F\                                                  <_|-o   
EquaL~,,ita*"\ /                                                                                                                  r'N,
R. of        I f\
CAMEROON                                        <   /                                           0
-7^----F --3 '                                                                                                                                        a °
2'A
-2.   [   5   °ouonkd 2-
< i                                                                                                                UESSO                       MPFOND; 
-.    POPULATION  DISTRIBUTIOIN            S' IMOD
V     DISTRIBUTION DE LA POPULATION
0  1000-2000                                                                                                                                   y K
0 500-3000
0250-500
NUMBER OF INHABITANTS                                                 Z                                                   -     W
NOMBRE D'AIBATS                                                                                                            ,, - ,
300,000                                                                                        27
('<9                 ~~~EQ/A TOR'.                          tu,-"                                                                   ______
301000
SOURCE. JEUNE AFRIGUE, 1977                                                                                   ablA
'2-~~~~s} ,S//ggd0 g 2-
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
Nn\\  M-        POPULATION  DISTRIBUTION
DISTRIBUTION DE LA POPULATION
sJA tSSENDJ9t ri %-<- g v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY ROAD, PAVtED
-ARTERt PR,NC,PALE, PAVEE
X.                                         W-    r    Ngomo                                                    noX;bX -    1 zf  PRIMARY ROAD, A  GRAVEL AND EARTH
ARTERE PNA   GRAVIER ET TERRE
/  okohono                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDARCY ROZ  EARTH
-                      ROUTE SECONOAIRE.UT   TERRE
C.                                                                                                     A          -i----F-  RAILWAY /CHEMIN    P iER
Ki,do,nb                                 at~ RIVERILUV
y"d.i                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~MARSH  AMARAIS              4
8 L;~i                             N(A2-J                                          BRA! AVILLE                      LIMZT! REGIONALE
tl-Luo1t.... 'OO                                                                            INTERNATIONAL EOUNDARY
-~~ I           Ki~~Mon.   -~FRONTIER!E INTERNATIONAL!
m                       --.'.                              '                                                                55        300      150       200        250     1
-                             -" ''                  '-                                                                                 KILOMETERS                          a
OIT  ,-  AN  OL)        ~       'odoKoyes 
w  GIBE                                                                              ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 50  100  5
-                     ~~~~~~~Z AIREMILES                                                                                                    t
'7,                                                          4'~~12                                     16



I B R D  14455R
l                     ;tE4T~~~~~I~"A7 ARN WR fI,                                                                       I                                                              ts2A  a
CAMEROON                                                         G   A   B   0   N
( ,' 9  /  >                     ,/            PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF THE CONGO
,)44   -ie  ;,/  j  \       r                  THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
i   \   , ,                                        >                  .           Ts                                    |     | tP~~~*m   OOLOEETIO0  eiT
G,       Kr                                                                      '                      A   oIL  fUMP  ORUIOL                MAM ND
P                              -                                            .00110~~~~~~~~~.- _0L  00  000 000
GAB     , .                                                                                             /  _      _OIL 000t10Nes                      An             ELF DCONMCOOG
_ S                                                                                        N.                   \; OR EAORTPYRORCCO 0000to LoSe                  'o   00
USiAI E  00000                                 EL' 00000
*00-~~~~~~~~~~~EL 00
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.00   "00100 .                                               j  OIPO  e|\W AdAffCONOo 00f C0C
-7 ~          ~ U-1es L                                                         0        I                 t'- 
0_-IE.                    p~~LEOOA        000000000
10'  1  1P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A. pc
100                                                                                                          :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LF 00
11111 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1AG                                  1
i~~1jI   ~                        (ANGOLA)L /EV      1
Ai~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
Ii~~~~~~~~u1L    ME' ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      AN           LA
II  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Ii~~~~~!.I,MRTM
0l00S~~  A  00  20  20                                                  '----Z-A I   R   E
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



___________________________/__,k_                                                                                                                                                                                 lORD   20005
CENTIAL AFEICAN ERPUILIC
CAMEROON                                                           G A B O N
_X    n---_  w1                      /                                  .(.                          /,
I                        -S                                                                                A      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OIL PUMP TERMINAL
.UI0A                                                                                                                    PEOPLEn   S REPUBLIC  OF THE CONGO
GUINJA  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d/R\                                                                                                         n--       OIL PIPELINES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OI PPLIE
ENERGY ASSESSMENT                                                       SURFACED ROADS
JA N  /7               i                                                      \ '*                   PETROLEUM   SUBSECTOR  REVIEW -PUNSURFACED ROADS
G A E. O N           PEOW S 9EPLFLIC N,. r~                                                                                                                                               ... F_ \@    RAILROADS
tEFE SFRIC/                                                                                                                                                                    ISOBATHS IN METERS
t  THIECOHGO  f             Mumbo7                                                                                                                                        + T   MAJOR SE? PORr
t-_-; ^~~~~~~~- *_   \4   X    /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~>   \                                  KILOMETERS                                           +       INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT~~~~~~~~~~+   NTRNAIOAL IROR
C      CITIES
COASTAL                                        Na.bi 0    10   20   30   40   SO
S | -FASIN   j4/ A I R t         e                                                                                                                                 .t gtKolo  EDGE OF  EXPLORATION PERMITS
Sr JoII.                                                                            BASIN               0          0        20LE  30                                            NAME              HOLDER
SIN rA.                                       AD)GC                                                                                                                                    HAUTE MER          HYDRO CONGO (15%)
-   OA                                          -A I                                                                                                                                                         ELF CONDO (85%.
INlU . r;;     ARIT                                                                                                                                     LA IOEME           HYDRO CONGO )IS1X
2DIN  A2                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELF CONDO IRS%I
MAF > V W MADINGO MARITIME AGIP RECHERCHES CONGO 105%D
Al, A2. A3. a     ELF CONDO I35%I
MARINE I          AMOCO (50     5C
POINTE-NOIRE      LEE CONGO 165%)
LOA                                                                                                         G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RANDS PONDS  AGIP RECHERCHE$ CONDO 135%)
Madi.0                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~ ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARINE It  CONOCO 150%,
HTODRO CONDO ITS%I
j  /,$  LOEME  <           '    S 4,\                    >'\              [=| PRODUCTION PERMITS.
[|'4F   59></   \MAt!TIME    t   Halil y   /    t  _                                \                  NAME              HOLDER
'NTE /  -                                \      :                                         *0  It INEMERAUDE  ELF CONDO i65%I
I  ONDS                           ?NE) ENNE                                    CABINDA                                                          A D IP RECHERCHES CONDO 135%)
,'I            (A\fMEF   fNGOLA)                              LI K(EDUALA       ELF CONGO 151)
YANGA-    ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     0 f~4j '~CtAGIP RECHEFRCHES~ CONDO (35%)
/                                      YARI                                                                                                                                  LCANGO            ADIP RECHERCHES CONGO (150%)
u                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELF CONDO 050%)
POINTS INDIENNE    ELF CONGO
YANGA-SENDJI       ELF CONGO 165%)
AG IP RECHERCHES M35%)
30             /                                                                                                                                                                                     TCHIROUSLA         ELF CONDOE15%)
50-                                 AGIP RECHERCHES 135%
\                                                                                                                                                                                                               EL  CO D   )R)|KA E
EMeRAU                                                                           ~~~~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZATCHt  AGIP RECHERCHES 1GO'.')
MENDO             ELF CONDO PRFOD
HYDRO CONDO 05%)
/                                                                                                                                              L~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNDJ)  ELF CONDO 855%)
Z A  I1 RE                                        HYDRO CONDO 15%)
KOLIALA                                                                                            BIND)              ELF CONDO (80%A
/                                                                    EAUJTE M                                                                                                                    AREAS NCR ATTRIBUTED
KATE S
MARINE Ili, IV. V
MER PROFONDE
abinda                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EISS
*OIL
OAS
V""                                                                                                     -  -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
6                                                                                                                                                                                  6
SEPTEMBER I9S6



