                                                                                                        94122
Lao PDR: Avian and Human Influenza Control and Preparedness Project                                   April 17, 2012




 Preventing Contagion by Controlling Disease Outbreaks:
 Lao PDR’s contribution to the Global Program for Avian Influenza
 Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response


Overview
Control of avian flu outbreaks in poultry is important because it can reduce pandemic risk. The
impact of a pandemic would be devastating to the world economy and would hit the poor in
developing countries the hardest. The authorities in Lao PDR rapidly prepared a program to
strengthen their capacity for surveillance of animal diseases and containment of outbreaks.
Better public knowledge of avian and pandemic flu and training of veterinary and health
workers would encourage prevention and reporting of disease. Should a pandemic occur,
preparedness would reduce its impacts. As a result of this project, Lao PDR responded
effectively to contain several avian flu outbreaks. Because avian flu did not spread, there have
been no reported human cases of the disease in Lao PDR since 2007.




Challenge                                              MULTIMEDIA
After 2003, outbreaks of H5N1 avian flu surged
in several Asian countries. In Vietnam, which
shares a long border with Lao PDR, nearly a
fifth of the entire poultry stock died or was culled
in 2003 in disease control efforts. Lao poultry,
which is a staple for most of the population as
well as an important source of income, was
clearly at risk. However, the veterinary services
could not carry out adequate surveillance and
control of the disease because they lacked
people, equipment, training, and other resources.
The country had only a few veterinarians. If
avian flu was allowed to spread in poultry, it
would have more opportunities to mutate.

A mutation making the virus transmissible among humans              More Results
would have potentially catastrophic consequences for Lao
PDR and the rest of the world. Controlling the virus at the


                                                                    100%
source in poultry was therefore an imperative. Most of the
country’s 20 million poultry are raised in small units: an
average village has some 350 chickens and other poultry,
raised by 78 families, while about 25 percent of the country’s      of provinces in Lao PDR have
                                                                    established multisectoral avian
poultry production is on commercial farms near cities.              influenza teams to mobilize in
                                                                  case of an outbreak

Detecting and controlling H5N1 avian flu would only be
possible with farmers’ cooperation. The authorities,
concerned that a pandemic (affecting people in all countries)    MORE INFORMATION
should not start in Lao PDR, asked for help from the
                                                                   Avian and Human Influenza
international community. As one of the poorest countries in
                                                                   Control and Preparedness
the region, Lao PDR lacked the financial resources to              Project
respond adequately to a highly probable outbreak in poultry,
putting at risk not only farmers’ livelihoods but, should a        Country Website
mutation occur, also human health, the country’s economy,          Country Overview
and the populations and economies of the rest of the world.
                                                                   Country Assistance Strategy

                                                                   Data and Statistics
Approach
The program was multisectoral: it was jointly prepared and
implemented by the veterinary services, public health
departments, communications department, disaster risk
management unit and other organizations, under the overall
coordination from the office of the prime minister. The project was part of the “Global Program
for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response,” which the
World Bank used to support avian flu control and pandemic preparedness in 60 countries. The
essence of the Bank’s approach was to emphasize pandemic prevention and to work with
partners at the country, regional, and global levels. Extinguishing the source of a potential
human disease in animals could prevent human illness, deaths, and the severe economic
disruption that a pandemic would bring. Prevention in turn required that human public health be
concerned with the source of the risk, which was in poultry, outside the health sector.

In Lao PDR, as in many developing countries, this was the first time that external assistance
was provided to animal health services since this had not been a donor priority. These services
still require substantial strengthening. Communications was also a key component, to increase
farmers’ awareness of disease risks and to encourage their cooperation with prompt reporting
of disease and culling (compensation was provided for animals destroyed in the interest of
public health). While the project was an emergency one, training and other capacity building
were included, since the risks of animal-borne diseases are rising in developing countries,
including Lao PDR. The project took advantage of the high international attention and
additional resources to make progress in animal disease detection and control. The project also
supported pandemic preparedness.

Results
Key outcomes from September 2006 to June 2011:



      All 17 provinces have established multisectoral avian influenza teams (surpassing the
      end-of project target of 85 percent of provinces having established such teams). These
      teams mobilize in case of an outbreak and are an essential component of preparedness
      for rapid and appropriate reaction to outbreaks. The effectiveness of the teams was
      reviewed as well as tested in actual avian flu outbreaks.

      All provinces have elaborated and adopted avian influenza and pandemic preparedness
      plans (surpassing the end-of-project target of 85 percent of provinces having such
      plans). These plans were tested in the 2009 H1N1 flu pandemic; in part thanks to the
      plans and related preparedness, the impact of the pandemic was very small.

      By 2010, biosecurity and biosafety training for: 73 percent of backyard farmers in the
      three most populous provinces (starting from a baseline of 0 in 2006), 12 percent of
      farmers in the 14 other provinces (reaching the target), 100 percent of commercial
      producers of chickens, and 100 percent of commercial producers of ducks. Surveys of
      Knowledge, Attitudes, and Practices showed increased knowledge, which is essential for
      disease prevention, detection, and control.
      Biosecurity training delivered to 305 slaughterhouses (compared to a target of 181), 733
      poultry traders, and 1,556 fighting cock owners.

      Active disease surveillance established in 156 markets, entailing inspection at least twice
      a month (surpassing the target of 150 markets).

      One hundred percent of diagnostic tests were carried out within 48 hours of reaching a
      laboratory and 100 percent of samples reached a laboratory within 48 hours of the
      disease outbreak. Rapid diagnosis is a crucial step in disease control. Delayed
      diagnostics lead to delayed control measures, increasing the risk that a disease
      outbreak will spiral out of control. An animal health laboratory is nearing completion,
      augmenting Lao capacity to identify pathogens that threaten people, livestock, and/or
      wildlife.

      At least two village veterinary workers were trained on avian influenza prevention,
      symptoms and response in 73 percent of villages. Avian flu prevention training was
      delivered to 5.5 percent of markets (compared to a target of 2.3 percent) and 16 percent
      of villages (compared to a target of 25 percent of villages).

      Health workers received training on disease surveillance, infection control and case
      management. The trainees were tested, including through role-play, showing that
      training was effective.

      Health departments in 94 percent of provinces now send weekly surveillance reports
      (compared to an end-of-project target of 75 percent and baseline of 0).

Beneficiaries
Four avian flu outbreaks were successfully contained in Lao PDR, so that the disease did not
spread. The risk of emergence of a pandemic, which would have affected the whole world, was
lowered because Lao PDR did not allow the H5N1 virus an opportunity to mutate. It is
impossible to know whether the virus would have mutated had these outbreaks not been
contained.

As an intermediate output, the project put a spotlight on the acute weaknesses of public
veterinary health services. However, with more robust support in the years to come, these
weaknesses can be remedied to the benefit of the people in Lao PDR, the region, and the rest
of the world. The policy dialogue with IDA and evaluation of the performance of Lao veterinary
services, carried out during the project period with OIE assistance, are essential contributions
to a future program to ensure prevention of animal-origin diseases, including those with
pandemic potential.

Bank Contribution
The project was supported by an International Development Association (IDA) grant of US$4
million. Co-financing was from the Avian and Human Influenza Facility (AHIF) grant of US$6.4
million, and the Japan Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund grant of US$2
million. Both the AHIF and the PHRD grants are Bank-administered trust funds. The AHIF is a
multi-donor facility with contributions from ten donors, of which the European Commission is
the largest.

Partners
IDA worked with in-country donors, the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), and the
United Nations (UN) agencies and organized annual joint implementation reviews to identify
gaps and overlaps. This coordination was appreciated by government and partners and
established a good model for joint work across sectors. IDA provided regular reports to donors
to the AHIF, and some donors participated in scheduled in-country reviews. The Food and
Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO), the Australian Agency for International Development
(AusAID), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the World Health
Organization (WHO), CARE, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), the United States Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, the European Commission, the Asian Development Bank, OIE, the International
Organization for Migration (IOM), and the UN System Influenza Coordination are among the
partners who worked with the government to implement the program, which benefited from total
external support of US$35 million. These partnerships and engagement at ministerial
conferences on animal and pandemic influenzas helped Lao officials improve their knowledge
of disease prevention and control in other countries and globally.

Toward the Future
The project-supported improvements in capacity and equipment/facilities will serve well to
contain future disease outbreaks, which are unfortunately likely to recur. Improved knowledge
among people about the ways to protect themselves and their poultry will continue to be
relevant. However, substantial additional resources are needed to establish and operate a fully
effective disease prevention and control capacity. The Lao authorities have decided to adopt a
One Health approach, focusing on containing infectious diseases at their animal source in
order to protect humans. The government is currently seeking support for strengthening the
country’s animal health services and related human health systems and the way they work
together.

The response to avian and pandemic influenza was an example of international community
mobilization to deliver a global public good. The two major shortcomings are that governments
and donors pay little attention to sustainability and that they grossly underestimate the
pandemic threat. As a result, pandemic prevention and preparedness are not being financed,
so the modest capacities created during the international response will degrade and ultimately
disappear.
