                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                Report No. 29122




                 SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                      ON A LOAN TO

                                 REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                         FOR THE

       FIRST PROGRAMMATIC HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REFORM OPERATION

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.0 MILLION

                                        LN 71730-EC


                                       JUNE 29, 2004




Human Development Department
Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                           GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 - December 31

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                               Currency Unit = US Dollar

                       ACROYNMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

AUS      Aseguramiento Universal en salud           Universal Health Insurance
BDH      Bono de Desarrollo Humano                  Conditional Cash Transfer Program
BE       Beca Escolar                               Conditional Cash Transfer Program for students
BS       Bono Solidario                             Unconditional Cash Transfer Program
CGP      Conjunto Garantizado de Prestaciones       Guaranteed Health Care Services
CPM      Conjunto de Prestaciones Mínimas           Minimum health care services

DINEPP   Dirección     Nacional    de    Educación
         Popular Permanente                         National Office for Permanent Popular Education

GDP      Producto Interno Bruto                     Gross Domestic Product
GOE      Gobierno de Ecuador                        Government of Ecuador

HDRL     Programa de Reforma de Desarrollo
         Humano                                     Human Development Reform Program

HDRP     Préstamo de Reforma de Desarrollo
         Humano                                     Human Development Reform Loan

IESS     Instituto Ecuatoriano del Seguro Social    Social Security Administration
IMF      Fondo Monetario Internacional              International Monetary Fund

INNFA    Instituto Nacional de la Niñez y la
         Familia                                    National Institute for Children and the Family

ISSFA    Instituto del Seguro Social de las Fuerzas
         Armadas                                    Social Security Administration for the Military

LMG      Ley de Maternidad Gratuita                 Free Maternal Health Care Law
LOI      Carta de Intención                         Letter of Intent
MEF      Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas          Ministry of Finance
MEC      Ministerio de Educación y Cultura          Ministry of Education

MODERSA  Proyecto de Modernización de los
         Servicios de Salud.                        Health Sector Modernization Project

MOH      Ministerio de Salud                        Ministry of Health
ORI      Operación Rescate Infantil                 Early Childhood Development program
PAE      Programa de Alimentación Escolar           School Feeding Program
PAI      Programa Ampliado de Inmunizaciones        Immunization Program

PANN     Programa de Alimentación y Nutrición
         para Niños                                 Feeding and Nutrition Program for Children

SELBEN   Selección de Beneficiarios                 Proxy Means Test

SIISE    Sistema    Integrado    de    Indicadores
         Sociales del Ecuador                       Integrated System of Social Indicators in Ecuador

SSC      Seguro Social Campesino                    Subsidized Health Insurance for Rural Workers

STFS     Secretaría Técnica del Frente Social       Technical Secretariat of the Interministerial Social
                                                    Sectors Committee
SIGEF    Sistema de Gestión Financiera              Government financial management system

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                  Page No.
1. Program Data                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                     2
3. Program Description                                               2
4. Achievements of Objectives and Outputs                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                6
6. Bank and Borrower Performance                                     6
7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operations               7
Table 1: Summary of Program Objectives, Achievements of Phase 1,    10
and Triggers for Phase II
Annex A. Achievements and Outputs of Phase 1                        15

                First Programmatic Human Development Reform Operation
                        Simplified Implementation Completion Report


Operation ID: PO82395                                        Operation Name: First Programmatic
                                                             Human Development Reform Operation
Team Leader: Daniel Dulitzky                                 TL Unit: Human Development Department
                                                             Report Date: 05-10-2004

  1. Program Data

              Name: Programmatic Human Development Reform                  L/C Number:   71730-EC
                     Loan 1
Country/Department Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador, and Venezuela CMU                    Region:  LAC
                  :

   Sector/subsector: Human Development; Health, Education, Social Security
            Themes: Efficiency and Effectiveness of Basic Social Services, Transparency
                     and Accountability; and Protection of Priority Social Sector
                     Programs



KEY DATES
                                                                      Original          Revised/Actual
   PCD/PR:                                               Effective:   09/16/2003        09/16/2003
  Appraisal:   04/02/2003                                   MTR:                        na
  Approval:    05/27/2003                                 Closing:    12/31/2003        12/31/2003



  Borrower/Implementing Agency:    Government of Ecuador/Ministry Of Economy and Finance;
                  Other Partners:  Ministries of Health, Education, Social Welfare; assisted by the
                                   Technical Secretariat of the "Frente Sociale"



STAFF                     Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:           David de Ferranti                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Marcelo Giugale                             Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:           Evangeline Javier                           Evangeline Javier
Team Leader at ICR:       Daniel Dulitzky                             Daniel Dulitzky
ICR Primary Author:       Robert Crown




                                                  1

     2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)



                                          Outcome: S*
                                      Sustainability: L
                Institutional Development Impact: M
                               Bank Performance: S
                          Borrower Performance: S*

* The outcome of the entire reform program will be evaluated at the completion of the third and final phase of the
program, following guidelines for evaluating programmatic structural adjustment lending. As progress towards
reaching this ultimate outcome, the Borrower has met all conditions for the first loan satisfactorily. The evaluation
of the Borrower's preparation for the second phase is given in this report, accompanied by options for responding to
this evaluation.

                                                      QAG (if available)               ICR
                                 Quality at Entry: Na                                  S
                  Operation at Risk at Any Time: No                                    No


3. Program Description

3.1 Program Description

         Government of Ecuador's Human Development Reform Program (HDRP) was a
response to deteriorating condition of the population from the perspective of key social
indicators. In spite of having made significant investments in health, education and social
protection, including the provision of income support and fuel subsidies, by 2001, some
development indicators like infant mortality rates and access to basic health care services
compared unfavorably to those in other Latin American countries and to lower-middle income
countries in general. Although a major contributor to this deterioration was the severe economic
down turn of during 1998-2000, in which GDP dropped by between 5 and 13%, and the
incidence of poverty rose significantly, the worsening macroeconomic situation also highlighted
other structural problems that could no longer be compensated for through growth.

         In most cases, social programs were badly targeted, poorly coordinated, and suffered
from a general lack of transparency and objective accountability. As a result, significant
segments of the population were not receiving support; for example, about 32% of the population
lacked access to basic health care services; and more than 70% of the population was not covered
by long term income protection plans, especially the elderly. Programs also favored urban
populations.

         The Government that came to power in January 2003 set new goals for social sector
improvement that aimed, by 2007, to raise social sector and priority program spending as a
percentage of GDP, to increase years of schooling, and to expand access to basic health services;
while decreasing poverty and extreme poverty by, illiteracy, and infant mortality. Fully aware of
its precarious financial situation that would limit its capacity to make significant new
investments (financed through borrowing) in the short term, GOE proposed a Human


                                                            2

Development Reform Program (HRDP) that would rely heavily on reformulating strategy;
introducing regulatory reform; rationalizing the use of current treasury resources and social
institution's capacity; and focusing programs on the most vulnerable groups in society (the
extreme poor, mothers and children, the elderly, and culturally excluded).


3.2 Operational Design

Operationally, the HDRP would have three broad objectives and components:

        a. Protection of Public Spending in the Social Sectors and in Priority Programs: to be
           accomplished through assuring that the normal budget process produced growth in
           social sector ministry budgets in real terms, and in the budgets of a group of seven
           priority programs. Timely availability of resources would also be guaranteed through
           focused treasury cash management;

        b. Increase the Effectiveness and Efficiency in Basic Social Services and Programs: to be
           accomplished through

           (i) introducing a conditional cash transfer program for certifiably poor persons and re-
               qualifying beneficiaries of an existing unconditional cash transfer according to a
               means test; retargeting and removing overlap among similar social programs;

          (ii) re-targeting and rationalizing food and nutrition programs aimed at the poor;

          (iii)designing and implementing a reform of the technical and financial administration
               of the Ministry of Education and culture (MEC), including its personnel allocation
               and payments practices;

         (iv) harmonizing the services of key health service provider institutions including the
               Ministry of Health (MSP); adopting a common minimum package of services, and
               rationalizing and sharing resources so as to increase health care coverage; and

          (v) expanding effective income protection for the elderly.

       c. Raising Transparency and Accountability in the Social Sectors and Priority Programs:
           to be accomplished through improving the monitoring of social spending and
           information dissemination; conducting rigorous evaluations of social programs and
           application of results to program design; introducing processes for consultations with
           civil society and stakeholders in evaluation of social sector achievements and program
           development.

        The program would be implemented in three phases. The first would attempt to halt
further deterioration in the financing of social programs by protecting social sector spending in
the current budget cycle, initiate the evaluation and retargeting of key social programs, and
adopting regulatory and administrative measures that would set the framework for improved
efficacy and efficiency of social expenditures during the period of financial austerity. In the
second and third phases GOE and the institutions involved would begin to implement medium
term measures that would set the stage for longer term spending and investment in the social
sectors.

        GOE developed a set of benchmark activities that would allow it to monitor progress in
implementing these three phases (Policy Matrix ; Annex A).


                                                   3

        The World Bank agreed to support the HDRP through three loans that would mirror the
HDRP's phases. It agreed with GOE on a core set of benchmark indicators that would be
considered as "triggers" for appraising the second and third loans. These are shown in "bold
face" in the Policy Matrix, Annex A; Actions for May 2004 and May 2005.


4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

        The goals of the overall three-phase program, the achievements of the first phase, and the
triggers for the second phase are reviewed in summary in Table 1, and outlined in detail in
Annex A; Actions as of April 2004.

        GOE made significant achievements through the first phase of the reform. Of critical
importance has been agreement within the GOE on the concept of a "human development
agenda" that formalized the linkages that may have been implicitly drawn between various areas
of social concern, into a coherent program. The process of formulating this program was also of
significance in validating the role of the TSFS in consolidating actions to achieve human
development objectives. GOE met all of the prior actions for approval of the first loan
satisfactorily and in a timely manner.

        Considerable progress was also made following approval of the loan in implementing
what may be considered a "flagship" element of the Reform; the introduction of the conditional
cash transfer system, the BDH. It re-qualified about 75% of the pool of beneficiaries of ongoing
income transfer programs, and added new beneficiaries using a proxy means test (the SELBEN).
It also began making cash transfers to these beneficiaries. This process met with general
acceptance by the beneficiaries, as well as by those who previously received cash transfers
through the BS/BE but have been excluded. A full implementation of the transfer program was
not completed owing to budgetary constraints on program administration and high turnover in
the implementation team, but this delay should be absorbed during the current budget year.

        The second key element of the plan ­ the introduction of conditionality and co-
responsibility in continuing to receive benefits- requires additional experimentation and
beneficiary feedback to be fully introduced. This also should be accomplished in about one year.
A pilot test of the mechanism was successfully implemented and finished, and the only
remaining hurdle to scaling up the program consists of reaching an agreement on administrative
procedures and criteria with commercial banks which will be monitoring compliance with co-
responsibility obligations by beneficiaries at the time benefits are paid to families. GOE has also
made a significant, although not complete, improvement in the practice of openness and
transparency by major actors in the social sectors. The STFS has systematized the availability of
information and basic data on social sector performance. In addition, both the Ministries of
Education and of Health have both adopted or planned processes for managing the reform efforts
in their respective sectors that would be highly participatory and consultative with civil society
and major stakeholders. The administration of the LMG which is critical for maintaining
maternal and child health care in rural areas has also adopted practices that are more consultative
and sensitive to beneficiary needs.



                                                 4

        In contrast, since loan approval, GOE made less than satisfactory progress in other parts
of the reform. Firstly, GOE has only partially halted the deterioration in the financing of social
sectors and little progress has been made in actually raising budgetary resources in real terms.
MEF continued a historic practice of reducing initial budgets throughout the budget year to
respond to short term needs, and failed to actually commit large parts of this reduced budget. The
record for 2003 showed that MEF actually reduced its initial budget for the social sectors ­
health, education, and social welfare-- by more, and implemented less of this reduced budget,
than in the two previous years. In spite of the trend in global budgets, however, some priority
programs, like the LMG, PAI, and BDH, had a good level of execution and protected budget.
Progress in retargeting and rationalizing food and nutrition programs was negligible owing to
problems in gaining the cooperation of the management of current programs. With this
impediment, very little additional attention was been devoted to framing a food security and
nutrition policy. While the framework has been set to proceed with further reform of health
sector management, GOE made little progress in achieving immediate increases in health care
coverage through contracting for use of underutilized IESS/SSC infrastructure ( a short term
issue) and in defining and providing a system to offer a package of basic health services for the
poor. This resulted largely from GOE's inability to resolve inter-institutional conflicts in a timely
manner. Further, while a consultative group was formed and began deliberations on improving
some of the dimensions of income security, interest focused on the traditional contributory
insurance-based model, and these deliberations were limited to jurisdictional issues raised by
IESS. The income assurance needs of vulnerable groups under non-contributory systems, was
not taken up.

        From the perspective of preparing for a second and third phase of the program as
originally designed, progress in meeting specific benchmarks has been delayed. Efforts to
improve the transparency of IESS operations have not been fruitful owing to IESS's status as an
autonomous body, which operates beyond the purview of the Government. In addition the
process of critical and participatory evaluation of individual programs (particularly the BDH and
PAE) has not occurred. Additional studies and agreements have not been completed or reached
that would permit second phase activities to be pursued on the original schedule; including: (i)
the work of the SIAN in giving direction to basic nutrition and food security policy; (ii) actual
resolution of managerial and financial issues facing education (although a new framework for
addressing these issues ahs been proposed); (iii) delays in the specification and basic technical
design of the CPB and the management of the AUS as a critical input to future restructuring of
health care services delivery (although an effort to formulate broad regulations for the health
sector is being launched); and (iv) work of the CISS on an income protection strategy. On the
other hand, a number of studies have been completed: (i) a methodology to change resource
allocation in education has been proposed and implemented in some budget items; (ii) the firm in
charge of the design of the AUS has been contracted; (iii) resources have been secured to initiate
evaluation of social sector programs by civil society; and (iv) the resources to complete the
evaluation of BDH have become available.

        The final outcome of the HDRP will become apparent and should be evaluated when all
three phases are completed. The program itself was satisfactorily launched with completion of
the prior conditions to the first loan (to which the current assessment assigns a "Satisfactory"
rating). GOE has, however, had mixed success in maintaining the initial momentum of the



                                                 5

program and has not satisfactorily completed all of measures that were originally identified as
benchmarks and triggers for a second loan. Moreover, progress that has been made has taken
longer that originally planned. Therefore, at this moment, and without modifications, achieving
anticipated outcomes and institutional sustainability of the program could at best be "likely".


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

        Several factors have had a negative influence on the outcome of the program to date. The
HDRP was designed shortly after a new government took office in 2003, during a period of
economic and financial crisis. During the 12-18 months of first phase implementation, GOE had
not fully consolidated its structure or key appointments which led to changes in ministers, re-
assignments of authority for such issues as health restructuring, and changes in technical
personnel. GOE relied heavily on the STFS, which is a sub-ministerial agency, which performed
consistently well within its mandate, however, the program was slow to be embraced by most
agencies responsible for its implementation.

        At the same time, GOE has continued to experience low levels of treasury resources,
which it has had to manage tightly, with short term cash flow considerations being critical to
allocation decisions. As in most past years, the budget itself was continuously revised (and
reduced) to account for available funding, and the performance of key agencies. As a result,
agencies have been periodically under-resourced which has slowed implementation of some
operational work. Under-resourcing was also exacerbated by a cumbersome reporting system
mandated by MEF in order to transfer resources to the social programs, and by insufficient
prioritization within the social ministries themselves.

         GOE also deprived itself of available grant resources (a PHRD Grant) intended to
finance preparation activities for the second and third phases of the program, owing to internal
disputes between key implementation agencies over management and governance arrangements.
Several delays can be attributed to this factor. The PHRD grant has been recently signed, six
months after its approval.

        On the positive side, two principal ministries with mandates for human development,
education and health, have new leadership and have re-started processes of reform on a more
classical sectoral basis, using strong participatory and consensus-building techniques. While this
may be postponing solution of some of the specific issues that were identified as elements in the
HDRP, it also has the potential for finding longer term, sector-wide and sustainable solutions to
these problems while still achieving global program outcomes.


6. Bank and Borrower Performance

        The operation was identified, prepared and approved in a compressed time frame. Under
time pressure, Bank staff performed satisfactorily throughout the project cycle. Bank teams
included an adequate level of expertise and drew on extensive background analyses to identify
and frame issues, and to provide credible advice to the government. During implementation,
Bank staff interacted frequently with Ecuadorian counterparts and provided technical support.
The preparation process also appears to have met Bank standards for satisfactory "quality at


                                                  6

entry". However, in hindsight, staff may not have fully appreciated and accounted for the human
and institutional difficulties that have been subsequently encountered in the coordination and
harmonization of programs to increase efficiency. This can be corrected in the second and third
phases.

        Some agencies of government also performed satisfactorily, particularly the STFS which
was mandated to coordinate program implementation. This agency monitored and reported on
progress in a thorough and timely manner, and has also been pro-active in offering assistance and
technical support to others involved in the program. The Government's performance was also
satisfactory in general. It accomplished in time all the prior actions related to the first phase of
the program. In addition it has made significant progress in the implementation of reforms in the
social protection sector and some positive changes in education setting the stage for further
reforms. However there are areas where performance has to improve. Specifically, the GOE did
not succeed in giving sufficient weight to the resolution of issues of coordination of key
programs and to overcome parochial interests (nutrition, rural health), or on broadening the focus
of new initiatives (income security for the elderly) to include the majority of the needy
population. Most critically, the program depended heavily on the relationship between the
Government and the IESS and neither of these parties appeared able to manage this relationship
positively. Therefore, unless the GOE takes the necessary steps to solve these issues, there is a
risk that its performance will be ranked unsatisfactory in the future.


7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

7.1 Findings and Program Modifications

        The original goals of the reform continue to be valid and second and third phases of the
HDRP are clearly warranted to achieve them. Although it did not fully prepare the second phase
of the program as anticipated, the first phase provided valuable lessons and insights that should
be accounted for in the second and third phases.

        (a) Accounting for constitutional rights of IESS as an autonomous body and its clients:
             As originally designed, IESS was expected to be a major instrument in reaching
             program goals. It was directly involved in completing 6 monitorable actions,
             including two triggers for a second stage. However, it has not effectively participated
             in the program, citing its independence from GOE policy. Moreover, IESS currently
             serves only a minority part of the population and almost none of the population that is
             poor and extremely poor. The conditions under which IESS could (i) be convinced to
             be an instrument for achieving largely poverty alleviation objectives rather than
             strictly insurance-based goals (owing to its corporate structure), and (ii) affect a
             change in corporate culture and undertake the capacity building that might be
             required to do it, do not at present appear to be achievable. In contrast, with the
             growing interest in models of community-based basic health care, early success in
             implementing the BDH as an income program, coupled with a renewed effort to
             reformulate health care delivery overall through institutional strengthening of the
             LMG, reducing the reliance on IESS as a principal driver of the reform program
             should be reconsidered.




                                                  7

       (b) Recognizing budgetary and liquidity constraints as a longer term fact: Reforms are
            underway to restore economic and financial stability in Ecuador. In addition, GOE is
            attempting to address critical issues of budget management that would progressively
            extend to all ministries and agencies (the SIGEF). Meanwhile however, GOE's room
            for maneuver to meet budgetary commitments across sectors, including the social
            sectors, will be very limited and it will certainly be obliged to continue relying on
            short term budget re-allocation tools and special arrangements to manage its cash
            flow. Such manipulations distort the use of "budget implementation tracking" as a
            means of following GOE's basic priorities for social sector outcomes. The program
            should consider modifying the indicators used to track GOEs real intentions to
            include measures of sectoral outputs and outcomes, not solely sector budget inputs,
            as evidence of commitment. This modification would have the additional benefit in
            supporting the formalization of "results-based" sector budgeting into GOE's fiscal
            management.

       (c) Strengthening the capacity of STFS to support change: STFS has established a sound
            record in monitoring and motivating the program to date, and should continue this
            role in the future. Two modifications would improve its performance. First, as other
            organs of government intended to mobilize national dialogue have been eliminated,
            STFS should have its mandate and role in this strengthened through additional
            assistance on the professional aspects of communications; generating beneficiary
            feedback (beneficiary assessments; rapid rural assessments; "market research");
            preparing and targeting messages; and supporting consultative events to permit it to
            support other agencies and ministries who have direct contact with their publics.
            Second, while building ownership among first-in-line agencies and their
            constituencies is the preferred means if sustaining reforms in the quality and
            efficiency of social services delivery, STFS may require additional legal authority in
            the context of the HDRP to promote or direct changes and arbitrate differences and
            positions and report directly to the decision-making level of government to affect
            regulatory reforms governing the social sectors.

       (d) Defining a more concrete strategy in certain areas: With experience to date, it is clear
           that steps taken to coordinate existing agencies has not led to desired breadth of
           reform proposals needed to successfully address pension reforms and reform of
           nutritional and food security programs. GOE would need to propose a fresh strategy
           for addressing these two critical areas of the social safety net for the HDRP to be
           effective.


7.2 Options for Bank Management

       The Bank may wish to consider several options for responding to the current situation
with the HDRP, for advising GOE on alternative courses of action and for providing additional
financial support.

       (a) Maintain the original policy framework and triggers for lending: Under this option,
           GOE would require more time to meet initial expectations in terms of program



                                                 8

    actions and satisfaction of requirements for second and third loans. In fact, some
    triggers (budget performance, expansion of IESS services,) may not be met at all,
    leaving Ecuador without needed budgetary support. Moreover, as the situation is
    evolving in Ecuador, meeting some conditions may be redundant. This is not a
    preferred option.

(b) Maintain the original policy framework, waive problematic requirements, and reduce
    loan amounts: Waiving conditions may seriously affect the integrity of the overall
    program. At present there are 9 triggers for new lending, of which 4 refer to budget
    performance and 1 requires cooperation of IESS. Two of the remaining triggers relate
    to implementation of the conditional income support program, the BDH, and would
    provide a basis for new lending; the remaining triggers may become redundant
    considering dialogue that is ongoing. It is unlikely, however, that lending could be
    realistically lowered to levels supported by a reduced program. In addition, waiving
    agreements would not recognize promising new actions that are being planned and
    undertaken which may enrich the overall program. Therefore, while positive, this
    option may not add value to the reform effort.

(c) Modify the policy framework, and retain loan amounts: There is promising scope for
    modification in the details of the program, including identification of new triggers for
    lending that would maintain the integrity of the overall HDRP. New triggers could in
    full or in part, substitute for current actions and could include: (i) meeting
    expectations for dialogue in health and education sectors; (i) introducing results-based
    budgeting to complement (or substitute for) budget protection objectives; (iii)
    broadening the scope of policy development in income and pension protection and
    food and nutrition security; and (iv) expand coverage of basic health care through the
    LMG instead of IESS. Such new triggers would reflect the current state of
    development in Ecuador's social sectors and provide an adequate basis for
    maintaining planned lending levels. From the perspective of responding to an
    evolving situation in country, while maintaining focus on the longer term objectives
    of the reform, this would be a preferred option.




                                          9

                                                          TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS OF PHASE 1, AND TRIGGERS FOR PHASE 2.


                     PROGRAM OBJECTIVES                                                                     ACHIEVEMENTS OF PHASE 1
                                                                                                                                                                             TRIGGERS FOR SECOND PHASE LOAN APPRAISAL

I. PROTECTION OF PUBLIC SPENDING IN THE SOCIAL SECTORS AND PRIORITY PROGRAMS
Objective: to assure minimum levels of public spending in health, education, and social welfare and priority programs of special importance for vulnerable groups

Poverty reduction through increase funding on health and                      Budget provisions for the 3 major social sectors were set according to Loan            The 2004 budget for the priority social sector functions --
education basic services.                                                     conditions, however, following past practice, MEF reduced these levels                 Education, Health, and Social Welfare -- has been established
                                                                              during the year to account for changes in the availability of treasury                 at levels higher than or equal to the 2003 budget, as a
Adequate budget provisions have been made for priority social                 resources, and judgements concerning the absorptive capacity of social                 percentage of GDP
sectors and priority programs, consistent with stated social                  sector ministries. This produced a de facto budget that was about 16%
sector policy                                                                 below the initial budget and 76% of this reduced budget was actually
                                                                              provided. Comparable results for 2002 were: a 1.1% increase of final
                                                                              budget over initial budget, with 88% of the final budget implemented; for
                                                                              2001, an 8.4% increase of final budget over initial budget, with 93% of the
                                                                              final budget implemented.


                                                                              The 2004 social sector budget has been published that exceeds the 2003
                                                                              initial budget in nominal terms (by about 9%) but is for practical purposes,
                                                                              equivalent to the 2003 budget as a percentage of GDP.


                                                                              In 2004, the initial budget for health was established at about 1.3% of GDP,
                                                                              marginally lower than in 2003.


Expanded financing for priority poverty-related
programs achieved during economic transition

GOE has established the 2004 budgets for four of the seven                    The 2004 budget for each of the social programs is equal to or greater
priority social programs identified in the program below                      than their 2003 respective budget in real terms
2003 levels in real (2002) terms. Financing for these
programs has not been fully assured.


                                                                              GOE's performance in meeting goals for implementing the social sector                  (i) The 2003 budget for at least three priority social programs
                                                                              program budgets is ambiguous. It met targets for executing five of seven               has been executed at a level no less than 80 percent of the
                                                                              priority programs on the basis of budgets adjusted throughout the year, but            planed budget, and the global budget for all programs listed in
                                                                              only 2 compared to the initial budgets.                                                Annex 3.A of the Program Document at levels equal or greater
                                                                                                                                                                     than 80 percent of the planned budget, and
                                                                              In contrast, quarterly execution of the PAI and the LMG appear to have
                                                                              substantially met the agreed goals.                                                    (ii) In 2003 the quarterly execution level of the Ley de
                                                                                                                                                                     Maternidad Gratuita and the Programa Ampliado de
                                                                                                                                                                     Inmunizaciones was no less than 80 percent of quarterly
                                                                                                                                                                     agreed level.




                                                                                                                              10

II. INCREASE IN EFFECTIVENESS AND EFFICIENCY OF BASIC SOCIAL SERVICES AND PROGRAMS
Objective: To assure that basic social services and social protection programs reach intended beneficiaries within acceptable budget envelopes through (i) identifying intended beneficiaries with
administratively clear criteria ; (ii) improving targeting mechanisms for the delivery of basic services and raising consistency in their administration; and (iii) directing social assistance spending towards the
most demonstrably efficient programs

SOCIAL SAFETY NET


Safety net available to intended beneficiaries, concentrated    Progress in implementing the transition from the BS/BE to the BDH has             The transition process from the BS and BE to the BDH has
on poor districts and households in first and second quintile   been largely positive. The original timetable for completing the transition       progressed adequately according to the implementation
of income                                                       was been modified to account for a budget crisis and change in program            schedule agreed upon in May 2003
                                                                management in late 2003. About 65% of expected beneficiaries have been
                                                                enrolled in the new program and a similar number dropped from the former          The transition process from the BS and the BE to the BDH
                                                                programs. The second phase of means testing and enrolment in the BDH              has finished by May 2005
                                                                should be completed in the next 6 months, accompanied by complete
                                                                closure of enrolment in the BS.


                                                                Beneficiary families of the BDH are aware that they are to (i) assure that
                                                                infants receive well-baby care, and (ii) that primary school aged children
                                                                attend classes. At present however, compliance is not being monitored or
                                                                enforced, pending completion of pilot projects designed to find the most
                                                                acceptable means for doing so. It is likely, however that the rest of the
                                                                transition will be completed by 2005 as planned.


                                                                There has been little progress in retargeting the PAE. There is concern that      The poverty map has been adopted as the targeting
                                                                retargeting the program on a poverty map basis as planned may be less             instrument for the PAE and evidence has been presented that
                                                                effective than alternatives. In its place, STFS is developing alternative         at least 40 percent of the PAE benefits in 2003 was directed to
                                                                systems based on an assessment of the level of poverty in a school, rather        the parroquias of the first quintile, and at least 30 percent was
                                                                than a parish. However, PAE management is resisting any attempt to                directed to parroquias in the second quintile
                                                                retarget at this point.


                                                                STFS has made excellent progress in finalizing the application of the
                                                                SELBEN system, in spite of an interruption of resources in the latter quarter
                                                                of 2000. STFS has also made progress in assuring transparency and
                                                                mobilizing local support for the SELBEN process. To date all rural
                                                                jurisdictions (Juntas parroqiales) and about 205 of 218 urban jurisdictions
                                                                have formally joined the system. An evaluation of the efficiency and
                                                                efficacy of this system is planned.


                                                                GOE established the National Integrated Food and Nutrition System (SIAN)
                                                                to be supported by a funding mechanism (FNSIA) to raise nutritional levels
                                                                and food security for poor and vulnerable groups. Progress in establishing
                                                                this system has been minimal, however, largely owing to resistance from
                                                                PAE administrators. There are, on the other hand, promising initiatives that
                                                                illustrate that fully targeting nutrition and feed security on the poor can be
                                                                developed and managed with local participation and control (PRADEC)




                                                                                                          11

EDUCATION


The Ministry of Education is in the position to undertake an    MEC is taking a different approach to addressing issues in education than
enhanced program for educational coverage and improved          originally envisaged. MEC is organizing a consultative process to develop
quality                                                         these themes and to build consensus and ownership among key stakeholder
                                                                groups, to culminate in a "Third National Dialogue: Education in the 21st
More efficient and equitable allocation of financial resources  Century", planned for December 2004. This should provide a 10-year
that results in improvements in the provision of education      framework for strengthening education performance and results. Improving
                                                                rural education is to be a key focus in this regard.


Efficient and effective human resource management               MEC has made significant progress in identifying and terminating irregular
                                                                teacher appointments. So far, in 6 provinces, about 322 possible cases have
                                                                been uncovered. The process of leading to further should be finalized by end
                                                                2004.


                                                                Further elaboration of a human resources system would be a theme to be
                                                                developed as part of the National dialogue process.


Improvements in education coverage and quality in rural
areas


The Secretaria del Dialogo was disbanded and some of its
consultative functions were transferred to the Planning
Ministry. However, the MEC initiated is own consultative
process, that will lead to a Third National Dialogue: Education
in the 21st Century, by late 2004.


Teachers have an added incentive to remain in post and          Reducing delays in salary payments to teachers continues to be an
fulfill their obligations                                       intractable problem owing to the general lack of liquidity in the MEF



HEALTH

                                                                                                                                               (i) Relatives of affiliates to the IESS health services receive
The percentage of the population with no access to basic        Virtually no progress has been made in improving access to basic health        benefits according to the implementation schedule and the
health would be reduced to about 10 percent of the population   care by vulnerable populations through the strategy of negotiating resource    financing constraints determined by the actuarial studies. The
                                                                sharing between IESS and Ministry of Health, or in encouraging IESS to         minimum package being offered is the one defined by the
                                                                extend coverage to families of its affiliates. Internal administrative issues  LMG
                                                                confronting IESS and legal concerns about the provisions of the umbrella
                                                                Social Security Law have slowed IESS decisions. Further, negotiations          (ii) The number of first time prenatal consultations and
                                                                which have been pursued for several months on the cost and fee structure       consultations for children less than 6 years of age has
                                                                for a service package and mechanisms for payment for services are not          increased in 10 percent
                                                                progressing. In contrast, the Management of the LMG has made progress in
                                                                designing a system to overcome cultural barriers to increasing access to care  (iii) The monitoring system and the mechanism to overcome
                                                                by vulnerable groups.                                                          cultural barriers that prevent some groups of the population
                                                                                                                                               from accessing health services have been implemented




                                                                                                        12

                                                             Even though the MOH stated recently that an agreement between LMG and
                                                             SSC is imminent, under these circumstances, it is doubtful that the targets
                                                             for 2004 and 2005 will be met in a timely manner.


Poor and disadvantaged families would not forego receiving   The working group designated under the National Health Council
basic health care for financial reasons; Poor families have  (CONASA) has made a preliminary proposal covering the design of a self-
increased access to essential drugs                          targeted system for delivering a package of basic services (GPB) to the
                                                             poor. In parallel, under the responsibility of the Vice Presidency, consultants
                                                             (CARE and Johns Hopkins Medical Center) have been engaged to complete
                                                             work outlined in the Terms of Reference previously agreed, including inter
                                                             alia, definition and methods for administering a basic care package, and
                                                             improvement in essential drugs availability. Results are expected by the end
                                                             of 2004.


                                                             Pilot projects in 2 cantons ( one each in Quito and Guayaquil) are to be
                                                             launched as part of the overall consultancy contract, to examine the
                                                             effectiveness of AUS system alternatives. In addition, independent actions
                                                             have been launched in Guayaquil, Quito, Cuenca and Cotacachi by
                                                             municipal authorities to work with private insurance companies to provide
                                                             health insurance for poor residents.


                                                             A new Minister of Health has been given authority to pursue the
                                                             development of the CPB and an administrative system.


                                                             General agreements between MSP and IESS on rationalizing access to
                                                             services and fee and payment structures have not been negotiated.


                                                             IESS has completed work required to rationalize its internal organization,
                                                             and its accounting systems to provide a basis for separate management and
                                                             auditing of various accounts (pension, health insurance, workmen's
                                                             compensation, SSC...). IESS's status under the Ecuadorian constitution
                                                             gives it virtual autonomy of operations and the ability of GOE to oversee or
                                                             influence IESS's operations is extremely limited.


PENSIONS


Poor families have increased access to essential drugs       The Inter-institutional Commission on Social Security, (CISS), chaired by
                                                             the Superintendence for Banks and Insurance, began work in late 2003. It is
                                                             working mainly in the context of a reformed national Social Security Law
                                                             which continues to have elements whose constitutionality is being
                                                             challenged Thus, the CISS has been focused exclusively on improving the
                                                             performance of contributory pension and social security systems,
                                                             circumscribed by the Social Security Law. However, this law affects a small
                                                             minority of Ecuador's population (15%) which have a stake in contributory
                                                             pension plans. As a result, while important, the CISS work does not appear
                                                             to be consistent with the longer term goal of the Reform program.




                                                                                                     13

III. TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN SOCIAL SECTORS AND PRIORITY PROGRAMS
Objective: to improve access to social sector and program information and transparency in the administration of such resources by both public sector managers and planners and by user/beneficiaries

Regular accounting of social services spending would be         The STFS has developed a system for compiling and reporting on social
available to policy makers for the purpose of rationalizing     spending at a program level and at a sectoral level (SIAPS). It also provides
costs with program effectiveness                                quarterly commentary reports on achievements, with explanatory materials,
                                                                on all points covered by the reform program. This material is also web-
Improvements in health and education status related to social   based. In addition STFS has an active publications program.
assistance programs would be demonstrated


                                                                An evaluation of the process and results of the BDH has been delayed          The impact evaluation of the BDH is progressing adequately
                                                                owing to a general delay in establishing monitoring and enforcement           according to the implementation schedule agreed upon in May
                                                                mechanisms and lack of funding. Both issues are close to a favorable          2003
                                                                resolution.


                                                                Management of the PAE has not agreed to new targeting methods so that an
                                                                evaluation of the impact of the retargeting has not begun although STFS is
                                                                performing simulations of the possible impact of changes in targeting the
                                                                program as a basis for decision-making.


An improved regulatory framework would allow open access        Regulations governing the implementation of the new Health System Law,
to information and greater public accountability for social     passed in 2002, were published in January 2004. However, regulations were
sector costs and performance                                    issued without a consultative process. A new Minister of Health has
                                                                established a process for addressing this fault. Regulations will cover some
                                                                9 areas, Work lasting about one year, will overlap and be coordinated with
                                                                other issue areas such as design of the AUS and the formulation of a CPB.


Civil society and beneficiaries of social programs would be
empowered to define priorities and direct the provision of
services


Major efforts to promote a consultative process are being
made in health sector regulation; educational sector reform
(leading to a Third National Dialogue: Education for the
Twenty-First Century; and cultural sensitivity in the LMG.
STFS includes a social communications unit, recently re-
staffed, whose work program for 2004 includes building
awareness of the current situation with social service
delivery, beneficiaries and costs


IESS would be a more accountable and auditable institution


IESS has taken steps to separate accounts established for to
meet various objectives, and is following Ecuadorian law as it
concerns having these accounts audited. It does not distribute
or make public these audits however, owing to its character as
an autonomous institution.




                                                                                                        14

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ANNEX A
                                                                        ECUADOR: PROGRAMMATIC SOCIAL SECTOR LOAN
                                                                                                               POLICY MATRIX
                                                             ACTIONS AS OF WRITING OF ICR (APRIL 2004)
       ACTIONS MAY 2003                                                                                                                                           ACTIONS FOR MAY 2004 AND
                                                                                                                                                                     ACTIONS FOR MAY 2005                            PROGRAM RESULT

I. PROTECTION OF PUBLIC SPENDING IN THE SOCIAL SECTORS AND PRIORITY PROGRAMS
Objective: to assure minimum levels of public spending in health, education, and social welfare and priority programs of special importance for vulnerable groups

The 2003 budget for the                       Budget provisions for the 3 major social sectors were set according to Loan                        For May 2004: The 2004 budget for the priority social sector    Poverty reduction through
priority social sector functions             conditions, at about 4.8% of GDP. As traditionally occurs, MEF modified                             functions -- Education, Health, and Social Welfare -- has       increase funding on health
-- Education, Health, and                    these budgets during the fiscal year to account for changes in the                                  been established at levels higher than or equal to the 2003     and education basic
Social Welfare -- has been                   availability of treasury resources, and judgements made by MEF concerning                           budget, as a percentage of GDP                                  services.
established at levels higher                 the accountability and absorptive capacity of social sector ministries. This
than or equal to the 2002                    produced a de facto ex post budget (presupuesto codificado; pc) that was                            For May 2005: The 2005 budget for the priority social sector    Adequate budget
budget, as a percentage of GDP               about 16% below the initial budget (presupuesto initia; pil). GOE                                   functions -- Education and Social Welfare -- has been           provisions have been made
                                             ultimately implemented about 63% of the initial budget owing to                                     established at levels higher than or equal to the 2004 budget,  for priority social sectors
                                             chronically low levels of treasury resources. Moreover, GOE implemented                             as a percentage of GDP, and the 2005 budget for the priority    and priority programs,
                                             only 76% of the ex post de facto budget. This compared poorly to 2002                               social sector function of Health at levels higher than or equal consistent with stated
                                             when the pc was 3% above the pi and the pc was 88% implemented; and                                 to 2.3 percent of GDP                                           social sector policy
                                             2001 when the pc was 8.4% above the pi and the pc was 93% implemented.


                                             The 2004 social sector budget has been prepared and published. Overall it
                                             exceeds the 2003 initial budget in nominal terms (by about 9%) and is for
                                             practical purposes, equivalent to the 2003 budget as a percentage of GDP;
                                             that is 4.8%.


                                             In 2004, the initial budget for health was established at about 1.3% of GDP,
                                             marginally lower than in 2003. Moreover, GOE was able to implement only
                                             about 70% of the initial 2003 budget.


The 2003 budget for each of the              GOE has established the 2004 budgets for four of the priority social                                For May 2004: The 2004 budget for each of the social            Expanded financing for
social programs listed in Annex              programs identified Annex 3.A below 2003 levels in real (2002) terms, by                            programs listed in Annex 3.A is equal to or greater than        priority poverty-related
3.A is equal to or greater than              between 5-8%. In addition, the budget of PAE has been reduced by 13%,                               their 2003 respective budget in real terms                      programs achieved during
their 2002 respective budget in              and PANN 2000 has been virtually eliminated with a reduction in budget of                                                                                           economic transition
real terms                                   86%. Only the budget of PRADEC, a community based food security                                     For May 2005: The 2005 budget for each of the social
                                             program representing about 5% of the value of these priority programs, has                          programs listed in Annex 3.A is equal to or greater than their
                                             been maintained in real terms. At this moment moreover, financing for                               2004 respective budget in real terms
                                             these programs has not been fully assured as all programs except the Bono
                                             Desarrollo Humano and PRADEC rely on significant levels of contributions
                                             from non-treasury sources, which are less certain than treasury resources.




                                                                                                                              15

                                       GOE's performance in meeting goals for implementing the social sector            For May 2004:
                                       program budgets named in Annex 3.A of the Program Document is
                                       ambiguous.                                                                       (i) The 2003 budget for at least three of the social programs
                                                                                                                        listed in Annex 3.A of the Program Document has been
                                       GOE executed (using the concept of "presupuesto devengado" or                    executed at a level no less than 80 percent of the planed
                                       "committed budget") about 65% of the initially planned 2003 budget (in           budget, and the global budget for all programs listed in
                                       2002 real terms) for the 7 priority social programs. Individually, the results   Annex 3.A of the Program Document at levels equal or
                                       were: BDH, 84%; PAE, 45%; PRADEC, 56%; PANN2000, 61%; PAI,                       greater than 80 percent of the planned budget, and
                                       73%; LMG, 100%; and education investment, 38%. Under this
                                       methodology, the aggregate target was not met and only two programs              (ii) In 2003 the quarterly execution level of the Ley de
                                       realized the goal of executing at least 80% of their planned budgets.            Maternidad Gratuita and the Programa Ampliado de
                                                                                                                        Inmunizaciones was no less than 80 percent of quarterly
                                       However, taking the rolling updated budget (presupuesto codificado) as a         agreed level (Annex 3.B of the Program Document)
                                       base, GOE executed about 84% of this ex post budget for the 7 programs
                                       identified. Individually, the results were: BDH, 100%; PAE, 84%;                 For May 2005:
                                       PRADEC, 70%; PANN2000, 100%; PAI, 84%; LMG, 100%, and education
                                       investment, 42%. Using this method, the global target was realized and all
                                       but 2 programs realized 80% or more of their budgets.                            (i) The 2004 budget for at least three of the social programs
                                                                                                                        listed in Annex 3.A of the Program Document has been
                                                                                                                        executed at a level no less than 80 percent of the planned
                                       Quarterly execution of the PAI and the LMG appear to have substantially          budget, and the global budget for all the programs listed in
                                       met the agreed goals. Three of four quarterly commitments of the LMG             Annex 3.A of the Program Document at levels equal or
                                       substantially exceeded the 80% target, largely compensating for a                greater than 80 percent of the planned budget, and
                                       marginally lower level of execution (70% of target) in the quarter that was
                                       missed. Execution of the PAI substantially exceeded quarterly goals for
                                       execution in 2 quarters, marginally missed the goal in a third (75% of           (ii) In 2004 the quarterly execution level of the Ley de
                                       target) and missed its goal in a fourth quarter (55% of target).                 Maternidad Gratuita and the Programa Ampliado de
                                                                                                                        Inmunizaciones was no less than 80 percent of quarterly
                                                                                                                        agreed level (Annex 3.B of the Program Document).

II. INCREASE IN EFFECTIVENESS AND EFFICIENCY OF BASIC SOCIAL SERVICES AND PROGRAMS
Objective: To assure that basic social services and social protection programs reach intended beneficiaries within acceptable budget envelopes through (i) identifying intended beneficiaries with administratively
clear criteria ; (ii) improving targeting mechanisms for the delivery of basic services and raising consistency in their administration; and (iii) directing social assistance spending towards the most demonstrably
efficient programs

SOCIAL SAFETY NET




                                                                                                         16

A conditional cash transfer      Progress in implementing the transition from the BS/BE, that served about     The transition process from the BS and BE to the BDH has
program, the "Bono de            1.2 million persons in 2003, to the BDH (with an eventual enrolment of 1.2    progressed adequately according to the implementation
Desarrollo Humano (BDH)" has     million) has been positive. However, the original timetable for completing    schedule agreed upon in May 2003
been created. The program --     the transition was been modified to account for a budget crisis and change in
having the characteristics       program management in late 2003. A first phase of the transition that         The transition process from the BS and the BE to the BDH
described in Annex 4 of the      included inscription of persons with income levels in the poorest two         has finished by May 2005
Program Document-- has           quintiles (first and second quintiles according to the SELBEN) and the
started to progressively replace elimination of ineligible recipients of the BS/BDH has resulted in transfers
the Bono Solidario (BS) and the  into the BDH of about 793,000 persons, and the reduction of recipients of
Beca Escolar (BE)                the former Bono Solidario to about 240,000 (from 1,170,000 receiving the
                                 BS in March, 2003). Assuming adequate resources are available to support
                                 the administration of the transition process, plans call for completing the
                                 administration of the second phase of means testing and enrolment of
                                 beneficiaries in the BDH to a level of 1.2 million in the next 6 months,
                                 accompanied by complete closure of enrolment in the BS.


                                 The principle constraint on this process is the risk of inadequate operating
                                 budgets for the Social Protection Program (PPS) which is responsible for
                                 administering the program. GOE/MEF has made provisions for financing
                                 the PPS. Once enrolled however, beneficiaries have been receiving their
                                 payments as planned (see budget implementation figures, above).


                                 Social acceptance of the transition appears to have been positive, owing to a
                                 well-conceived communications campaign and a process of assuring
                                 transparency and open access to information collected through the SELBEN
                                 (see SELBEN, below), and the resultant establishment of eligibility for the
                                 BDH. Earlier fears of resistance to the transition, particularly among those
                                 having their benefits terminated, have not been realized.


                                 Beneficiary families of the BDH are aware that they are to (i) assure that
                                 infants receive well-baby care, and (ii) that primary school aged children
                                 attend classes. However, the extent to which recipients are respecting these
                                 conditions is not clear, owing to delays in establishing the monitoring and
                                 follow-up regime needed to control compliance. At present, therefore, any
                                 compliance with conditions is largely voluntary. However, beneficiaries
                                 may not be aware that they are not being monitored, although this will not
                                 last. As a result there is a risk that the basic improvement in the living
                                 conditions of the target population will be lost.


                                 The operational definitions and methodology for monitoring and controlling
                                 the conditions, and organizing the staffing and manuals to assure the
                                 operation is not complete. PPS has initiated a pilot project (in one parish;
                                 Pamampiro) to test systems for reinforcing the message that beneficiaries
                                 have educational and health responsibilities associated with the BDH,
                                 monitoring compliance with the conditions, and enforcing compliance
                                 through withholding payments when conditions are not met.




                                                                                                      17

In addition this pilot project is also refining details related to keeping
beneficiary lists current, and for individual and public access to lists to
provide additional transparency to the process. It is expected that this pilot
program will provide further guidance for refining the operations manual for
administering the BDH, monitoring co-responsibility of beneficiaries,
application of sanctions; needs for information and communications with
beneficiaries; and training needs for BDH operational staff (in PPS and
cooperating agencies such as local banks, schools, and clinics).


It is likely, therefore, that the rest of the transition will be completed by
2005 as planned.


Although there has been a recent agreement between the management of the        The poverty map has been adopted as the targeting
School Feeding Program (PAE) and STFS to cooperate on developing                instrument for the PAE and evidence has been presented that
operational criteria and a methodology for retargeting the PAE, there has       at least 40 percent of the PAE benefits in 2003 was directed
been little agreement on these criteria and methodology to date. As a result,   to the parroquias of the first quintile, and at least 30 percent
the PAE continues to provide funds for individual schools in "poor regions"     was directed to parroquias in the second quintile
whose communities ask for assistance, and agree to provide counterpart
goods and services. In addition, as resources for the PAE have diminished
in the past 2 years, PAE management has further rationed resources without
objective guidelines.


STFS has been developing simulations for retargeting the PAE, however as
a basis for providing objective and statistical basis for future retargeting.
Among these, one simulation appears to cast doubt that redirecting benefits
to assure universal coverage of children in poor parishes ("parroquias") as
proposed in the present Matrix (a policy based on poverty mapping) would
substantially redistribute benefits towards the children in poor families.
Rather, it could reduce the actual number of beneficiaries, and not improve
the distribution by quintile. In its place, STFS is developing alternative
systems based on an objective assessment of the level of poverty in a
school, rather than a parish as a basis for retargeting the program.




                                                                       18

The firms in charge of the       STFS has made excellent progress in finalizing the implementation of the            For May 2004: The process of expansion of the SELBEN , and a
expansion of the SELBEN have     SELBEN system, in spite of an interruption of resources in the latter quarter       technical evaluation have been completed
been hired and an implementation of 2003. At present approximately 1.8 million applications/surveys have
schedule for expansion has been  been completed from which individuals are classified by income quintile.            For May 2005: A financing plan and an implementation schedule
agreed upon                      The target is to complete the remaining 200,000 surveys by July 2004. A             for the revision and updating of the SELBEN have been drafted,
                                 survey covers 27 items related to income and assets that are aggregated into        and the methodology for the updating has incorporated all
                                 an index describing a level of wealth. Individuals are surveyed/evaluated           changes required according to the technical evaluation.
                                 voluntarily, and are generally aware that a SELBEN rating is required to
                                 qualify for the BDH. This raises the incentive to participate.


                                 STFS has also made progress in assuring transparency and mobilizing local
                                 support for the SELBEN process, as an instrument for managing the BDH.
                                 STFS' goal in conducting this "Open Window" (ventanilla abierta) program
                                 is to create a local process for communications, updating SELBEN ratings,
                                 and providing transparency and access to records by individuals that are
                                 rated. The program is designed to assure confidentiality of individual
                                 records, while allowing participating local jurisdictions access to
                                 information for program administration purposes (apart from BDH). To date
                                 all rural jurisdictions (Juntas parroquiales) and about 205 of 218 urban
                                 jurisdictions (municipios) have formally joined the system. An evaluation of
                                 the efficiency and efficacy of this system is planned from which
                                 recommendations for institutionalizing the administration and financing of
                                 SELBEN is expected.


The objectives and target        GOE established the concept of the National Integrated Food and Nutrition           For May 2004: The Fondo Nacional del Sistema Integrado de
population of the nutrition and  System (SIAN) to be supported by a funding mechanism (FNSIA) by                     Alimentación (FNSIA) has been created and is in operation
feeding programs have been       Executive Order, September 2003. A draft regulatory framework was also              within the PGE 2004 with the goal of rationalizing the operation
restated so that the current     produced. The objectives of the system were to raise nutritional levels and         of the various nutrition programs
overlapping has been eliminated  food security focusing on the needs of the poor and vulnerable segments of
                                 society. Regulations were to provide for targeting according to the                 For May 2005: The nutrition and feeding programs have been
                                 SELBEN, and harmonize the methods and targeting of the use if resources             consolidated and their budgets adjusted according to efficiency
                                 already available for food and nutrition programs in order to reach common          and impact criteria
                                 objectives. Finally, a funding system would be developed that would pool
                                 all or part of the resources currently being administered by the separate and
                                 "specific client-driven" programs that had evolved over the past several
                                 years, into a national nutrition budget and reapply these funds so that global
                                 nutritional goals were met.


                                 Progress in establishing this system has been minimal, largely owing to
                                 resistance from the PAE to the reformulation of its targeting criteria (see
                                 discussion of targeting PAE above). There are, on the other hand, promising
                                 initiatives that illustrate that fully targeting nutrition and feed security on the
                                 poor can be developed and managed with local participation and control (the
                                 Ecuadorian Food Program, PRADEC, in conjunction with the National
                                 Council of Parish Unions, CONAJUPARE). To assure progress, GOE
                                 would need to embrace a sector-wide view of the nutritional and food
                                 security and set policy goals at the macro level as a framework for
                                 component programs




                                                                                                        19

EDUCATION


A working group with               MEC is taking a different approach to addressing issues in education as        For May 2004: (i) A reorganization and institutional                The Ministry of Education
representatives of the Frente      originally envisaged in the Matrix. A new Minister of Education has formed     strengthening plan for the financial planning and administration    is in the position to
Social has been constituted to     a Technical Team (January, 2004) empowered to organize the process and         of the Ministry of Education has been completed, including the      undertake an enhanced
discuss proposals for reform to    arrive at a reformed financial planning, administration, and management        implementation of a new information system at the central level;    program for educational
the education system               information systems. This Team has also been charged to begin a reform of      (ii) Guidelines and a methodology for the allocation of financial   coverage and improved
                                   educational content as well. This is expected to be a broad-based effort, led  resources based on territorial, cultural, ethnic and gender equity  quality
                                   by an experienced technical educator. It consists of a director and 3          criteria have been agreed upon and published
                                   specialist experts, and is being supported by international donors.                                                                                More efficient and
                                                                                                                  For May 2005: (i) The restructuring and strengthening plan has      equitable allocation of
                                                                                                                  been completed, and the information system is working in the        financial resources that
                                                                                                                  totality of the country; (ii) As the restructuring of the MEC has   results in improvements in
                                                                                                                  been completed, the MEF has transferred to the MEC the              the provision of education
                                                                                                                  competence to manage and allocate the education budget, within
                                                                                                                  the scope of the laws of fiscal responsibility and the budget



                                   To frame the reform, MEC is organizing a consultative process to develop
                                   these themes and to build consensus and ownership among key stakeholder
                                   groups. Building on consultations at the cantonal and provincial levels, the
                                   process will culminate in a "Third National Dialogue: Education in the 21st
                                   Century", planned for December 2004 that should provide a 10-year
                                   framework for strengthening education performance and results. Improving
                                   rural education is to be a key focus in this regard. The Minister has
                                   exercised his right to convene a National Education Council, comprising
                                   representatives of major organized and institutional interests in education to
                                   guide this process.


                                   The MEC Technical Team anticipates that several important concepts will
                                   drive discussions, including: the decentralization of educational
                                   management to sub-national units; and financing education on the basis of
                                   demand for services rather than supply of educational inputs.


                                   MEC expects to have a resources allocation plan as part of its 2005 budget
                                   submission that accounts for various and differentiated regional, cultural,
                                   ethnic and gender demands. Technical assistance is being sought to
                                   complete this task.


With technical assistance from the MEC has made significant progress in identifying and terminating irregular     For May 2004: 60 percent of all irregular teacher certificates      Efficient and effective
Secretaria Tecnica del Frente      teacher appointments. In a first group of 6 provinces studied, about 322       (partidas) have been rationalized and a plan for the                human resource
Social, a preliminary diagnosis of possible cases have been uncovered. This is a much smaller number that had     implementation of a human resource monitoring and                   management
the current status of human        been anticipated, but if verified and acted upon, terminations would save      management system has been elaborated
resources has been prepared using  about US$1 million per year. The process of identification, validation of
the Teacher Census 2000-2001       irregularities, contact with teachers involved and termination should be       For May 2005: The human resource monitoring and management
                                   finalized by end 2004.                                                         system has been fully implemented and its financing is ensured




                                                                                                      20

                                   Further elaboration of a human resources system would be a theme to be
                                   developed as part of the National dialogue process. Enacting it would follow


                                   The Secretaria del Dialogo was disbanded and some of its consultative         For May 2004: Through a consultation process organized by the    Improvements in education
                                   functions were transferred to the Planning Ministry. These functions are of a Secretaria del Dialogo, policy recommendations have been made    coverage and quality in
                                   general planning nature and considered not fully relevant for sector          to improve education coverage and quality in rural areas         rural areas
                                   planning.
                                                                                                                 For May 2005: The implementation of the policy
                                   However, the MEC initiated is own consultative process, that will lead to a   recommendations put forward by the consultation group has
                                   Third National Dialogue: Education in the 21st Century, by late 2004.         started and its financing is ensured


Teachers have been paid their      Reducing delays in salary payments to teachers continues to be an             For May 2004: During the first quarter of 2004 the system that   Teachers have an added
March salary, and a system to      intractable problem owing to the general lack of liquidity in the MEF, in     measures delays in payment of teacher salaries has been used to  incentive to remain in post
measure delays in and increase     spite of intentions to improve the situation.                                 show that delays in payments have been reduced, giving priority  and fulfill their obligations
the transparency of teacher salary                                                                               to poor areas and provinces with lower performance in education
payments has been designed         A theme to be discussed during the Third National Dialogue will be
                                   alternative means of financing education, that may include alternative        For May 2005: During the last quarter of 2004 and first quarter
                                   methods for contracting teacher services so as to avoid full dependence on    of 2005 the system that measures delays in payment of teacher
                                   the national treasury to meet payrolls.                                       salaries has been used to show that delays in payments have been
                                                                                                                 reduced, giving priority to poor areas and provinces with lower
                                                                                                                 performance in education




HEALTH

                                                                                                                 For May 2004:
To begin to improve access and     Virtually no progress has been made in improving access to basic health       (i) Relatives of affiliates to the IESS health services receive  The percentage of the
coverage to basic health care      care by vulnerable populations through the strategy of negotiating resource   benefits according to the implementation schedule and the        population with no access
services for the most vulnerable   sharing between IESS and Ministry of Health, and in encouraging IESS to       financing constraints determined by the actuarial studies.       to basic health would be
groups in the population, the      extend coverage to families of its affiliates. Specifics are as follows:      The minimum package being offered is the one defined by          reduced to about 10 percent
following measures have been                                                                                     the LMG                                                          of the population
implemented:                       i) IESS has not acted on the results of the study evaluating the costs of
                                   extending coverage to spouses and children under 6 years of age of current    (ii) The number of first time prenatal consultations and
(i) The IESS has concluded a       beneficiaries, citing absence of regulations that would operationalize a      consultations for children less than 6 years of age has
study to evaluate the cost of      recently passed reformed Social Security Law (regulations being delayed       increased in 10 percent
covering the spouses and           owing to an issue of constitutionality of parts of the Law); and questions
children under 6 of current        regarding the work records and hence eligibility of several groups of current (iii) The monitoring system and the mechanism to overcome
beneficiaries                      subscribers to IESS insurance. While these are valid concerns, IESS itself    cultural barriers that prevent some groups of the population
                                   appears not to be proactive in addressing the issues.                         from accessing health services have been implemented
(ii) Agreements have been
signed to provide services                                                                                       For May 2005
included in the LMG in             ii) Negotiations between Health Ministry/ Implementation Unit for the LMG
                                                                                                                 (i) The necessary changes to the financing scheme and the
facilities that belong to the      and IESS/SSC to provide maternal and child health services to expanded
                                                                                                                 package of services have been made to guarantee an increase
Seguro Social Campesino (SSC),     coverage of rural persons not yet covered by the Maternal Health Care
                                                                                                                 in coverage of IESS to relatives of affiliates
for the population not covered     system have not been concluded. Negotiations have been pursued for

by this insurance scheme,          several months on the cost and fee structure for a service package, and
                                                                                                                 (ii) The number of first time prenatal consultations and
including a process to identify    mechanisms for payment by the MSP to SSC for services. Moreover, IESS
                                                                                                                 consultations for children less than 6 years of age has



                                                                                                        21

non-affiliated beneficiaries          has been attempting to condition its agreement with this arrangement on         increased in 20 percent, and at least 20 percent of such
                                      resolving an issue with MEF on obtaining additional international credits for   consultations benefited the population not affiliated to the
                                      strengthening SSC. Again, while valid concerns, IESS does not appear to be      SSC.
                                      active in seeking solutions.




                                                                                                                      iii) The monitoring system and the mechanism to overcome
(iii) The Executing Unit of the       iii) The Management of the LMG has made only modest progress in                 cultural barriers that prevent some groups of the population
LMG has started the process of        designing a system to overcome cultural barriers to increasing access to care   from accessing health services continue being used
designing a system of                 by selected vulnerable groups.
monitoring and control of
payments, and a process to            Under these circumstances, it is doubtful that the targets for 2004 and 2005
identify a set of instruments to      will be met in a timely manner.
be used to overcome cultural
barriers that prevent some
groups of the population from
accessing health care

                                      At present IESS provides health care services to about 18% of the
                                      population; MSP to about 31%; other agencies including the private sector
                                      (including NGOs) 20% , while 31% are structurally and financially without
                                      access to basic health services. Building on its present base, IESS would
                                      have to increase its operations, which are currently designed as contributory
                                      schemes, several-fold to reach a significant level of coverage among the
                                      currently underserved. Considering delays in implementing the current
                                      expansion, and the fact that most of the population currently without
                                      coverage is poor and could not contribute, the current strategy for expanding
                                      services through IESS may not be a timely or practical, and an alternative
                                      should be developed.


The Government has created a          The working group designated under the National Health Council                  For May 2004                                                       Poor and disadvantaged
working Group to oversee the          (CONASA) has made a preliminary proposal covering the design of a self-                                                                            families would not forego
design of a universal basic health    targeted system for delivering a package of basic services (GPB) to the         (i) The design of the AUS has been completed and the CGP has       receiving basic health care
insurance model (AUS), using the      poor. In parallel, under the responsibility of the Vice Presidency, consultants been discussed at a national level gathering                       for financial reasons
Ley de Maternidad Gratuita            (CARE and Johns Hopkins Medical Center) have been engaged under an
(LMG) and the Seguro Social           ongoing World Bank financed project (MODERSA) to complete work
Campesino (SSC) as stepping           outlined in the Terms of Reference previously agreed in the Program.            (ii) The group has presented the results of the studies committed
stones. The working group has         Contracts for this work have been signed, and results are expected by the       in 2003, an implementation plan, and TORs for a study on
produced TORs and/or studies to       end of 2004.                                                                    catastrophic insurance

analyze the following aspects of
the AUS: (i) definition of a set of   Along with specific studies, planning with the consultants is underway to       (iii) The MOH has initiated two pilots for the implementation of
guaranteed and self targeted basic    hold consultations in each of the 22 provinces, leading to national             the AUS. At least one of such pilots will be implemented in one
health services, the Conjunto         workshops for designing the content of the CPB and the administrative           or more districts of the first quintile according to the poverty
Garantizado de Prestaciones           features of a "Universal Health Assurance system (AUS).                         map
CGP; (ii) identification of
beneficiaries excluded from CGP;                                                                                      For May 2005
(iii) gradual integration of existing Pilot projects in 2 cantons ( one each in Quito and Guayaquil) are to be
systems in a single system to         launched as part of the overall consultancy contract, to examine the

provide the services guaranteed       effectiveness of AUS system alternatives. In addition, independent and          (i) The AUS has been implemented at the national level having
                                      apparently uncoordinated initiatives have been launched in Guayaquil,           incorporated the changes in design resulting from the evaluation



                                                                                                         22

by the CGP; (iv) the financial      Quito, Cuenca and Cotacachi by municipal authorities to work with private    of the pilots
implications of increasing          insurance companies to provide health insurance for poor residents. A
coverage of CGP; (v) establishing   common feature in all of these is the desire to capture funds from BDH       (ii) The pilots have been evaluated and evidence has been
an institutional and judicial       payments to cover all or part of the premiums.                               presented showing that the AUS has covered more than 60
framework, as well as the                                                                                        percent of the population in the first and second quintile as
regulatory scheme for the                                                                                        defined by SELBEN
functioning and quality of the
CGP; (vi) establishing a base line
for obstetric networks, and (vii) a At present the situation appears to be poorly coordinated and lacking        (iii) The PGE 2005 has incorporated funding for the AUS
study of legislation, registry, and leadership. A new Minister of Health has been given authority to pursue the
utilization of essential drugs      development of the CPB and an administrative system, however there does
                                    not appear to be vehicle for coordination. Moreover, significant policy and
                                    design issues remain to be resolved that may require a longer period of
                                    consultation and study that currently envisaged (one being the proposal to
                                    tie part of the conditional income subsidy for the poor, BDH, to an in-kind
                                    transfer, a health insurance premium).




                                    General agreements between MSP and IESS on rationalizing access to           An agreement between the MOH and the IESS to purchase
                                    services and fee and payment structures have not been negotiated or          health services has been signed, based on the studies about cross
                                    concluded.                                                                   subsidies in the health sector


                                                                                                                 The cross subsidies in the health sector have been completely
                                                                                                                 eliminated


                                    Research on this theme has not begun, but is included in the mandate of      A new legal framework regulating the purchase, distribution and   Poor families have
                                    consultants working on the AUS.                                              use of essential and generic drugs has been presented             increased access to
                                                                                                                                                                                   essential drugs
                                                                                                                 The legal framework for essential and generic drugs has been
                                                                                                                 approved


In order to implement the           IESS has completed work required to rationalize its internal organization,   The IESS has evaluated the management agreements and
separation of financing from        and its accounting systems to provide a basis for separate management and    effectively implemented the separation between financing and
provision in health care services   auditing of various accounts (pension, health insurance, workmans            provision in at least 20 pilot units
within the IESS, as expressed in    compensation, SSC...). IESS's status under the Ecuadorian constitution
the Social Security Law LSS, the    gives it virtual autonomy of operations which it guards jealously; and the   The experience of the 20 pilot units has been evaluated
IESS has signed management          ability of GOE to oversee or influence IESS's operations is extremely
agreements with 84                  limited.
implementation units




                                                                                                      23

Pensions


A working group responsible for    The Inter-institutional Commission on Social Security, (CISS), chaired by      The working group has prepared a strategy for fiscally            Poor families have
designing a strategy for economic  the Superintencia for Banks and Insurance, began work in late 2003. It is      sustainable coverage expansion in the long-run, incorporating the increased access to
protection of the elderly has been composed of 7 agencies with a direct interest in social security; including    agreements reached on the existing fiscal contingencies           essential drugs
created                            MEF, Ministry of Human and Social Development, Central Bank, IESS,
                                   Armed Forces Social Security Institute, National Police Social Security        The strategy has been implemented
                                   Institute and the Superintencia for Banks and Insurance. It is undertaking its
                                   deliberations against a background in which a national Social Security Law
                                   has been reformed following several years of intense discussion, and which
                                   continues to have elements whose constitutionality is being challenged
                                   (IESS has been applying some of the provisions of this law covering
                                   separation of funds with divers objectives into separate accounts; see
                                   above).


                                   CISS has received briefings by the World Bank on its own analysis of
                                   public pension systems in Ecuador, and support in seminars educating its
                                   members on international experience with pension systems and methods and
                                   tools for analyzing alternative pension proposals for coverage and
                                   sustainability. The Commission has outlined a terms of reference for
                                   consultants to assist them in addressing technical issues of a reformed social
                                   security regime but does not have resources to finance such a consultancy. It
                                   has also outlined a work program for about one year that would move the
                                   debate forward.


                                   Work has not advanced however. Principally, there is not full agreement on
                                   the part of IESS, which would be the major institution covered by the new
                                   Social Security Law, with several of the Law's principal provisions
                                   (establishing pension systems with mixed public-private management;
                                   tightened supervision of its activities by the Superintendencia of Banks and
                                   Insurance; assumption of new insurance functions for previously non-
                                   insured persons) which would alter the agency's institutional culture and
                                   independence. For these and other reasons related to interagency
                                   relationships, it has not participated voluntarily in the work of the CISS.
                                   This has frustrated the work of drafting regulations for applying the LSS.


                                   Further, the attention of the CISS has been directed towards exclusively
                                   towards the concept of contributory pension and social security systems,
                                   circumscribed by the Social Security Law. Its work strategy is to resolve
                                   these issues before moving to new areas that include alternatives that
                                   involve fully or partially non-contributory elements, even though a small
                                   minority of Ecuador's population (15%) have a stake in contributory
                                   pension plans ( a further 15% have some form of non-contributory income
                                   protection and the remainder have no recognizable income protection
                                   benefits). As a result, while important, the CISS work does not appear to
                                   be consistent with the longer term goal of the Reform program.




                                                                                                       24

III. TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN SOCIAL SECTORS AND PRIORITY PROGRAMS

Objective: to improve access to social sector and program information and transparency in the administration of such resources by both public sector managers and planners and by user/beneficiaries


                                    The STFS has developed a coherent and complete system for compiling and        For May 2004: Since June 2003 the government, through the
                                    reporting on social spending at a program level and at a sectoral level        MEF or the Frente Social has issued quarterly reports detailing
                                    (SIAPS). It has created a core team (2 professionals) that serves as the       the execution of social spending by program and source of
                                    center of a network of data collection, cross checking and compilation for     funding
                                    reporting purposes, that functions through direct contact with staff of social
                                    programs. Information is available on a STFS webpage.                          For May 2005: For 2004 the MEF has presented monthly reports
                                                                                                                   regarding the execution of social spending by program and
                                    STFS has also provided quarterly commentary reports giving updated             source of funding
                                    details of achievements, with explanatory materials, on all points covered by
                                    the reform program. It has also published hard copy bulletins on social
                                    protection spending, social budget execution and execution of priority social
                                    programs.


The firm in charge of the           Baseline data for the education and health sectors has been collected.         For May 2004: The impact evaluation of the BDH is
baseline survey for the BDH         However, no work has taken place to establish the "second" line data so that   progressing adequately according to the implementation
impact evaluation has been          an impact evaluation is not yet possible. Resources (which were anticipated    schedule agreed upon in May 2003
selected, and a methodology and     through the PHRD Grant) have not been made available for this task. This,
an implementation schedule for      combined with the lack of means and methodology to assure compliance,          For May 2005:Changes in the design, budget and
the evaluation have been            places further development of the cost, methodology and ultimate               implementation of the BDH have been made following the
presented                           effectiveness of the BDH at risk.                                              recommendations from the impact evaluation, and
                                                                                                                   improvements in schooling and health outcomes related to
                                                                                                                   the BDH have been shown


The government has produced a       No agreement has been reached on retargeting the PAE so that an evaluation     For May 2004: The impact evaluation of the PAE is progressing
methodology, and an                 of the impact of the retargeting has not begun, STFA has attempted to          adequately according to the implementation schedule agreed
implementation schedule for the     perform simulations of the possible impact of changes in targeting the         upon in May 2003
impact evaluation of the PAE        program, but the management of PAE have not taken decisions based on
                                    these simulations.                                                             For May 2005: Changes in the design, budget and
                                                                                                                   implementation of the PAE have been made following the
                                                                                                                   recommendations from the impact evaluation


A legal framework for the "Ley      Regulations governing the implementation of the new Health System Law,         The legal framework created in May 2003 is operational           An improved regulatory
Orgánica del Sistema Nacional de    passed in 2002, were published in January 2004. The work of developing                                                                          framework would allow
Salud" has been completed,          the new Law involved a wide ranging consultative process, and build a                                                                           open access to information
including at least the following:   consensus around the principles of decentralized operations of the health                                                                       and greater public
(i) Stewardship functions of the    system, with the role of the Ministry defined in terms of providing strategic                                                                   accountability for social
Ministry of Health as expressed in  guidance and policy, facilitating financing, exercising supervisory rights.                                                                     sector costs and
the National Constitution; and (ii) However, regulations were issued without a consultative process and there                                                                       performance
an organic structure necessary to   has been resistance and conflict among stakeholders concerning the content.
fulfill those functions
                                    A new minister of Health has established a process for redrafting the
                                    regulatory framework. He has convened the National Health Council
                                    (CONASA) and provided it with a staff to re-examine operational needs in 9
                                    areas covering all aspects of providing health services. A one-year work



                                                                                                       25

                                    program has been developed. Work will overlap and be coordinated with
                                    other issue areas such as design of the AUS and the formulation of a CPB.


Initial consultations with key      Major efforts to promote a consultative process are being made in:            For May 2004: (i) One key program in each of the social sectors    Civil society and
stakeholders covering program                                                                                     (education, health, and social assistance) has been evaluated by   beneficiaries of social
concept and first year steps has    Health: centered on the development of a regulatory framework within the      civil society groups using a consultative process (scorecards or   programs would be
been concluded and a roster of      Organic Health Law                                                            similar) and (ii) the results from the evaluation process have     empowered to define
interest groups has been                                                                                          been incorporated into the respective programs, and the second     priorities and direct the
established (determined as part of                                                                                phase of the evaluation is finalized.                              provision of services
consultations covering the CAS)     Education: focused on building a Third National Dialogue: Education for
                                    the 21st Century
                                                                                                                  For May 2005: Evaluation of first and second phase program
                                                                                                                  results and framework for third phase actions in each sector has
                                    Social Protection: assuring transparency and cultural sensitivity in the      been concluded with adequate stakeholder consultation and
                                    administration of the LMG.                                                    participation

                                    STFS includes a social communications unit, recently re-staffed, whose        A framework for continuing sector reform has been concluded
                                    work program for 2004 includes building awareness of the current situation    with adequate stakeholder consultation and participation, and the
                                    with social service delivery, beneficiaries and costs. STFS communications    results of the evaluation of one key program in each social sector
                                    strategy, under its new manager, is to facilitate and motivate information    have been incorporated into the design of such programs
                                    distribution and consultations with civil society by other agencies and
                                    ministries which are in direct contact with their respective constituencies.


The separation of funds has been    IESS has taken steps to separate accounts established for to meet various     For May 2004: Balances for 2003 have been audited and
completed and validated by the      objectives, and is following Ecuadorian law as it concerns having these       published and the rules and procedures used have been verified
Executive Committee of the IESS     accounts audited. It does not distribute or make public these audits          independently                                                      IESS would be a more
                                    however, owing to its character as an autonomous institution.                                                                                    accountable and auditable
                                                                                                                  For May 2005: Balances for 2004 have been audited and              institution
                                                                                                                  published and the rules and procedures used have been verified
                                                                                                                  independently

    Note: Conditions in bold represent Triggers




                                                                                                        26

