Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                 ECUADOR Programmaiuc Human Developmenit Reform Loan
Region                       Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                       Human Development
Project                      P082395                                            25773
Borrower(s)                  GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR
Implementing Agency(ies)     Nhnistry of Economv and Finance
Environment Category         C
Date PID Prepared            March 28, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date          March 27, 2003/April 14, 2003
Bank Approval Date           May 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Ecuador is recovering from the worst economic crisis in recent history. The economic crisis of the late
1990s was the worst in Ecuador's recent history, and resulted in an increase in poverty levels, higher ICVCls of
unemploymcnt and inflation, and a drop in GDP that has becn esumated at between 5 and 13 by different
sources Both unemploy7mcnt and inflation rates went up significantly during the crisis, and wvith it the number
of famlites requiring social assistance
Due in part to the crisis, social indicators in Ecuador still show an unequal performance across
regions and income groups.
Public spending in the social sectors has decreased sharply, especially in health and education. In
2001 spending in education was about 2 8 percent of GDP, vhille public spending m hcalth was below 2
percent These levels are not only low for internauonal standards -Bolivia for examplc, spent 3 6 percent of
GDP in health and 7 1 percent in education in 2001- but are below Ecuador's historical averages as well
Education expenditure has been conunuously dropping since the 1980s, when it stood at around 6 percent of
GDP.
Besides the low levels of public spending, the main problems affecting the social sectors have to do
with an inequitable distribution of resources, poor quality of basic services, and insufficient coverage:
a   Access to basic health care services is limited for a significant percentage of the population. Only
about 25 percent of the population is covered by some kind of public health insurancc, and about 30
percent has no access to basic health care services
b   Public spending in health is the second lowest in Latin America, after Haiti. The syster is Ilghlr
fragmcnted, wvith both the Ministry of H-Iealth and the Social Security Administration IESS administerintg
public health care provision in thelr own facilties, leading to incquities in treatment and care
c. Approximately 10.5 percent of the population aged 15 or older is illiterate. Even though primary
school cnrolmcnt is close to 90 percent, net enrolment rates for secondary school, at 51 percent, are too
lowv for Ecuador's development level.
d  There are severe inequities in education spending by income group This is mirrored in
discrepancies between rural and urban areas, as well as between indigenous and non mdlgcnous
populations
e   Governance problems in the educational system like the high turnover rates in authoriues, the hitglylv
centralized administration systems, and the lack of coordination among the different units wvithin the
Ministry all contribute to low levels of monitoring of activities and poor incentive schemes for teachers
f. The social assistance system suffers from high fragmentation. There are over 20 'priorlty programs'
in the svstem, and morc often than not their objectives and target populations are not well defined, so that



there is high potenual for duplication and overlap Moreover, different programs are administered by
separate units and even different Ministries inflating the share of the budget that goes to pay for
administrative costs
g   The Bono Solidario program -which concentrates more than half the total social assistance
budget- lacks clarity on its objective, on the way the benefit is determined, and on how the target
population is chosen. It has no mechanism to update the benefclary pool over tune and its impact has
never been satisfactorilv evaluated
h   Most social assistance programs are ineffective due to both their internal designs and the lack of
appropriate targeting instruments This in turn translates into poor coverage of those most m need,
and into important leakages of resources to groups wvith higher income.
l   The formal social security sector has very low effective coverage. With only 26 perccnt of the
Economic Active Population covered by formal social security, and \vith extremely low pensions paid to
retirees, the effective coverage is among the lowest in Latin r\merica.
There is no coordination among the income protection schemes for the elderly. This applies to the
formal social security system, the social assistance provided through the Bono Solidario, and the non-
contributory insurance scheme for independenit rural workers, called Seguro Social Campesino
The main challenge in the short term for Ecuador is to implement a fiscal adjustment to generate
sizable fiscal surpluses and a sustainable external debt level, Nvithout neglecting the social sectors. At
present the fiscal posiuon in Ecuador is frail, as the prunary surplus has been decreasing since the year 2000,
the public external debt is the second highest in Latin America -about 60 percent of GDP, and expendctures
are extremely rigid Much of Ecuador's revcnue is tied to the international price of oil and vhlile this has risen
dramatically, it has not produced sufficient revenue to cover domestic and international obligations, leaving
relatively few resources for social programs needed to provide services to a growing number of the poor The
country faces a financing gap of approximately $871 million this year and $450 million in 2004 At the same
tine the social sectors need to be prioritized, as public spending is still below Ecuador's historical levels-
particularly m education and health
The new government has an ambitious reform agenda that extends beyond short term measures. The
government of President Guti6rrez wvhich took office in January 15th announced, after only three days, a plan
of "Economic Ordering and Human Development" The goal of the program is to reduce poverty, increase
fiscal revenues, achieve a sustainable debt management system, and implement a number of reforms in the
social sectors as well as the tax and social security systems
The Government has also signed a Letter of Intent with the IMF. In it, the governmcnt agreed to adopt
measures aimed at (i) resolving immcdiate liquidity pressures and regularizing arrears left by the previous
administration; (u) tightening the fiscal stance to recover from the slippages of 2001 and 2002, (in) protecting
the poor by stabilizing their income levels and strengtlhcnttlg social programs, and (iv) improving the flexibtlity
of fiscal policy and prioritizing expendlrtires Some of the measures contained in the LOI have already been
implemented througlh the austerity decree described above Other measures include an increase in spending
on social assistance, efforts to strengthen the social security system (actuarial studies), and improving the
targeting of the gas subsidy
These and other measures announced by the new government will most likely have a negative impact
on the most vulnerable groups in the population in the short term. The government also announced an
increase in the price of gasoline of between 3 percent and 24 percent, which resulted in a higher inflation rate
and reduced the purchasing power of the population, particularly the poor In the Letter of Intent signed with
the IMF the government also commits to reduce the level and tighten eliglbility of the gas subsidy, some of
vhiclh is now targeted to the poor -in a very tmperfect way



2. Objectives
The program is intended to protect the most vulnerable groups in the country as the economy
engages in an austerity plan to restore its fiscal balance, and will be complemented with another
programmatic operation to address fiscal and structural issues in the economy. This phase of the
program would be the basis of a First loan of US$50 MItIllon, and is part of a comprehensive program that vill
involve two other programmatic loans of $50 0 vILlion each, that will set the stage for structural reforms in
health, education, and social assistance A companion loan of $50 0 tillion xvill be focused on fiscal reforms
and polices to foster growth
The Program has three mami objectives (i) To protect public spendcng in the social sectors in general and in
specific priority social programs; (u) To improve the efficiency and efficacy of basic social services, irrproving
access and coverage and achieving a better targeting towards the poor, and (m) To increase transparency,
improve governance, and accountability in the social sectors
The first phase of the program will be built around the protecuon of key soctal expenditures and the
implementation of immediate changes in the administration of Ecuador's social safety net to increase the level
of protection of vulnerable groups, as well as the design of structural reforms in selected programs in the social
sectors The second and thlird phases have a medium tern horizoni, and wl prepare the ground for the
implementaton of further structural reforms that xvill result in more efficient and equitable provision of basic
social sernices
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
A number of recent econormic and fiscal policies implemented by the new government xvli require assistance to
provide a cushlion for the most vulnerable during this period of adjustment The Government has requested
assistance from the World Bank to
a Help mitigate the adverse shock of soIIIe austerity measures recently announced by the government, and
b   Help in the design and implemiientation of a number of structural reforms in the social sectors that will
occur concomitantly wvith structural changes in other areas, like tax reform, custom reform, and civil
service reform
4. Description
The Bank's support would have three phases, each supported by a programmatic loan of US$50.0
Million, with its own terms and conditionalities appraised and negotiated separately. The operations
wvould be built around three main goals, emphasized differently by operation and by sector
a   Protccting the most vulnerable groups in tde population by protecting public spending on the social
sectors in general and priority social programs in particular;
b   Increasting the efficiency and coverage of basic social services through (i) improving targeting tools for
social assistance programs, (ni) using those instruments in a consistent way to determine xvho benefits from
the program, (Xi) prioritizing social assistance spending toxvards the most efficlent programs, (IV) improving
a number of basic social services, and (V) elirminating some administrative barriers that prevent some social
services from reachling the poor, and
c. Improving access and generation of information and to promote transparency in the procurement and
administration of resources
The first phase would assist the government in the protection of key social expenditures and in
redirecting expenses towards the most vulnerable groups in the population. This operatiotn -would help
to mnimize the negative effect that the fiscal adjustment plan in place will have on the poor The first



operation will also provide assistance in the design of programs and the adoption of administrative and
regulatory measures that xvill improve the poverty targeting and focus of basic social services
The second and third phases would begin to implement medium term actions that set the stage for
long term structural reforms in the social sectors. As the first phase protects social spending, begins the
implementation of structural changes in the social safety net, and assists in the design of reforIns in health and
education, the second and thlird operations will also focus on guaranteeing that basic social spencdng is
protected and increases as fiscal pressures ease, and on preparing the ground for implementation of long term
structural reforms. This wvil be done through the execuuon of pilot experiences, leading a national dialogue on
the direction of the social agenda, negotiaung changes in regulatory framexvorks, signing of agreements among
different actors in thc social sector that are at the moment acting individually, and lfting a number of
constraints that prevent social programs ftom working efficiently
The first phase would emphasize the first two objectives as they are most urgent. It defines an adequate
level of public spending on the social sectors to be maintained, and a number of programs wvhose budget has to
be protected. It also seeks to implement structural changes to the main social assistance program, in order to
improve imedilately the level and type of assistance to the poor, for example by changing the way it is targeted
and benefits determined Finally, it supports the design of structural reforms in health and the development of
strategies in education and pensions to improve efficiency and coverage T he phasing in the program
recognizes that structLral changes in social assistance can provide immediate protection and relatively quick
results, whlile changes in education requLre a long term to be effective For that reason the reforms in education
are more slowly paced than the ones in social assistance Reforms in the health sector can have immediate
effects on the poor but full implementaton of structural changes takes more time than the implementation of
social assistance reforms
The second phase wvould consolidate the first phase results by maintaining the level of protection in
social spending and guaranteeing its execution, emphasizing efficiency gains and the accountability
goal. This phase calls for maintaining the level of social spending in real terms and for showing that the
execution of some priority programs is on target, as delays in execution may be damaging for the ob)ectives of
those programs. During this phase the structural reform to the Bono Sohdario wvtll be finalized and additional
reforms to the social safety net will be implemented, like the adoption of the poverty map as a geographic
targeting tool This operation will set the stage for longer term structural reforms in health and education,
including changes in exisung structures and the administration of health care services to alloxv for conversion
and initiation of structural reforms, and pilot experiences in educauon to modify resource allocation systems
and improve mcenuve schemes for teachers in rural areas.
The third phase would take the first steps in implementing changes that will have a long term impact
in social sectors. V/Whitle the level of protection to social spending is maintained and even increased,
parucularly in health, this operation concentrates on deepening the changes that started in the prevlous
operations, and on achieving and measuring some results from the reforms implemented then Under the thlird
phase other programs ui the social safety net besides the Bono Sohdario wvill be reformed, and the long term
structural changes in health wtll commence Some of the reforms in educauon xvill be mainstreamed, and the
pension strategy wvill begin to be implemented
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
IBRD ($50 00)
Total Project Cost $50 00
6   Environmental Aspects
Since thlis is an adjustmienit loan an environmental assessment and resettlement action plan are not
applicable EHloxvevcr, the proposed pro)ect gives special consideraton to indigenous issues wvithit the



education sector. Therefore, the project team is compiling all the project issues and activities pertaining to
indigenous peoples and carrying out consultations with indigenous peoples to agree on said activities.
7. Project Risks
Political: Key stakeholder groups have already shown their ability to influence the possible course of dialogue
on reform in the social sectors. The teachers' union, as an example, has demonstrated publicly, which has
created the need for confidence-building measures under the program as a step prior to even establishing an
agenda for dialogue covering reform measures. Throughout, groups will hold positions, reflecting agenda's
that are not central to the protecton of vulnerable groups and social sector reform. WNJhile difficult to mitigate,
the government would engage each in transparent and open two-way communications, and in information-
based processes of negotiations of interests. It would also maintain an open information policy for the general
public so as to isolate this source of risk to the overall program.
Macro-Economic: Ecuador is currently facing a period of uncertain economic growth (with a positive outlook)
that coincides with the fiscal problems facing the government. Both the level of fiscal revenues and to a
considerable extent, general per capita incomes and employment levels are dependent on an uncertain
international oil market. The budget and revenue projections underlying the present program (as well as the
fiscal program supported in a companion operation) have been made on the basis of low international oil
prices (about 50% of the current spot market price per barrel) so that the fiscal risk of the program should be
manageable. However, fluctuations in incomes and employment will affect the climate in which the reform
process is to take place and change the perception of interests and the actual demands for social sector services
that could negatively affect the program's timing and content. Mitigation of this risk beyond incorporating
some flexibility in the planned timing of phases 2 and 3 may be difficult.
Implementation: The program involves the efforts of three key ministries and a number of autonomous
agencies, in areas that are technically (as well as politically) demanding. There is, therefore, a serious risk to the
feasibility of implementing the program owing to its scope and depth. The program appears to have an
adequate management structure, but several of the reforms still require adequate technical preparation to be
sound. Apart from assistance that mav be available through ongoing projects and from other agencies,
Government would seek additional financing to allow it to conduct the necessary research and studies to
reduce these difficulties. The Bank may consider offering a PPF, or to assist GOE to seek PHRD grants for
this purpose. In addition, the program has selected a limited number of "triggers" for lending purposes from
among a more complete plan of action (see Annex 2) so as to be able to recognize "substantial progress" that
may be made in affecting reforms, rather than monitoring only the completed processes. Specifically, the
triggers for the first loan would be actions that the government has already taken' to establish the direction and
scope of the reform process.
Also, the technical capabilities differ significantly by sector. It is expected that significant assistance and close
supervision xvil be necessary mostly in the education sector.
Prior to Board approval.



Commitment and ownership: Reforms will involve losses and adjustments for some stakeholders, while
providing gains for others. This may erode the commitment to the overall reform. GOE would adopt an open
and consultative process, based on information sharing and negotiations among stakeholders to find mutually
supporting interests.
8. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Daniel Dulitzky
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2528
Fax: (202) 614-0930
9. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Cleared by: Daniel Cotlear, Sector Leader, LCC6C



