Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated. 03/28/03
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
COUNTRY.      ECUADOR                         PROJECT ID   P082395
PROJECT:      Programmatic Human              TTL          Danrel Dulitzky
Development Reform Loan
APPRAISAL, DATE: 04/07/03 (estimate)          IBRD AMOUNT ($m): 50 0
BOARD DATE 05/27/03                           IDA AMOUNT ($m):     0.00
MANAGING UNIT. LCSHD                          SECTOR Human Development
LENDING ]N5TRUNLtENTS: Programmatic Sector    STATUS:
Reform Loan                                                                               l
Project Objeci ie.
The program is intended to protect the most vulnerable groups in the country as the economy
eLigages in aii austerity plan to restore its fiscal balance, and will be complemented with another
progranmmalic operation to address fiscal and structural issues in the economy. This phase of the
pr% 1 i in ai M k .ld be the basis of a first loan of US$50 Million, and is part of a comprehensive program that
will involve two other programmatic loans of $50 0 Mllion each, that will set the stage for structural
reforms mt hejhllh. education, and social assistance. A companion loan of $50.0 Million will be focused on
Il;cal ret.- inis and policLes to foster growth.
ThePioeiiiiii has three main objectives (1) To protect public spending m the social sectors in general and in
specific priority social programs, (ii) To improve the efficiency and efficacy of basic social services,
unpro%\ iu," access and coverage and achicving a better targeting towards the poor, and (iii) To increase
trans,paincn\, improve governance, and accountability in the social sectors
The fu '. phase of the program will be built around the protection of key social expenditures and the
implementation of immediate changes m the adrmnistration of Ecuador's social safety net to ;ncrease the
level of protection of vulnerable groups, as well as the design of structural reforms in selected programs in
the 'kcLil *ectors The second and third phases have a medium term horizon, and will prepare the ground
for the implementation of further structural reforms that will result in more efficient and equitable provision
of basic social services.
Project Description
The Bank's support would have three phases, each supported by a programmatic loan of US$50.0
Milion, with its own ternms and conditionalities appraised and negotiated separately. The operations
would be built around three main goals, emphasized differently by operation and by sector:
a. Protecting the most vulnerable groups in the population by protecting public spending on the social
sectors in general and priority social programs in particular,
b   Increasing the efficiency and coverage of basic social services through- (i) improving targeting tools
for social assistance prograrns; (ii) using those instruments in a consistent way to determine who
benefits from the program, (iu) priontizing social assistance spending towards the most efficient
programs, (iv) improving a number of basic social services; and (v) eliminating some administrative
barners that prevent sorne social services from reachng the poor; and
Improving access and generation of information and to promote transparency in the procurement and
administration of resources
'c eressron No P-%eb -003    Box No ' )
Q N      Date lOl-03         ILogNo
L--tton          cc
Drawer        1 country Into. LGeneral Donor-Aid Coord / Intemal
nn-, Lindi_g/ToplcadIAdmn  f-' O  0 6
|Folder/ Ibif otd : &yLC&          ;L



The first phase would assist the government in the protection of key social expenditures and in
redirecting expenses towards the most vulnerable groups in the population. This operation would help
to mnimimze the negative effect that the fiscal adjustment plan in place xvill have on the poor The first
operation will also provide assistance in the design of programs and the adoption of admstrative and
regulatory measures that will improve the poverty targeting and focus of basic social services.
The second and lhird phases would begin to implement medium term actions thai sei the stage for
long terni struclural reforms in the social sectors. As the first phase protects social lpeiiJitii. begins the
iinplemenm.i.in of n u, liil . clhanc in the social safety ncti. nd .sil in the design of reforms in health
and education, the second and thtrd operations will also focus on gtiar`aiiecint that basic social spending is
protected and increases as Ii) 1.l pI)Csi C- ease, and on preparing the ground for implementation of long
tki m  itructuial reloi imi   Tliin 1' ill be done thr.ou zh the execution of pilot experiences, leading a national
dialui'uue on ihe dietcion ot. tIe  cuiil -i iendn. .ne2 liaiinc changes in eoiil.Lli n i fi.)ine" i k;. signing of
a-icienaie .aimonc ditteienr actois In ilic o,i. I eljectr i I a ire at the moment acting individually, and lifting
a iiLinibci o1. con.ir.aini. itiai preeni oci.td proctiams -tioiU \ .ikin2 efficienil.
Tbe lirsl phase ii ould eupliasize ike rirsi t ,I) objccii es as they are most urgent. It defines an
adeu.ie tle,-elt.it public ;peridnn on the s.i.il   o   be ruilntnmed, and a numberofprograms whose
budJiei ha, io be proiecied  It at- ,eeks u. iLmpleinciii >ii uucur.il ch.ni e - t. ilie main social assistance
pr,1u.in1,. in .rdei io umpno%e inined.relt, ihe leiel .nid P're it :4 i>l.iLe to thepoor, for exampleby
chLiEnln Lthe ,- It. ii iiu2etere ind .heiletit- ddetlminled  ,it .i pnile design ofstructtiralreforms
in health and itie de\clipnienl t1 oii.te  Ie I Iu educ.aun and pension, In tnipto\e efficiency and coverage
The pl..sinc in ulhe pu.'orams eco-nizeth.iti iuciur.il Lh.anie- in social js-,is.i.Iiecanprovide immediate
proeinon and relaiiket\ quick reilsl,. i lute h.i 2ew in edui.iuic'n reLluiIe .1 ln teiiin t,. beeffective For
that re.-on uhe re Il inl CdLicarlOn aie nmre 1o\\x 1\ p.iccd ihan the ones in *,cial assistance. Reforms in
ihe Ilealili .ecinr can ba\e ininedaicu etlecti cii the poor btir lull iinplemenuian ofstructural changes takes
n,wie ttine uI.n misc inplemseni.iitn cit -..'  l .asi-.itaiCe rel.oriun
The second phase iuotild consolidaie thlc r,-si phase results hi maintaining the level of protection in
social spending and guaranieiiag ils e\ecution. eniphasizinig efriciency gains and the accountability
goal. Th.,; phlsae . ,ls lor minaninnine2 the eel . t - .1 i spendine in real terms and for showing that the
e\ecuiion .I !oniie pimi in pr.opann  ..n m.rcei. a dela > in e',ecution may be damaging for the objectives
of iho-e piojpans. Dturin- ihit, pth.-e ihe siruciuial ret.'iu i.o lie Bono Solidaro will be finalized and
adduional retoi ins io the sociil jter'. iiei % ill he nipleineised. like the adopton of the poverty map as a
geo.ipl.,i i:u, lenni ut'ol Tils opei.uion \a ill -et [hle -i.i:e tl longer term structural reforms in health and
educaruon. ncdudin2 clhanye in exc\itin%- iuuk iuer, and ti adnministraton ofhealhh are services to allow
for c.'n'ersion niid nmrallin f .n ue Lciuiil ret.'i nii. .ind rilot. \ e\enences in education to modify resource
all'cun si.ierns aind inpio\ ci inceni e chene.b li ie.ichei * in rural areas.
T:he liiird phase %ould take ihe first steps it inipleiiienring changes that will have a long term impact
in social seclors. \V lile the leel, 't priectli>[ to -ci,lal ipending is maintained and even increased,
p.nicularlk in health ihi. oFper.aionl evlcoeniijes on deepenint the changes that started in the previous
oCeratins, and i,i a. hiei m- and mea-,urinc -o,iC rcr.nti titnit ihe reforms implemented then. Under the
third phase oiher pi,oialin in tlie soci.ii -.aieuN ne he ide itie Bono Solidario will be reformed, and the
long term strucnui.l chian e.s ti healih 'a Ill uoinnence S.iie of the reforms in education will be
mainstreamed, and the pension sirateq % will begin to be implemented.
Project Location: (Gcographic location, information about the key environmenital and social charactensucs of the
arca and populatton likely to be affected, and proxlrmty to any protected areas, or sites or critical natural habitats, or
any other culturally or socially sensitive areas)
Ecuador
B. Check Environmental Classification A [ ], B [ } C LX], FI [ ], TBD []
Conmments
C. Applicability of Safeguard Policies (from PDS)
Click on Policy name for brief summary of objectives, triggers and requirements
Click on Policy reference number for full policy



Yes     No     TBD
Environmental Assessment (OPJBP/GP 4 01)                   1]      [X     I 1
Forestry (OPGP 4,36)                                       [I       [X] [I   I
Natural Habitats (OPIBP 4.04)                               [1     [X ]        [I_
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 1]     [X Xi]      I]
Pest Management (OP 4 09)                                   [ ]     [ X]   I I
In% olurtim.  Re~elledernii i OD J 30                       r I     r 1X1 -I II
Inditenoti. Peoples tCD 4.2i)i                               x      IX  I  II
Ctilltral Pfc'pein i OPN II LOS'                           1     l        I I
Pr.i eck in Dilpuled  1e.1; ICOP!BP'GP -l                    I .. .   1............... __1 
Pioieti, on 1nicrnajo,njl ".utet%aN , iOP,BP.{jP  5jI       I       i f1 I I
Section lI - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues Please fill in all relevant questions Tf information is noL available, describe
steps to be taken to obtain necessary data
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
This project gives special consideration to indigenous issues within the education sector Previous sector
work has iJeniitficd IndilenLh population as particularly vulnerable to the problems of the Ecuadorian
education sector The decrease m public spending in education has affected all groups in the population
(except the relatively well off). However, indigenous people over 24 years of age living in rural areas have
on average of 2 4 years of schooling, compared with 5 for non indigenous rural populations, and 7.6 at the
national level. OChei mcquituies in terms of enrolment and access are also present and describe in the
Indigenous People Strategy.
2. Identify and dc.., ribe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts Describe
any potential cumulauve or long term impacts.
N.A.
3. In light of I and 2, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if requLred)
Ecuador has made significant progress over time towards increasing literacy and enrollment rates
However, given the inequities across income groups, and the poor outcomes for indigenous populations, it
is necessary to address thls issue explicitly Any attempts to increase coverage has to focus on groups
living predominantly in rural areas and experiencing low income levels, m particular indigenous groups.
4 Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Imhial consultations during the preparation of the CAS, and subsequent follow up for this operation, have
included representatives of indigenous commumties Based on the previous analysis and on the
consultations, the issue of bilingual education was identified as a priority For this reason, and taking into
consideration the specifics of education reform in Ecuador, the operation has included actions m the Policy
Matrix that will tend to tmprove teachers training in the topics of bilingual and multilevel education It will
also define a strategy to improve incentives for teachers to remain in rural areas. These strategies wilU be
decided by consensus, on a consultative process that will involve different stakeholders the government,
the teachers union, and the civil society
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudtce thefinal determination of the
parties' claims on the disputed areas



5   Identify the key stakeholders and descrnbe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The following groups were consulted during the preparation of the CAS as well as specifically for this
operation
FEI - Federaci6n Ecuatoriana de Indigenas
CONAIE - Confederaci6n de Nacionalidades Indigenas del Ecuador
FEINE - Consejo de Pueblos y Organizaciones Indfgenas Evange11cas del Ecuador
FE NOCIN - Confederaci6n Nacional de Organizaciones Campesinas, Indigenas y Negras
C.N A. - Confederaci6n de Nacionalidades Afro Ecuatorianas
The consultation process involved discussing with these groups the set of problems that had been identified
as essential to tackle in the programmatic human development reform operation, and obtaining some
feedback from these groups as to how these problems were important and if there were additional problems
that should be tackled. The focus groups identified blingual education (and incentives for teachers to stay
in rural areas) together with tiansparency and accountability as the main problems m the education sector
The second and third phases of the opelition include atditional consultations with different stakeholders
and civil society groups, as well as devising a mechanism to promote participation of civil society groups,
including indigenous populations.
E. Safeguards Classification (select one) Category is deterrmned by the highest impact in any policy Or on basis
of cumulative impacts from inultuple safeguards Whenever an individual safeguard policy is tnggered the provisions of
that policy apply.                                       v
[(] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or signmficant technical and institutional risks in
management of one or more safeguard areas
LX] S2 - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are hmited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ I S3. - No safeguard issues
[ 3 SF - Financial inte!rmediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
s4mlar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
isSues



F. Disclosuie, Re utieicutLs
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan-
Date of receipt by the Bank                   N/A
Date of "in-country" disclosure               N/A
Date of submission to InfoShop                N/A
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
N/A
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:
Date of receipt by the Bank                   N/A
Date of "in-country" disclosure               N/A
Date of submission to InfoShop                N/A
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:
Date of receipt by the Bank                   April 1, 2003
Date it min-co.uniry" disclosure              April 5', 2003
Date of submission to Info$hop                N/A
Pest Management Plan.
Date of receipt by the Bank                   N/A
Date to *In- m-outury" disclosure             N/A
D) ine of submission to InfoShop              N/A
Dam .S.qjrr 211aii,ia> nm Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                   N/A
,te c t in-; 'untoy" disclosure               N/A
Date of submission to InfoShop                N/A
11 inco.unhl y disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why
Siwi,d and subbmitted by                      Name                            Date
Task Tearn Leader:                            Daniel Dulitzky
Project Safeguards Specialist I                                     CJ            ¶ I   3
PruoJeci Safeguards Specialist 2
Pi o1eet Safeguards Specialist 3.
Aijproved by                                  Name   D.GrK 'r,-                Date
R¢gional Safeguards Coordinator                                               pr. Dn: d Qutntoro  //J|'. pr. '
Sector,Manager                               X" SA.            j
WB 148244
L \ECU PRSL\lntegrated Safeguards Data Sheet doc
March 31, 2003 2 49 PM



