6f-,l ) T:, - / 7--- 1 l/CL.
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11736-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND P-ROMOTION PROJECT
MARCH 2, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)/
US$l = CFAF 605 (January 1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANAC-CI           Association Nationale des CREP et COOPEC de Cote d'lvoire (National Association of CRKEPs and
COOPECs of Cote d'lvoire)
ANSA             : Agencoe Nationalo des Services Agricoles (National Agency for Agricultural Services)
BCEAO             Banque Centrale des EtaF  de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank of West African States)
BIAOCI            Banque Internationale pour l-Afrique Occidentale en Cot o d'lvoire (International Bank of West African States
in Cote d'lvoire)
BICICI            Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l'lndustrie en C8te d'lvoire (International Bank for Commerce
and Industries in Cote d'Ivoire)
BICT              Banque Ivoirienne de Construction et de Travaux Publics (Ivorian Bank for Construction and Public Works)
BIDI              Banque Ivoirienne pour to D6veloppement Industriel (Ivorian Bank for Industrial Development)
BNDA              Banque Nationale pour le D6veloppement Agricole (National Bank for Agricultural Development)
CAA               Caisse Autonome d'Amortisaement (Debt Amortization Fund)
CFD               Caisse Frangaise de Developpement (French Development Fund)
CICM             : Centre International du Cr6dit Mutuel (French Center for Mutual Credit)
CIDA             : Canadian International Development Agency
CIDT              Compagnic Ivoirienne pour It D6veloppement du Textile (Ivorian Company for Textile Development)
CIDV              Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le Developpement des Vivriers (Ivorian Company for Foodcrops Development)
CIRAD             Centre de Coop6ration Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le Ddveloppement (French
Internatioial Center for Agricultural Research and Development)
CU: Central Management Unit
COOPEC            Cooperative d'Epargne et de Credit (Savings and Loans Cooperatives)
CREP             : Caissw Rurale d'Epargae et de Prets (Rural Savings and Loans Institutions)
FAC              : Fonds dAide et do CoopEration (French Fund for Cooperation and Development)
FFI               Formal Financial Intermediary
FRAR             : Fonds Regionaux d'Amdnagement Rural (Funds for Rural Works)
UVC               Groupements & Vocation Coop6rative (Cooperative Group)
IDEFOR            Instaitut des For&s (Forest Research Instiute)
IDESSA           : Institut des Savanes (Savannah Research Institute)
IFAD              International Fund for Agricultural Development
MINAGRA           Ministbre ca l'Agriculture et des Reasources Animales (Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources)
ONPR              Office National pour la Promotion Rurale (National Office for Rural Growth)
PMC              : Project Monitoring Committee
PNASA            : Projet National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles (National Agricultural Service Support Project)
RSU               Regional Service Unit
SAPH             : Socid6 Africaine de Plantation d'H6vEa (African Rubber Company)
SATMACI           SociEte d'Assistance Technique pour ta Modernisation Agricole (Agency for Agricultural Modernization)
SDID             : Societe de DEveloppement Inteantional Desjardins
SGBCI             Societe G&n&ale de Banques en Cote d'lvoire
SIB               SociEtE Ivoirienne de Banques
SODEPRA           SociEtE de Developpement des Productions Animales (Livestock Development Agency)
SODEs             Socidtes de d6velopprement (Development Agency)
SOGB              SociEt6 des Caoutchoucs de Grand-Bereby (Rubber Company of Grand-Bereby)
UMOA              Union Mondtaire Ouest Africaine (West African Monetary Union)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - Dccember 31
Tne exchange rate of the CFAF is fixed at 100:1 to the French Franc, which is a floating currency.



FOR OFCIAL USE OnLY
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PMg
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE                                    ..                      iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                 ................. .................... iv
I.     INTRODUCTION   .............................................1
II.    SECTOR BACKGROUND  . .......................................  I
A. Economic Setting  ...........................................   1
B. The Agricultural Sector ........................................ 3
C. Agricultural Institutions ........................................ 4
D. The Banking and Financial Sector ...........             ......................  5
E. Rural Financial Intermediation .      ...................................  7
1 - History and Background  .............           ......................  7
2 - Recent Developments ....................................I 7
3 - Present Legal and Financial Status of CREPs ......................  8
4 - Present and Projected Profitability
of the Network  .........................................  9
F. Donor Activities  ...........................................    11
G. Lessons Learned  ...........................................    11
II. THE PROJECT .12
A. Project Rationale, Objectives and
Description .12
B. Detailed Features .13
1. Rehabilitation and Development
of Local CREPs .14
2. Support to Regional Service Units .15
3. Support to the Central Management Unit .15
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Appraisal Mission which visited Cote d'Ivoire from
February 11 to February 22, 1993. The mission was led by Mr. Madani M. Tall (AF1AA), and
consisted of Mr. John Heath (AF1AA) and Ms. Pauline Quassivi (AF1AA). Mr. Andre Ryba
(AFIIE) was the peer reviewer. Ms. Assiata Soro (AF1AA) provided secretarial support. The
project Advisor is Mr. J. Delion (AFTES). Mr. Olivier Lafourcade is the Department Director, Mr.
Theodore Nkodo the Division Chief, and Mr. Jean-Claude Balcet the Section Chief.
T is document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page
IV.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT. DISBURSEMENT,
ACCOWNTS AND AUDITS. AND REPORTING   ........................  16
A. Project Costs ............................................    16
B. Project Financing  ..........................................    17
C. Procurement  ............................................   18
D. Disbursement  ............................................   21
E. Financial Management, Accounts and Reporting ........................  21
V.     PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTAION   ...................  22
A. Implementation Arrangements .       ...................................  22
B. Annual Work Programs  .         .....................................  23
C. Monitoring and Evaluation   .       ...................................  23
VI.    BENEFTS AND RISKS  ........................................   24
A. Benefits  .............................................                                24
B. Risks  .............................................   24
VII.   ASSURANCES. CONDATIONS AND RECOMENDATINS   ...............  24
ANNEXES
1. Project Organization Chart
2. Present and Projected Profitability of CREPs
3. Letter of Sector Policy (LSP)
4. Terms of References of Technical Assistance
5. Project Costs
6. Inplementation Schedule
7. Disbursement Profile
8. Implementation Arrangements
9. Outline of Training Program
10. Supervision Schedule
11. Key Monitoring Indicators
Map   IBRD N°24757



- iii -
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILlTATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.    DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1.    Rapport Mobilisation de I'Epargae et Distribution du Credit en C8te d'Ivoire, SDID, aoOlt
1987
2.    Pour la Relance des Cooperatives d'Epargne et de Credit en C6te d'Ivoire -Document I,
SDID, avril 1988
3.    Plan Directeur du Mouvement des Coopdratives d'Epargne et de Credit en COte d'lvoire,
DCGTx, aolt 1989
4.    Protocole d'Entente SDID-CICM, D6veloppement des CREP-C6te d'Ivoire, 1991
5.    Restructuration du Systeme Financier Ivoirien en Milieu Rural, Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique, juillet 1991
6.    CoopErative Rurale d'Epargne et de Prt - Approche SDID, R6al Veronneau, F6vrier i992
7.    Developpement du R6seau des CREP en C6te d'Ivoire, SociEte de DEveloppement
In£ernational Desjardins, juin 1992
8.    Support to Village Groups in the Eastern Savannah Region Project, IFAD, haly 1992
9.    Projet des Caisses Mutuelles de C6te d'Ivoire, Centre Inernational du CrEdit Mutuel, juillet
1992
10.  President's Report for a Financial Sector Adjustment Program, report N°. P-5632-IVC,
September 1992
11.   Rapport d'Activitds du semestre couvrant la p6riode du ler avril au 30 septembre 1992, Projet
d'Appui au Cr6dit Agricole REgion de Man, octobre 1992
B.    WORKING PAPERS
1.    Agricultural Sector Note
2.    Project Costs
3.    Network Organization



- iv -
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    The Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Beneficiaries: The Network of CREPs/COOPECs
Amount:      SDR 1.5 million (US$2.2 million equivalent)
Terms:       Standard IDA Terms, with 40 years maturity
Relending
Terms:       From the Republic of CMte d'Ivoire to the Network of CREPs and COOPECs on
standard IDA terms.
PrQjS
Description:  The project would help revitalize the CREP/COOPEC Network by rehabilitating
existing CREPs and assisting in the creation of new ones where justified. To this
end, it would capitalize on results achieved during the pilot operation by: (a)
completng the rehabilitation process; (b) providing technical assistance and training to
the CREP/COOPEC membership in accounting and basic financial management; and
(c) funding awareness campaigns designed to fully internalize the main principles of
the mutualistic movement and ensure a strong sense of ownership from the members.
In order to ensure long-term sustainability and financial independence of the
movement, project efforts would focus on rural savings mobilization.
To meet the above objectives, the project would include the following
components:
(a)    Rehabilitation and Development of Local CREPs.  Detailed audit and
financial restructuring of the 70 existing CREPs, improvement of their
accounting system, and training of members and managers.
Establishment of about 70 new CREPs nation-wide on the basis of
local market surveys and awareness campaigns.
(b)    Support to Regional Service Units (RSUs) to provide timely
supervision and support to rural CREPs in their immediate
geographical area. These regional units would be responsible for the
promotion and supervisory functions of the project in their area. In
particular, they would promote and assist in the creation of new
CREPs, provide training to members, ensure that all prudential ratios
are met, see that the loan portfolio is ia good standing, and, during
the restructuring phase and beyond, make sure that important efforts at
loan recovery are made.



(c)     Support to the Central Management Unit (CMU). The project would
support the establishment of the CMU, on the basis of the small unit
already operating with CICM support, to provide the Network with
policy and operational guidelines, manage CREPs excess liquidity and
supervise their activities and RSUs' activities. The project would
fInance the necessary technical assistance to the CMU and its
investments and operating costs.
Estimated Project Costs
PROJECT COST SUMMAR)
X Total
-      ----------------------  -----------------------  X Foreign  Base
Local  Foreign   Total     Local   Foreign  Total        Exchange   Costs
-----(CFAF million)-----     -----(USS million)-----
A. Rehab. of local CREPs           598.2    440.8   1039.0       1.2    0.5       1.7        42.4      12.1
a. Regional Service Units         1258.0  2469.9   3728.0        2.2     3.9      6.1        66.3      43.2
C. Central Management Unit         757.5  3096.6  3854.0         1.4    5.0       6.4        80.3      44.7
Total BASELINE COSTS              2613.7  6007.3   8621.0        4.9     9.4     14.3        65.1     100.0
Physical Contingencies           70.8    133.2    204.0       0.1     0.2      0.3        65.3       2.4
Price Contingencies             249.8   454.6    704.5        -.2     1.4      1.2       120.2       8.2
-- - - - - -- - - - - -       ... ... . . .. . . ..      -- - - -- - - -
Total PROJECTS COSTS              2934.3  6595.1   9529.5        4.8    11.0     15.8        69.2     110.5
* Figures may not add up due to rounding and adjustment Pfter devaluation of the CFAF.
Estimated Disbursements from the IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year
1994         1995          1996            1997         1998         1999
…U------------          -------YS$ million----------------
Annual                    0.2          0.3            0.5            0.4           0.5          0.3
Cumulative                0.2          0.3            1.0            1.4           1.9          2.2
Benefits and risks
Project Benefits. The project would support the Government's efforts to develop an efficient, low
cost, grassroots rural financial intermediation system responding to rural populations' needs that the
formal banking system will be unable or unwilling to service even in the medium to long-term. An
efficient CREP network will provide rural dwellers with much needed deposit safekeeping services
and access to short and medium-term financing for productive and social expenses, thereby improving
rural incomes and living cond;tions and reducing poverty. It will also help mobilize and recycle rural
savings for productive purposes throughout the economy.
Risks. The main risk of the project lies in the fragility of the existing network. In fact, many rural
dwellers have been reluctant to join the CREP movement in part due to misinformation or the
perception that the movement was an arm of the Govermnent or belonged to few village elders. To
reduce this risk, considerable efforts will be deployed in the area of sensitization, awareness



- vi -
campaigns, and training. Another risk concerns the low level of know-how of current CREP
managers and administrative entities on sound financial practices. This risk will be minimized
through: (a) appropriate training; (b) close supervision from both the central and regional management
units; and (c) clearly spelled-out operational policies and procedures. A final risk concerns the
specificity of the CREPs membership which in the past consisted mostly of farmers, and, therefore,
made the Network vulnerable to cyclical pressures (physical, marketing and financial) often
encountered in the agricultural sector. To minimize this risk, the resource base of CREPs would be
enlarged by actively seeking membership from a large variety of rural dwellers (civil servants,
traders, craftsmen, etc.) to reduce the variability of deposits associated with agricultural incomes.
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable.



- vii -
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJE
KEY FEATURES OF THE RURAL SECTOR (1991 
% of Total
1. ExpOrts (CPAF billion)                                                    Exports
- Cocoa                                                 228          30
- Coffee                                                 91          92
- Timber                                                 78          10
- Cotton                                                 42           6
- Rubber                                                 16           2
- Pineapple                                              11           1
2. Population
- Total (million, 1990)                                  11.7
- Growth rate (%)                                         3.8
- Rural population (%, 1990)                             53
- Urban population (%, 1990)                             47
3. Production ('000 tons)
- Cocoa                                                 820
- Coffee                                                220
- Cotton                                                242
Sugar                                                  140
- Rubber                                                 67
- Rice Paddy                                            750
- Yams                                                2,820
4. Economic Overview
- Gross Domestic Product (CFAP billion)               2.690
G GDP Real growth (%)                                   0.8
5. Foreetry Area ('000 km2)
- Total land                                            322
- Forestry                                              137
- Savannah                                              183
6. Government Revenues
- Total Tax Revenues (1990, CFAF billion)               521
- Total External Debt (% of GNP) (1990)                 204
7. Social Indicators
- Life expectancy at birth (year)                        55
- Adult illiteracy (%)
* Female                                              60
* Total                                               46
- Infant mortality rate                                  95
(per 10,000 live births)



THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01         The Government of CMte d'lvoire has requested assistance from the Bank for the
implementation of a Rural Savings and Loans Rehabilitation and Promotion Project. The project was
identified as a priority investment to fill the void left after the collapse of the National Agricultural
Development Bank (BNDA) and develop an efficient financial intermediate system in rural are'as. To
this end, the Bank, jointly witii the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) started the
preparation of a long-term National CREP rehabilitation program in 1988. A pilot project was
initiated in 1990. It is funded by CIDA and entrusted to the Canadian Societe Desjardins (SDID). At
about the same time, the Caisse Frangaise de Developpement (CFD), through the Centre International
du Credit Mutuel (CICM). also resumed its assistance t3 the CREP/COOPEC2 movement.
1.02         The project supports the Government's objective of developing viable financial
institutions which cter to the needs of rural populations. CREPs have demonstrated their potential to
be an efficient medium to serve the inteiests of rural populations at the grassroots. Consequently,
emphasis is given in the project to the rehabilitation of existing CREPs and assistance in the creation
of new ones where justified. The project would be fully in line with the financial sector reform
program supported by the Bank in the context of Cote d'Ivoire's medium-term macro-economic
program, including the FY92 Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
HI. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.    Economic Setting
2.01         Since the early 1980s, Cote d'Ivoire has faced several fiscal and balance of payment
crises. They reflected not only inadequate macroeconomic policies but also more fundamental
distortions in trade, finance, public sector, and pricing policies, thereby adversely affecting the
efficient allocation of resources and constraining sectoral growth prospects.
2.02         The Government has responded by adopting various stabilization and adjustment
programs which were supported by the IMF and the World Bank. In the context of these programs,
the Government has sought to correct its macroeconomic imbalances and the increasing lack of
international competitiveness through internal adjustment.
2 CREPs (Caisses Rurales d'Epargne et de Prets) are found in rural areas; COOPECs (Cooperatives
d'Epargne et de Credit) are found in semi-urban and urban areas. They are all part of the same network
(Reseau CREP/COOPEC) and operate along the same rules, regulations and management.



2.03         The strategy of internal adjustment was also at the core of the Govermnent's medium-
term economic framework (MT), adopted in 1991, which spelled out structural reforms aimed at
restoring international competitiveness and returning to a path of sustainable growth. To attain this
objective the Government has pursued tight fiscal and monetary policies, and implemented reforms in
the areas of trade and finance.
2.04         Moreover, the Government has initiated a privatization process, involving about 50
public enterprises, and sought to strengthen human resource development. The MTF was supported
by three SECALs of the World Bank and a stand-by arrangement of the IMF. In addition, the World
Bank has approved three technical assistance credits to support the Government in implementing its
economic reforms, privatization program, and human resources development program.
2.05         Despite progress in implementing key parts of the economic program, recent
economic developments show that the Ivorian economy continues to suffer from substantial fiscal and
balance of payments imbalances and considerable structural rigidities. As these macroeconom;e
imbalances persisted, the economic decline observed since 1986 was not reversed. With investment
levels hovering around 10 percent during the early 1990s, stagnant export receipts for the country's
main export products, cocoa and coffee, and stagnant industzial production, real GDP fell, on
average, by about 1 percent per year during 1990-93.
2.06         Faced with this difficult economic situation, the Government therefore decided, in
close consultation with its partner countries in the CFA zoDe, to complement the on-going internal
adjustment efforts with a realignment of the parity of the CFA franc to the equivalent of 100 CFA to
1 FF, with the effect from January 12, 1994.
2.07         With the re-alignment of the CFA franc, the Government has reformulated its
medium-term adjustment program in a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for the 1994-96 period which
will be circulated to the Board shortly. During that time, this program aims to (i) raise the rate of
growth to about 6 percent beginning from 1996, (ii) achieve primary surpluses in the Government's
budget, (iii) strengthen external competitiveness through trade, price, and regulatory reform, (iv) seek
debt relief from official bilateral and commercial creditors at concessional terms, and (v) intensify
human resource development and expand poverty alleviation measures with a view to protecting the
most vulnerable groups during the adjustment period.
2.08         It is expected that, with the implementadon of the Government's program, the
recession will be halted and the country will return to a path of positive real growth rates in 1994,
accelerating to annual rates of 5 percent and bigher from 1995 onwards. The recovery will be led by
a sustained increase of investmant levels. This increase will come in response to the anticipated
implementation of structural reforms in such areas as trade, finance, and the labor market, thereby
instilling investors' confidence in the Ivorian economy. Moreover, private investment will be
increasingly geared toward non-traditional export activiPies, a key sector which is expected to grow
rapidly in the wake of the devaluation and to be a major source for new employment opportunities.
2.09         Due to the important debt overhang, most of the investrment will be financed by
domestic savings. They are expected to increase substantially as public savings will increase due, in
large part, to constraining real growth of current expenditure. In addition, private savings will be
stimulated by, among others, a recovery in economic growth and an improvement in the financial
position of tradable goods, notably in the agricultural sector. In this context, the strengthening of



-3 -
rural financial institutions assumes a key role. Increased rural savings can both be recycled into the
overall economy and help populations in the nrral areas undertake social and productive activities. It
is also expected that a strong and efficient rural financial network would undoubtedly play a key role
in the medium to long term in developing agriculture, thereby helping reverse the trend of economic
deterioration in the rural sector.
B.    The Agricultural Sector
2.10         Agrnculture is the most important sector in the Ivorian economy. It accounts for
about 35 percent of GDP, provides employment for about two thirds of the country's labor force,
generates close to 60 percent of export earnings and is a major source of fiscal revenues. The sector
is key to developing the country's industrial and services sectors.
2.11         The total land area of 320,000 km2 can be divided into a forest region, which covers
about 40 percent of the territory, and a savannah region, accounting for the remaining 60 percent.
With higher rainfall and better soils, the forest region has a richer resource base than the savannah.
Most of the origirnal forest cover (estimated at about 16 million hectares) has been cleared for
agriculture, leaving less than 3 million hectares of intact forest, mostly in gazetted areas and national
parks. There has been heavy migration into the forest zone from the savannah region and from
neighboring Sahelian countries. Cocoa and coffee occupy two thirds of the total cropped area and
dominate the forest region's economy. Annual food crops (rice, maize, yams, plantain and cassava)
account for about 25 percent of the cropped area, while other tree crops (oil palm, coconut and
rubber) and industrial crops (banana and pineapples) cover about five percent.
2.12         About 40 percent of all farmers in the savannah region grow cotton. Cotton revenues
account for almost one third of the cash incomes of savannah households. Cotton yields are high by
African standards (1,400 kg/ha) and the productivity of ginning is excellent (44 percent). Maize
accounts for 26 percent of the area planted, followed by yams (24 percent), cotton (16 percent), rice
(13 percent), sorghum/millet (9 percent), groundnuts (7 percent) and cassava (4 percent).
2.13         Despite the present problems faced by the eocoa and coffee subsectors, C8te
d'}voire's economic development depends heavily on the agricultural sector which has considerable
potential for growth and diversification. To realize this potential, technical and structural constraints
need to be removed, special efforts need to be made to mobilize savings in support of productive and
social investments. The absence of a viable and efficient financial intermediation system in the rural
areas has prevented rural populations to reach their full developmental potential. As a result,
populations in rural areas have become more vulnerable to the shocks of the recent economic
deterioration. The proposed Rural Savings and Loans Rehabilitation Project will establish an
environment conducive to helping rural populations address some of their most pressing financial
needs.



-4 -
C.    Agricultural Institutions
2.14         Ministry of A,-riculture. The Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources
(MINAGRA) comprises departments responsible for crops, livestock, fisheries, forestry and
cooperatives. There are two central directorates handling Programming and Agricultural Training,
and separate directorates in each of the regions. MINAGRA has overall responsibility for
coordinating the activities of the various institutions in the agricultural sector. Government policies
are implemented through various development agencies (SODEs) responsible for extension services,
input distribution, processing and marketing. Within MINAGRA, the Direction de la Mutualite et de
la Cooperation (DMC) is in charge of promoting the development of cooperatives. Until now, this
directorate was responsible for providing technical backstopping and supervision to the CREP
network. Constant staffing and funding problems have prevented DMC, to properly fulfill its
mandate. Lax supervision by DMC, in turn, has contributed to the deterioration of the CREP
network.
2.15         Extension and Training. To date, extension and training Jf farmers and herders have
been provided by the following institutions: (a) the Cotton Development Agency (CIDT, created in
1974), for cotton and associated food crops in the savannah region; (b) the Company for the
Modernization of Ivorian Agriculture (SATMACI, created in 1958), for cocoa and coffee planters in
the forest region; (c) the Food Crop Development Agency (CIDV, created in 1988), for all food crop
producers over the entire national territory; (d) the Oilpalm Company (Palmindustrie, created in
1963), for oilpalm and coconut farmers in the forest region; (e) the African Rubber Company (SAPH,
created in 1956) and the Rubber Company of Grand Bereby (SOGB, created in 1979), for rubber
producers in the forest region; and (f) the Livestock Development Agency (SODEPRA, created in
1970), for cattle herders in northern Cote d'Ivoire and for small ruminants producers over the entire
national territory.
2.16         At present, the Government is undertaking a complete revamping of the national
extension system, as well as a reorganization of MINAGRA, under the proposed IDA financed
National Agricultural Services Restructuring Project (PNASA, FY94). The project entails: (a)
establishing streamlined extension services through the merger of SATMACI, CIDV and SODEPRA
into one decentralized national agency; this agency will have private-type status; and (b) reorganizing
and strengthening the regional and departmental services of MINAGRA. The project's focus is on
strengthening research-extension linkages and promoting the systematic use of the farming systems'
approach, supporting the development of farmers' associations and strengthening MINAGRA in key
areas (policy making, monitoring and statistics).
2.17         Research. In 1984, COte d'Ivoire took over all research institutes originally
established by France. Thereafter, these institutes were administered jointly by the Ministry of
Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESRS) and the French International Center for
Development Oriented Agronomic Research (CIRAD). This arrangement came to an end in 1991
when MESRS took over complete tutelage of agricultural research. At present, the agricultural
research establishment in C6te d'Ivoire consists of the following institutes: (a) the Savannah Research
Institute (ODESSA), based in Bouake that has mandate over crop and livestock production throughout
the savannah region; (b) the Forest Institute (IDEFOR), based in Abidjan, that has mandate over cash
crops in the forest region; and (c) the Ivorian Technological Research Center (CIRT) and the Ivorian
Tropical Technology Institute which have responsibility for research on agricultural technology.
Links between research and extension agencies remain weak although some improvement in this area



- 5 -
has been made as a result of the Bank's first Agricultural Extension Project (PVA, Ln. 2765-IVC).
The upcoming National Agricultural Services Restructuring Project (PNASA) would capitalize on
progress to date and further improve linkages between extension and research.
2.18         Farmers' Cooperatives. The Government has long been committed to the
development of cooperatives, particularly those capable of handling the primary marketing of cocoa,
coffee and cotton. Throughout the country there are numerous cooperative groups (GVCs), each with
a management committee. The GVCs are structured upwards in unions and regional federations. In
the forest region there are about 2,700 GVCs with a combined membership of about 222,000. These
GVCs were responsible for collecting 30 percent of the coffee and cocoa harvested in 1991. Thus
far, there is little scope for them to increase their share of primary marketing because, unlike the
licensed buyers, they cannot easily obtain commercial credit. In fact, since they cannot pay cash at
the farm gate, many producers prefer to sell to licensed buyers. In this regard, GVCs as well as
individual members would be encouraged to adhere to the CREP movement. To this end, awareness
and sensitization campaigns targeting GVCs will be initiated at project start.
2.19         Regional Land Management Funds. The FRARs (Fonds Regionaux d'Amenagement
Rural) were set up for each of the regions by a 1973 decree, with financial assistance from UNDP.
The initiative entails provision by the Government of matching funds to communities interested in
developing social and economic infrastructure (pumps, schools, dispensaries, rural roads, etc).
Access to the FRARs presupposes that communities themselves make a substantial contribution to
investment, the exact proportion depending on the type of infrastructure and the means of the
community. The poorest communities, as defined on the basis of their 'contributing capacity", are
expected to pay ten percent of the initial investment cost, the richest communities 85 percent. Almost
three-quarters of these projects were of a social rather than a directly productive nature.
D.    The Banking and Financial Sector
2.20         Cote d'Ivoire is a key member of the West African Monetary Union (UMOA). The
country accounts for 50 percent of the union's money supply and 55 percent of credits outstanding.
2.21         As of January 31, 1991, fourteen commercial banks were operating in C8te d'Ivoire,
with total assets of CFAF 1,332 billion. Over the years, these banks have developed an extensive
network including 165 branches, of which 92 are outside Abidjan. Four large retail banks account
for close to 90 percent of loans, deposits and Central Bank refinancing. Three of these larger banks,
incorporated in 1962, are affiliates of major F-ench commercial banks (Societe Generale de Banque
de Cote d'Ivoire - SGBCI, an affiliate of Societ Generale; Banque Internationale pour le Commerce
et l'Industrie - BICICI, an affiliate of Banque Nationale de Paris; and Societe Ivoirienne de Banque -
SIB, an affiliate of Credit Lyonnais). The fourth Bank (Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique
Occidentale - BIAOCI), inco orated in 1965 as an affiliate of the French BIAO-SA, became a state-
owned bank when the latter collapsed in 1990. However, the bank is now scheduled for
privatization. The other ten banks, established in the mid-1970's at the peak of the coffee and cocoa
boom, are smaller, and operate mostly as merchant banks or term lenders. Several of the smaller
banks are affiliates of American or British international banks (e.g., Citibank, Barclays), while others
are branches of transnational banks operating throughout Africa (e.g., Ecobank). In addition, there
are ten non-bank lending institutions providing leasing, hire purchase services and term finance. The
Abidjan Stock Exchange (Bourse des Valeurs) and several insurance companies also operate as
financial intermediaries. Between 1988 and 1990, the banking sector in Cote d'Ivoire experienced



-6 -
difficulties because of the economic recession and substantial arrears by both the Government and the
private sector. As a result, a major reform program was undertaken by Government. This reform
program is being supported by the Bank through the FY92 Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
2.22         While commercial banks are very active in urban areas, they have provided only
minimal services to the rural areas, except for the financing of cocoa and coffee marketing campaigns
and, to a limited extent, of large agricultural outfits. The commercial banks have been reluctant to
move into rural areas because of the real or perceived high risks and costs of operating in these areas.
This role was to be played by BNDA, the now-defunct Agricultural Development Bank. BNDA was
established in 1968. It mobilized rural deposits and participated in the financing of large agricultural
projects and crop marketing campaigns, and provided bridge loans to farmers. It also managed lines
of credit established by donors. Before its liquidation in October 1991, BNDA had assets of CFAF
94 billion and a large network of 32 permanent and 44 temporary branches scattered across the
country.
2.23         From its very beginning, BNDA had been successful in attracting rural deposits which
increased at a ten percent annual rate on average. However, the bank suffered from high operating
costs and a large non-performing portfolio, and its financial situation continuously deteriorated from
the mid 1980's. In 1987, a restructuring program was initiated and later supported through the Bank-
financed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL-FY90). It included: (a) the consolidation of
public sector deposits and of overdrafts with BCEAO; (b) the assumption of BNDA's external debt by
the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), the Government's debt agency; and (c) fresh money
from the Government to fill the remaining financing gap. The plan also called for the bank to operate
under a two window-system: a first window for regular commercial risks funded by the bank's
deposits, and a second window for higher risk lending financed by government grants or donors' lines
of credit, with the lending risk assumed by the Government. This would have separated development
from commercial operations, and protected depositors against risks involved in financing development
oriented operations.
2.24         However, the Government was unable to provide its financial contribution and the two
window-system was never set up. With over 90 percent of its portfolio non-performing, the bank
continued to accumulate losses. In 1990, the abrupt closing of six agencies prompted substantial
withdrawals of deposits which further accelerated BNDA's decline. In October 1991, the
Government decided that BNDA could not be rehabilitated. It was therefore liquidated.
2.25         With BNDA's liquidation, developing an alternative financial instrument in rural areas
has become a priority for both the Government and the donor community, as a large percentage of
rural populations did deposit their funds with BNDA. This need was fully highlighted by the
Government during the preparation of the Financial Sector Adjustment Program in a Statement of
Sector Development Policy. To this end, renewed emphasis is being placed on the rehabilitation of
the rural savings and loans cooperatives Network (Reseau CREP/COOPEC) which is expected to
become the vehicle for savings mobilization in rural areas and provide rural populations with access
to credit services that commercial banks are not able to provide, namely small loans and deposits,
daily access to funds, proximity to villages, etc. The project would be the first phase of this
rehabilitation. It would emphasize the Network's institutional and financial restructuring. CREPs
would not be expected at first to play a major role in the financing of the development of the
agricultural sector since their deposit base is limited and their weak operational and managerial
capacity would not enable them to serve as a channel for routing APEX lines of credit destined for



- 7 -
the agricultural sector. Also, it is important that the Network keeps its grass-roots nature and only
relends resources it has mobilized. In the short-to-medium term, CREPs would cater to rural
populations' credit needs for small scale productive and social activities.
E.    Rural Financial Intermediation
2.26         History and Background. In Cote d'Ivoire as in most other African countries,
commercial banks have shied away from providing adequate financial services (small deposits and
loans) to rural populations. Although the main commercial banks have established branches in most
urban centers outside Abidjan, their main interest has been to mobilize deposits, and, to a limited
extent, cater to credit needs of well established clients mostly in commerce, small industries etc.
Their reluctance to lend to farmers and rural dwellers is due to the perceived risks and high
administrative costs associated with lending to smallholders; and to the fact that these costs cannot be
adequately covered by interest rates banks can charge. It is estimated that in 1990 less than four
percent of total lending by Formal Financial Intermediaries (FIs) was in favor of agriculture, with
BNDA accounting for more than three quarters of credit to agriculture. In view of this situation, the
Government has taken steps since the mid-1970's to promote grass-root rural savings and loans
cooperatives that would be able to efficiently respond to the financial needs of rural dwellers.
2.27         The start of the CREP/COOPEC movement in Cote d'Ivoire dates back to 1976. The
period of 1976-81 saw a rapid development of CREPs under the guidance of the Office National pour
la Promotion Rurale (ONPR) with the support of the French Centre International du Credit Mutuel
(CICM). During this period, 66 CREPs, with a membership of about 7,600 and total savings of
around CFAF 250 million, were established with close links to BNDA which was responsible for
managing CREPs liquidity and providing operational assistance. The following three years (1982-
1984) were marked by growing difficulties for the CREP/COOPEC movement. The interruption of
the assistance provided by CICM and the dismantlement of ONPR, whose responsibilities were
transferred to the Direction de la Mutualite et de la Cooperation (DMC) of the Ministry of
Agriculture, resulted not only in a slow-down in the creation of new CREPs but also in a marked
deterioration in the management of existing ones. Loan delinquency became widespread partly
because of the 1982-83 drought (which greatly affected income generation in rural areas), but also
because of the lack of proper supervision and inspection and a reluctance to enforce financial
discipline.
2.28         The Network also functioned without policy guidance and under weak institutional and
regulatory arrangements. CREPs were being opened in an ad-hoc fashion without financial
justification. There was no clear strategy for the Network's development. By 1991, about a third of
the 76 CREPs were inactive, and the total bad loans of the movement amounted to CFAF 264 million
(44 percent of total deposits and members' capital). Since 1991, 22 additional CREPs have been
closed.
2.29         Recent Developments. There is a large untapped savings potential in rural areas and
an urgent need for safekeeping and efficient financial intermediation services that commercial banks
will not be able or willing to offer even in the medium to long-term. Given the importance of
developing a rural financial institution that would efficiently cater to the needs of rural populations,
the Bank, jointly with the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), started in 1988 the
preparation of a Pilot CREP Rehabilitation Project to be implemented in the Man Region. This pilot
project was to promote the development of a CREP/COOPEC network that would: (a) be based on



- 8 -
growth from grassroots level; and (b) emphasize savings mobilization. In 1990, the French
International Center for Mutual Credit (CICM) decided to resume its assistance to the movement with
funding from the French Cooperation Ministry (FAC). Both SDID and CICM were then mandated
by the Government to promote jointly the development of a grass;oots-type rural savings network.
2.30         With CIDA financing, implementation of the pilot operation, entrusted to the
Canadian Societe Desjardins (SDID), started in 1990. In the first seven months of its operations,
SDID undertook a thorough diagnostic of the status of the each of the twelve CREPs in the Man
region. Four CREPs were retained for immediate rehabilitation, operations of a further three were
suspended (to be resumed provided certain conditions, related essentially to recovery of loans,
changes in management and organizational structure) and the remaining five CREPs were liquidated.
The pilot project also undertook sensitization of CREP members, training of its managers and
members and initiated actions for the establishment of three or four new CREPs within the region.
The major focus of CICM's activities has been on carrying out the diagnostic of the financial
structure and management of individual CREPs and the establishment and management of a Central
Management Unit, located in Abidjan to carry out inspections and manage excess liquidity. It has
assisted in the opening of about 20 new CREPs and closing of ten that were not performing.
2.31         Present Legal and Financial Status of CREPs. The CREP/COOPEC network is not
subject to the regulations of the banking sector. The Network is currently operating under a
legislative framework defined by the 1977 Cooperative Law (Law No.77-332). This law provides a
wide framework with almost no restrictions on the Network's development. However, it is not
specifically tailored to the needs of rural financial cooperatives, and, as such, it does not provide the
guidelines and safeguards necessary for their financial operations. A regulatory framework for rural
savings and loans cooperatives is under preparation by BCEAO with technical support from the
SDID. This regulatory framework ("Loi Cadre") and subsequent implementation decrees will apply
to mutualistic-type financial cooperatives in the UMOA. In the meantime, the prevailing current legal
framework would be strengthened under the project by: (a) a revision of CREPs' statutes and by-
laws; and (b) commitment by the Government through a Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) to give the
Network freedom of operation, in accordance with rules democratically established by its own
management. During its constitutive General Assembly on April 9, 1993, the Association Nationale
des CREP/COOPEC de COte d'Ivoire (ANAC-CI) was formally established, its statutes adopted and
its membership approved. ANAC-CI is legally empowered to commit the Network, guide it through
its rehabilitation phase and develop a coherent growth strategy.
2.32         The total membership of CREPs presently stands at 20,200, i.e. less than 3 percent of
estimated rural households in Cote d'lvoire. Total deposits represent about 0.1 percent of private
deposits of the country's commercial banks of CFAF 570 billion. Average membership per CREP
(200) and deposits per member (CFAF 40,000) are relatively low and few rural CREPs presently
have a financially viable size (estimated at about CFAF 15 million of deposits). As of September 30,
1991, the Network's estimated accumulated losses were about CFAF 300 million. Use of the
Network's accumulated reserves and stepped up loan recovery efforts during FY92 have contributed
to reduce the financial gap. This gap, estimated at about CFAF 180 million as of December 31, 1992
would have to be financed by external funds. A substantial amount of financial management and
rehabilitation will need to be undertaken at the level of each local CREP in order to re-establish local
populations' confidence in CREPs. This is a prerequisite to increasing participation in the movement
and make it financially viable and sustainable over the long run. To this end, a number of corrective



- 9 -
measures are envisaged in the proposed operation, in particular with regards to better supervision,
training and sound credit and savings policies and practices.
2.33           Present and Projected Profitability. Detailed audits undertaken during the pilot phase
have indicated that the majority of the existing cooperatives have a potential for financial viability.
Those that were considered not viable were liquidated. During the project period, important cost
containment measures and safeguards would be established and enforced: rigorous financial control
and inspection of accounts would be undertaken systematically; accounts would be audited annually by
external auditors; a 100 percent repayment rate would be mandated and the ratio of loans outstanding
to total deposit would be limited initially at a low level and gradually increased at a pace that reflects
the financial health of each individual CREP.
2.34           Deposits and Loans. The expected evolution of CREPs' membership and deposits,
shown in Annex 2, is summarized in the table below.
Estimated Targets of CREPs Expansion
| Current (n-1)
I as of 12/92       (n)   (n+1)           (n+2)     (n+3)        (n+4)      (n.5)
A. No. of viable CREPs         70          79        101         124         134         142        142
B. No. of mewbrs            20200       27386      42204       65699        88414      102676    112598
(CFAF '000)
C. Members' equity              0       82158       126612     216805      318306      369632    405354
0. Savings                  584681     1071149    1777953     2885247     4134196     4979409    5698550
E. Outstanding loans        227131      116936      3Z1345     711181     142623      2067098    2489705
F. Total deposits in       296091      919963    1391371      2081323     2570404     2756162    3013902
banks                                       I          I           I _
2.35           Financial projections presented in Annex 2 are based on the following key
assumptions: (a) increase in deposits by 12.5 percent annually; (b) a five percent increase of operating
costs per year; (c) lending to members at a rate of at least 22 percent per annum; (d) total lending
amounts limited to 20 percent of total saving deposits mobilized in year 1 and increasing to 50 percent
by year 3; (e) interest earnings of 11.5 percent per year on excess liquidity; (t) interest payment of
four percent on members' deposits; and (g) a mandated loan repayment rate of 100 percent for all
members. Profitability scenarios are also based on the assumption that a number of CREPs would be
established within semi-urban or urban areas. Former depositors of the now-defunct BNDA, most of
wliom have now been reimbursed, would be targeted and encouraged to become members of CREPs.
It is expected that within ten years, at least half of deposits collected would originate from CREPs in
semi-urban or urban areas and the balance from rural CREPs. It also is expected that average



- 10-
membership in rural and mixed CREPs/COOPECs would grow from 200 to 650 and from 350 to
2000 respectively by year 10.
2.36            The projected financial viability of the Network (see Annex 2) is summarized below.
Most CREPs within the Network should become profitable at the primary level during the proposed
project period ending in 1999. Temporary operating losses would be incurred by newly opened
CREPs which would be allowed a limited four-year period to break even. Rigorous cost containment
measures (part time opening, manager's salary adjustment, authorized litrited amount of operating
expenditures) would be applied to ensure viability. Key monitoring indicators such as loan recovery
rates, loans to deposits ratios, administrative and operating costs, etc., would be strictly enforced.
However, although financial projections indicate that the CREPs would be able to cover an increasing
share of the total operating costs of the Network (including those of the Regional Units and of the
Central Management Unit) it is not expected that the Network as a whole would become fully self-
financed during the first phase of the rehabilitation program. In subsequent phases, the Network
would be expected to cover all operating and development expenditures incurred at the regional level
(over a ten-year period), and then become totally financially autonomous, i.e. able to finance
expenditures at both the regional and the central levels (15/18-year horizon). Therefore, during the
next 15 years, technical backstopping, training and management support at the regional/central level
would still have to be covered in part by donors and/or the Government. It is estimated that the
Network would have to generate about CFAF 15-20 billion of savings before it is fully able to cover
all development and operating costs.
Projected Financial Situation of the Network
(CFAF million)
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    1994-1999    2004   2010
project
period
CREPS
Total Savings                     1074    1784   2908   4168   5195                    13061  29800
Annual Profits 1/                   13      20      43    120    221          417        870   2311
Annual deficits Z/                 (83)    (83)   (87)   (29)   (25)          (307)        -      -
RSU
Contribution from CREPs Profits _/   4       6      13      36      66        125        261    693
Operating Costs                   (178)   (230)  (250)  (252)  (263)        (1173)      (352)  (472)
RSU operating deficit             (174)   (224)   (237)  (216)  (197)        (1048)      (91)  +221
cMu
Retained margin on CREPs liquidity  20      31      44      58      83        236        215    477
Operating Costs                   (174)   (173)  (181)  (171)   (175)         (874)     (205)  (245)
CMU operating deficit             (154)   (142)  (137)  (113)   (92)         (638)       (10)  +232
Total network                     (411)   (448)  (460)  (358)  (313)         (1990)     (101)  +2764
j/ of profit making CREPs
2t of deficit making CREPs
J/ 30X of CREPs' profit



- 11 -
F.    Donor Activities in the Rural Financial Sector
2.37         Until recently, the agricultural sector has been the main engine of growth in COte
d'Ivoire. As such, it has benefitted from a considerable amount of donor support. In particular, the
rural credit sub-sector has received assistance from most of the donors present in Cote d'Ivoire.
Therefore, the proposed Bank proiect would draw on experiences gained through the implementation
of past projects. To date, the rural credit sub-sector has received support from:
(a)   the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) which supports, inter alia,
the pilot CREP Rehabilitation Project, the promotion of rural agricultural and forestry
cooperatives, and a pilot project specifically tailored to the needs of rural women;
(b)   the French Cooperation Ministry (MAC) which has fnanced the promotion of rural
savings and loans institutions along with technical backing from the Centre
International du Credit Mutuel (CICM);
(c)   the European Union (EU) which is supporting a rural cooperative development. This
project stresses savings mobilization and financial assistance to cooperative groups.
EU has also established a CFAF 2 billion line of credit destined to assist cooperatives
and farming groups in the financing of agricultural marketing campaigns; and
(d)   the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) which is supporting a
Rural Development Project in KatiolalDabakala with a view to improving that
region's extension service. As part of that project, it is assisting the creation of eight
to ten CREPs.
2.38         A number of small projects, initiated and managed by non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), have credit components. These projects are usually localized and target specific
communities. Furthermore, a number of informal rural savings and loans "institutions' are found in
the commerce and transport sectors. Finally, several agricultural development projects, ongoing
and/or envisaged, although they are not expected to include rural savings mobilization and credit
components, are likely to have an impact on the development of specific areas that would be favorable
to the creation and/or promotion of rural CREPs.
G.    Lessons Learned
2.39         Because the project would be the first to be financed by IDA in the rural financial
intermediation arena in Cote d'Ivoire, preparation efforts capitalized on experiences gained in other
countries (Benin, Burkina Faso, Rwanda, etc.) which have implemented similar operations. IDA also
learned from experiences of the pilot CREP operation. In particular, the need to build up the
Network from the grassroots, rather than favoring the promotion of development banks funded
through external lines of credit and/or government resources, was stressed during project preparation.
Other significant lessons incorporated into the project design include measures to give the CREP
network full autonomy over its management and in the implementation of its activities regarding
staffing, credit policy, and anticipated growth targets as past government interference and
inappropriate monitoring prevented the movement to reach its full potential. Furthermore, important
safeguards and measures to re-launch the movement on a sound footing have been introduced during
project preparation (revised statutes and by-laws, new credit and personnel policies and a well-



- 12 -
defined Statement of Operational Policies of the Network to be adopted by ANAC-CI prior to project
start). In particular, the Credit Policy, highlighted in the "Manuel de Credit' prepared by the
Network, has been overhauled to ensure that: (a) credit is granted only when it is economically or
socially justified; (b) loans are made for specific purposes; (c) credit is granted only when members
savings are adequate; and (d) prudential ratios are respected and monitoring of all loan repayment is
made systematically. Still, it is also recognized that, for some time to come, important resources and
efforts would have to be directed towards training and sensitization of members. During the project
period, close supervision of financial management by CREP managers and administrative entities
would be frequent. Adherence to strict guidelines and internal procedures would also be monitored.
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Rationale. Objectives and Description
3.01         Rationale. Besides large scale agricultural operations financed through the crop-based
("filibre") approach by development agencies and/or large parastatals (i.e. CIDT, SODEPRA, SAPH),
there are important financial needs in the rural sector that can only be fulfilled by a decentralized
network of financial institutions. Such a network can collect savings mobilized locally with a view to
financing low-cost agricultural activities and providing readily available credit to rural dwellers to
help them fulfill some of their basic financial needs (small equipment, school fees and supplies, social
expenses, etc.). The Government has therefore decided to make the promotion of a revitalized CREP
movement one of the main thrusts of its strategy to foster growth in rural areas. To this effect,
savings frozen as part of BNDA liquidation have been fully refunded to the CREP/COOPEC network
and the Government has launched a long-term effort to: (a) provide the movement with an enabling
regulatory and institutional environment; (b) clearly define its organizational structure and operational
policies; (c) carry out its financial restructuring; and (d) provide the necessary assistance and
safeguards until the movement is well on its way to managerial and financial autonomy. The main
underpinnings of the Government's strategy are clearly spelled out in a Letter of Sector Policy (LSP)
dated November 18 1993, which is acceptable to IDA (Annex 3). The project is fully consistent with
the Operational Directive 8.30 on Financial Sector Operations. In particular, it takes into account the
country's incentives framework and macro-economic environment, financial sector policies were
evaluated, and the legal and regulatory framework of CREPs was reviewed and, where appropriate,
strengthened. Furthermore, safeguards have been introduced (para. 2.39) to: (a) ensure market
determination of interest rates; (b) restore public confidence in the Netwonk; (c) prevent imprudent or
fraudulent behavior by CREP managers and members; and (d) assure sound management of the
Network through improved credit and financial policies, simple but efficient accounting and
administrative practices and staff training.
3.02         As a complement to the Financial Sector Adjustment Program being supported by the
Bank (para. 2.21), the proposed proiect would focus primarily on the institutional strengthening of
rural financial intermediaries. It would help establish a privately-owned rural financial intermediation
system which would fill the void created by the reluctance of commercial banks to operate in rural
areas and the recent liquidation of BNDA. ITe existence of such a financial instrument is essential to
long-term economic growth, not only in rural areas but also at national level, through a recycling of
grassroots savings for productive purposes throughout the economy.



- 13 -
3.03         Obiectives. The project would help revitalize the CREP/COOPEC movement by
rehabilitating existing CREPs and assisting in the creation of new ones, where justified. To this end,
it would capitalize on results achieved during the pilot operation by: (a) establishing a satisfactory
institutional structure for the movement and completing its financial restructuring through rigorous
loan recovery and systematic closing of non-viable CREPs; (b) providing technical assistance and
training to the CREP members and managers in accounting and basic financial management to ensure
satisfactory management of individual CREPs; and (c) funding awareness campaigns to restore
populations confidence, stress the private nature of the Network and its total independence from both
the Government and the now-defunct BNDA, and get members to fully internalize the principles of
the mutualistic movement and have a strong sense of ownership of the Network. In order to ensure
long-term sustainability and financial independence of the movement, one of the project's main thrusts
would be to focus on rural savings mobilization.
3.04         Project Description. The project would consist of the following components:
(a)   rehabilitation and development of Local CREPs. Detailed audit and financial
restructuring of the 70 existing CREPs, improvement of their accounting system and
training of members and managers. Establishment of new CREPs nation-wide on the
basis of local market surveys and awareness campaigns (preliminary estimates indicate
that between 70 to 75 CREPs could be created). The project would finance CREPs'
financial restructuring, equipment and operating costs;
fb)     ort to Regional Service Units fRSUs). Support to six Regional Service Units
(Korhogo, Gagnoa, Bouake, Man, Abidjan-Est, Abidjan-Ouest) which would provide
timely supervision and support to local CREPs in their geographical aiea; and
(c)   support to the Central Management Unit (CMU). The project would support the
establishment of the CMU, on the basis of the unit already operating with CICM
support, to provide the Network with policy and operational guidelines, manage
CREPs excess liquidity and supervise their and RSUs' activities. The project would
finance the necessary technical assistance to the CMU and its investments and
operating costs.
B.    Detailed Features
3.05         The project would be carried out over the 1994-1999 period. It would be the first
phase of a long-term rehabilitation program and would be developed along the following principles:
(a)    establishment of a network of a private nature controlled by its members and free
from government interference in its operational policies and management (in
particular, the freedom of setting interest rates on deposits or loans within the limits
of usury law). The rate of 22%, expected to be charged for loans under the project is
a reasonable proxy of a market clearing rate for most credit purposes in the rural
sector. All operational policies concerning lending activities would be clearly spelled
out in a Statement of Operational Policies (SOP). Formal adoption of the SOP by
ANAC-CI would be a condition of effectiveness (para 7.02 (a));



- 14 -
(b)   priority would be given to deposit mobilization with only limited lending activity in
the short-to-medium term, under strictly defined guidelines, funded by members
deposits and not by external lines of credit;
(c)   setting up of a three-tiered organizational structure, with (i) autonomous operational
units at local level (CREPs) undertaking deposit mobilization and lending activities;
(ii) regional service units (RSUs) at regional level providing training and technical
backstopping to CREPs, and also responsible for the promotion of the movement in
their region; and (iii) a Central Management Unit (CMU) at national level responsible
for the supervision of CREPs activities and the centralized management of their excess
liquidity, with the Board of Directors of ANAC-CI as the movement's policy-making
body; and
(d)   outside supervision would be carried-out through (i) external annual audits, and (ii) a
Project Monitoring Committee, chaired by the Ministry of Finance with representation
from other ministries and BCEAO.
Project components are described below, and more details are given in the project preparation report
and associated working papers.
1.    Rehabilitation and Develoment of local CREPs
3.06         Activities envisaged under this component would capitalize on work already
undertaken during the pilot phase. All CREPs identified during the pilot phase as non-viable have
been closed. All remaining CREPs would be audited, and, on the basis of these audits and after
rnegotiations with each CREP's management, a timetable for its financial restructuring would be
agreed on. This restructuring plan would mainly consist of: (a) establishing criteria and a timetable
for a loan recovery drive specific to each rural CREP; (b) defining a set of parameters specific to
each rural CREP in the area of membership development, credit and savings policies (ratios, credit
duration, fees, interest) and training; and (c) agreeing on a set of performance indicators which would
be used to evaluate the need for the creation of new CREPs and the progress of existing ones during
the project and beyond.
3.07         Day-to-day management of the rural CREPs would be done through three simple
internal entities: (a) a Board of Directors (Conseil d'Administration) comprising five to seven
members elected democratically by the membership; (b) a Credit Committee (Comite de Credit)
comprising three to five members, in charge of implementing the credit policy and ensuring
creditworthiness of applicants; and (c) a Surveillance Committee (Comite de Surveillance) comprising
three members, in charge of ensuring financial discipline. These bodies would function in accordance
with the guidelines and rules established by ANAC-CI, the revised by-laws and the Statement of
Operational Policies.
3.08         The project would finance the training of members, institutional and management
support, awareness campaigns, and logistical and infrastructural support. In particular, the project
would finance the construction and/or rehabilitation of offices for about 40 CREPs. It would also
finance office equipment and supplies for financial transactions. A number of training sessions and
information seminars on management, accounting procedures would also be financed under this
component. Finally, provisions would be made under the CFD loan to cover restructuring costs and



- 15 -
operating deficits in order to speed up the financial viability of CREPs for which satisfactory steps are
being taken to improve financial discipline and loan recovery, and develop membership.
2.    Support to Regional Service Units
3.09         The project would support the development of Regional Service Units (RStJs) to
provide timely supervision and support to CREPs in their immediate geographic area. In particular,
the RSUs would assist in the creation of new CREPs, provide training to members, ensure that all
prudential ratios are met, see that the loan portfolio is in good standing, and, during the restructuring
phase and beyond, make sure that the required efforts at loan recovery are made. The six regions
cnvisL,ged under the project are: Korhogo, Gagnoa, Bouake, Man, Abidjan-Est and Abidjan-Ouest.
SDID anid CICM would each provide assistance to three of the six regions (SDID in Man, Bouake,
and Abidjan-Est; CICM in Korhogo, Gagnoa and Abidjan-Ouest).
3.10         Each regional service unit would have a small team of specialists in charge of: (a)
identifying training needs for both CREP managers and members, and implementing training
programs accordingly; (b) assisting in the definition of procedures; (c) organizing awareness
campaigns at the regional level and undertaking socio-economic analysis that would serve as the basis
for installing new CREPS; and (d) providing support to local CREPs in accounting practices and
internal control. This team would consist of one CICM or SDID specialist, two regional promoters,
two controllers, and a small support staff. A senior counterpart staff would be selected in each
region, trained by the internationally-recruited staff, and take over the management of the regional
unit in project year 3.
3.11         Under this component, the project would finance vehicles, office space and
equipment, seminars and workshops, long and short term technical assistance, and operating
expenses. All activities envisaged under the component are aimed at institution building. They would
strengthen local CREPs through training, technical back-up and monitoring organized at the regional
level, and, in time, improve their capacity to become self-supporting.
3.    Support to the Central Management Unit
3.12         Inspection, financial, institutional and managerial support, as well as assistance for
supervision, would be provided to the Network from a central unit (para 7.01 (a)) with the assistance
of CICM and SDID-the two firms chosen by the Government to promote the development of the
Network through a joint approach. The Central Management Unit would be entrusted with daily
project management and have exclusive responsibility to: (a) define the operational policies of the
Network; (b) supervise and inspect the CREPs and RSUs; (c) pool and manage the liquidity of
individual CREPs; (d) approve the closing and opening of CREPs on the basis of socio-economic
studies and financial monitoring; (e) implement publicity and awareness campaigns at the national
level; and (f) collect and centralize data on the Network's development.
3.13         The Central Management Unit would be headed by a CICM credit specialist assisted
by a SDID training specialist and a high level national specialist of credit activities. The Government
would have no involvement in project management other than through the Project Monitoring
Committee (Comite de Suivi). All project staff would be hired on a contractual basis and be
gradually taken over by the Network.



- 16-
3.14         The project would finance technical assistance (Project Director, Training Specialist)
and two Junior Specialists (French Volunteers) in charge of setting up a computerized accounting
system. Provisions have also been made under this component for technical support missions,
external training, workshops and annual financial audits. The project would also finance some
vehicles, office space and equipment, as well as the CMU's operating costs on a decreasing basis.
All long-term technical assistance would be financed by CFD, FAC and CIDA. The recruitment of
all technical assistance staff and key project personnel on terms of reference (Annex 4) and conditions
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness (para 7.02 (b)).
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT.
DISBURSEMENT. ACCOUNTS. AUDITS, AND REPORTINC(j
A.    Uroject Costs
4.01         The total cost of the proposed project over 1994-99 period, including all incremental
capital and recurrent expenditures, is estimated at CFAF 9.5 billion (US$15.8 million), of which
CFAF 6.5 billion (US$11 million) or 69.2 percent of total costs in foreign exchange, and about
CFAF 450 million (US$0.8 million) or five percent in taxes and duties.
4.02         Base costs have been estimated at January 1994 prices using the rate of exchange of
CFAF 605 prevailing at that date. Physical contingencies have been allowed on investment and
operating cost items except for technical assistance and staff salaries. The average physical
contingency amounts to two percent of base costs, with individual rates ranging from zero to five
percent. Price contingencies have been applied ti base costs over an estimated implementation period
of five years (1994-1999). Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs based on Bank's projections
of international price increases have been included at an average rate of 3.2 percent per annum over
1994-1999. Price contingencies on local costs have been revised to take into account the recent
devaluation of the CFAF and expected inflation rates over the next five years. Total price
contingencies amount to 8.6% of base costs.
4.03         Project costs (including taxes and duties) are summarized below and detailed estimates
for each component are given in Annex 5 and Working Paper No.2.



- 17 -
Project Cost Summary*
X Total
--------.-------------.     -----------------------        % Foreign   Base
Local  foreign    Total      Local   Foreign   Total       Exchange   Costs
-----(CFAF million)-----      -----(US$ million)-----
A. Rehab. of local CREPs            598.2    440.8   1039.0         1.2     0.5       1.7        42.4       12.1
B. RegionaL Service Units          1258.0   2469.9   3728.0         2.2     3.9      6.1         66.3      43.2
C. Central Management Unit          757.5   3096.6   3854.0         1.4     5.0      6.4         80.3      44.7
Total BASELINE COSTS               2613.7   6007.3   8621.0        4.9      9.4     14.3         65.1     100.0
Physical Contingencies            70.8    133.2    204.0        0.1      0.2      0.3         65.3       2.4
Price Contingencies              249.8    454.6    704.5         -.2     1.4      1.2        120.2       8.2
Total PROJECTS COSTS               2934.3   6595.1   9529.5         4.8    11.0     15.8         69.2     110.5
* Figures may not add up due to rounding and adjustment after devaluation of the CFAF.
B.      Project Financing
4.04             The project would be financed as follows.
Project Financing Plan
Local      Foreign       Total            Percentage (X)
-U--- US million)--------          With taxes   Without taxes
IDA                    1.2         1.0         2.2           14             i5
CFD                    1.5         5.0          6.5          41             43
FAC                      -         2.0         2.0           12             13
CIDA                   0.5         3.0          3.5          22             23
CREPs                  0.8           -          0.8           5              6
Government*            0.8                      0.8           6
Total           4.8         11.0        15.8          lO-G.          100%
* Taxes only
4.05             In accordance with IDA guidJines on Local Cost Financing and Cost Sharing (OD
6.30, para 5), this project, an operation in support of financial intermediaries, is not subject to Bank
cost-sharing limits. However, the financing plan has been devised to ensure satisfactory contribution
from the Network without compromising, in the early stages, its chances for a successful financial
rehabilitation and subsequent viability. The CREP network's estimated financial contribution of
CFAF 450 million, over five years, was based on realistic growth prospects. Because the Network is
of a private nature, and to become, in time, financially autonomous, the Government's involvement in
the project has been limited to the financing of taxes and duties. To this end, the Government would,
on behalf of the Network, open a project account to channel its contribution (meant to finance taxes
only). The opening of such account and evidence of an initial deposit of CFAF 100 million would be
a condition of effectiveness (para 7.02 (c)).
4.06             The proposed credit of US$2.2 million equivalent would finance about 15 percent of
project costs (net of taxes). IDA funds would cover expenditures related to part of civil works
expenditures, vehicles and equipment (mainly computers), short-term consultancies for management



- 18 -
support and audits, training activities and part of RSUs' and CMU's development costs. CFD
financing would cover CREPs' past operating losses, part of the long-term Technical Assistance
(CICM), vehicles and equipment, and operating costs. FAC would mainly finance two long-term
expatriate positions at the CMU and at the RSUs. CIDA would finance three long-term resident
experts to be posted in the RSUs and one at the CMU, part of operating costs and management
support. The Government's contribution to the project would cover 100 percent of taxes and duties.
The Network is expected to cover its operating costs only in the long term. Its own financial
contribution to the operating costs of the RSUs and CMU over the first five years would however be
significant: about CFAF 450 million (US$0.8 million), or 20% of the total operating costs of
RSU/CMU (excluding technical assistance). IDA funds would be passed on from the Government to
ANAC-CI on behalf of the Network on standard IDA terms. Foreign exchange risks would be borne
by the Network. The signing of the subsidiary credit agreement between the Government and
ANAC-CI required to this effect would be a condition of effectiveness (para 7.02 (d)). CFD, FAC
and CIDA financing have been approved. The effectiveness of the CFD loan, the FAC and CIDA
grants would be a condition of effectiveness for the IDA Credit (para 7.02 (e)). A detailed financing
plan is available in working paper No.2.
C.    Procurement
4.07         The proposed procurement arrangements are detailed in table following para 4.13 and
in Annex 6. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Network would respect these
arrangements and apply procurement procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines and that
progress reports would include monitoring of the various aggregate amounts and ceilings. The
Central Management Unit will be the executing agency responsible for carrying out project activities,
including all procurement activities.
4.08         Civil works for the construction and/or rehabilitation of office buildings at the
regional and central levels are too small and too scattered geographically to attract bidders under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for these works, each not exceeding US$40,000
equivalent, will therefore be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. These
procedures have been reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank. There are enough contra tors in
CMte d'Ivoire to provide for adequate competition. Foreign contractors would be eligible to bid.
Total Bank financing under LCB for the civil works contracts is estimated at the equivalent of
US$160,000.
4.09         Contracts for vehicles and equipment, to the extent possible, would be grouped into
lots of sufficient size to allow for competitive bidding. Those in excess of US$200,000 will be
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB). LCB, using procedures acceptable
to the Bank, will be used for precurement involving contracts of less than US$200,000 but greater
than US$50,000, up to a total of US$200,000 over the life of the project. Procurement of contracts
for small items of equipment under US$50,000, up to a total of US$200,000, that cannot be grouped
under the above procedures, would be made under local shopping procedures (minimum three
quotations).
4.10         Service contracts for the provision of long-term technical assistance for mutualistic
credit management would be financed by the cofinanciers (CFD, CIDA) and procured under their
own procurement procedures. Consultants and technical assistance personnel financed by the Bank



- 19 -
will be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. Studies, training and audits are included in that
category.
4.11         Incremental operating costs, including costs related to staff travel, vehicle operation
and maintenance, office equipment and supplies, given their nature, would not be subject to
competitive bidding. However, strict budgetary and expenditure control would be applied. The use
of project vehicles would be recorded on logbooks ("Carnets de bord'). All expenses under this
category would be fully investigated during audits and IDA supervision missions.
4.12         Local Competitive Bidding would include local advertising, eligibility of foreign
bidders, public opening of bids and award to the lowest bidder. A n- nnmum of four bids will be
required. Procurement procedures for IDA-financed works and goods contracts and bidding packages
estimated to cost over US$100,000, as well as technical assistance, wouled be subject to prior review
by IDA as would the award of the contract. Works, goods, and services for contracts below
US$100,000 and above US$20,000 would be subject to ex-post review in accordance with paragraphs
three and four of Annex 1 of the Guidelines. Random ex-post review for goods, works, and services
contracts below US$20,000 would be made by Bank staff on supervision missions and during annual
audits and based on certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
4.13         Procurement information would be collected and included in the semi-annual progress
reports to be prepared by the project management so as to update cost estimates and timing of
procurement actions. In particular, various aggregate amounts and ceilings would be monitored.
Prompt reporting of contract award information would also be realized and a Project Completion
Report (PCR) would be prepared within six months of the Credit closing date. Submission to IDA of
finalized Standard Bidding Documents found acceptable by IDA to be used for IDA-financed goods
would be a condition of effectiveness (para 7.02 (f)).



- 20 -
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
------------ Procurement Methods -------------------------
Project Element                          ICS            LCB           Other           N.I.F              TotaL
1. Works
1.1 Buildings                                       0.16                          0.33Wy               0.50
(0.16)                                            (0.16)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehicles/Equipment              0.4              0.2           0.20             2.0ty              2.8
(0.4)            (0.2)         (0.20)                             (0.8)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Technical Assistance (LT)                                                       5.109/             5.10
3.2 Audits/Management Support          -               -            0.5 /           0.68               1.18
(0.5)                              (0.50)
3.3 Training                           -                            0.34            1.10               1.44
(0.34)                             (0.34)
4. Hiscellaneous
4.1 Operating Costs                                                 0.40            4.04e/             4.44
(0.40)                             (0.40)
4.2 Past losses                                                                      0.30f/            0.30
Total                             0.4              0.36          1.44             13.55              15.80
(0.4)            (0.36)        (1.44)                              (2.20)
Note:   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
N.l.F: Not IDA-financed.
pj To be financed by CFD under their own procurement arrangements
k/ To be financed by CFD and CIDA urnder their own procurement arrangements
Cl Includes CFD, FAC and CIDA under their own procuremer.t arrangements
l Consultancies for audits and management support would be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines
W/ Includes Government, the Network, CFD and CIDA under their own procurement arrangements
f/ To be financed by CFD under their own procedures



- 21 -
D.    Disbursements
4.14          The proposed credit would be disbursed over a period of six years (Annex 7).
DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Amount          X of Expend.
Atlocated            to be
Categories                              US$ million          Financed /
1. Civil Works                                0.16               100X
2. Vehicles and Equipment                     0.70               100t FE; 80X LE
3. Consultancies
a) Audits/Management Support              0.40                1002.
b) Training                               0.34                100%
4. Operating Costs                            0.40             Declining basis §
S. Unallocated                                0.20
TotaL                                   2.20
Al of amount net of taxes; FE: Foreign Expenditures; LE: Local Expenditures
k/ IDA financing of operating costs for eligible expenditures will start at 55% until 12/31/96.  IDA
financing of operating costs for eligible expenditures will continue at the level of 30% from 1/1/97 only if
an institutional framework satisfactory to IDA has been put in pLace for the Network (Condition of
Disbursement; para 7.03).
4.15          To facilitate project execution, a Special Account equivalent to US$300,000
representing about 4 months of expenditures would be opened in the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAA). The terms and conditions for operating this account were agreed during
negotiations. This account would be replenished by IDA against documented expenditures and upon
receipt of withdrawal applications. Disbursements would be fully documented except for contracts
and expenditures valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent, in which case statements of expenditure
(SOEs) would be used. Documentation would be held for review by IDA supervision missions and
verification by external auditors. IDA would not honor direct payment requests below US$20,000
equivalent.
E.    Financial Management. Accounts. Audits and Reporting
4.16          The Central Management Unit would be responsible for overall fimancial management
of the project. It would also maintain accounts, prepare disbursement applications, and manage
project funding for all components.
4.17          In order to accelerate financial viability of the Network, operating costs at local, RSU
and CMU levels would be closely monitored. Detailed budgets of local CREPs, RSUs and CMU
would be approved by ANAC-CI and submitted to IDA for final approval prior to the beginning of
each implementation year (para 7.01 (c)). The project accounts would classify expenditures by
component for budgetary and management control purposes. There would be tight physical control of
vehicles and equipment. Project accounts would be audited according to international standards
acceptable to IDA. The auditors would be required to express an opinion on the reliability of SOE
procedures, the legitimacy of expenditures made out of the Special Account, the utilization of goods
and services financed under the Credit, and the standards for record keeping and internal controls.
The audited accounts and reports would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of



- 22 -
the financial year (December 31). Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (para
7.01 (b)).
4.18         Managing bodies at the CREPs level (Conseil d'Administration, Comite de Crddit,
Comite de Surveillance) would be responsible for monitoring project implementation, including
physical, institutional and financial objectives. They would be assisted in these tasks by the Regional
Service Units. With assistance from the Central Management Unit, each Regional Service Unit would
prepare semi-annual progress reports assessing progress (physical, institutional, budgetary) against
agreed annual programs of operations and targets.
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Implementation Arrangements
5.01         The Government of Cote d'Ivoire through its Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Planning would be responsible for ensuring that the project is carried out in accordance with the
Development Credit Agreement. Until the setting up of a regulatory framework by BCEAO, CREPs
and COOPECs would continue to operate under the current legislative framework (the 1977
Cooperative law). They would retain their current statutes but their by-laws would be modified to
introduce greater transparency and accountability in management. Overall project management and
implementation (Ane 8 would be carried out by the Central Management Unit in accordance with
principles established by ANAC-CI. However, until the Mid-Term Review, when the permanent
institutional set-up of the Network is decided, ANAC-CI's Board of Directors (the former National
Committee of CREP Presidents) would essentially have an advisory role and not a full involvement in
day-to-day activities carried out under the project. This prudent approach has been chosen to: (a)
avoid the creation of a complex federative structure from the start; (b) give the Network and its
members time to reflect on its desired future structure; and (c) allow the CMU, supported by
expatriate management, to carry out the much needed but painful initial 'clean-up" (closure of non-
viable CREPs) and do away with past management practices. In the meantime, the CMU and ANAC-
CI would be required to launch a detailed study on the various options for the Network's future
institutional structure and submit its recommendations to IDA before the Mid-Term Review. In the
event of a disagreement between ANAC-CI and the CMU, the Project Monitoring Committee would
be called upon to give its advice.
5.02         The CMU would, in time, evolve into the Technical Secretariat of the National
Federation. This Unit would oversee activities undertaken by Regional Service Units which would
have responsibility for specific training programs, credit policies and savings mobilization efforts at
local level. The CMU would be responsible for determining, in agreement with ANAC-CI, the
closing and opening of CREPs, implementing training programs, publicity and awareness campaigns
at the national level, collecting and centralizing data and statistics on parameters reflecting the
Network's development, and managing the project's human, physical and financial resources. It
would also be responsible for the management of excess liquidity, ensuring that prudential ratios are
met and undertaking financial and administrative inspection of all CREPs. Formal establishment of
both the CMU and RSUs with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of
effectiveness (para 7.02 (g)).



- 23 -
5.03         Implementation and management at the local CREP level would be done through three
separate bodies: (a) a Board of Directors (Conseil d'Administration) comprising five to seven
members and elected by the membership; (b) a Credit Committee (Comite de Credit) comprising three
to five members in charge of implementing the credit policy and assessing creditworthiness of
applicants; and (c) a Surveillance Committee (Comite de Surveillance) comprising three members, in
charge of financial control. These bodies would function in accordance with the guidelines and rules
established by ANAC-CI, revised by-laws and statutes and the Statement of Operational Policies
(SOP). In each CREP, a manager (gerant) would be responsible for day-to-day management of the
CREP. He/She would be identified by the local CREP Board of Directors and selected after an
assessment of his/her skills level and references by the Regional Service Unit. Finally, the Project
Monitoring Committee headed by the Ministry of Finance - including of representatives of BCEAO,
the Network and concerned ministries - would be established. Formal establishment of this
committee would be a condition of effectiveness (para 7.02 (h)).
B.    Annual Work Programs
5.04         Annual work programs would be prepared by the CMU in conjunction with the RSUs
and based on targets and objectives set out by ANAC-CI. The work programs would include: (a)
progress to date; (b) the work program of each regional service unit for the coming year; (c)
timetable for the opening and/or closing of CREPs; and (d) the preparation of appropriate budgets.
The work programs would be fine-tuned during IDA supervision missions. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that draft work programs would be submitted to IDA for comments and approval
before Jur.e 30 of each year. After taking into account IDA's comments, the Central Management
Unit would submit the revised work program to IDA for final review and approval by September 30
of each year (para 7.01 (c)). With regard to training activities, submission to IDA of a detailed
training program (Annex 9) for the first year, and an outline for subsequent years would be a
condition of disbursement against training activities (para 7.04).
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation
5.05         The CMU would have primary responsibility for overall monitoring and evaluation of
the project. This unit would be supervised by ANAC-CI and twice a year by the Project Monitoring
Committee. This monitoring unit would be the primary vehicle through which the Government would
have effective oversight on project activities. IDA would also undertake two full supervision missions
each project year (Annex 10.
5.06         Mid-Term Review. A Mid-Term Review would be undertaken at the end of PY3
(1996) to confirm or improve the orientations of project activities. In this regard, a number of key
performance indicators to be assessed were agreed on at negotiations. The review would cover, inter
alia: (a) progress in the development of the Network including its institutional set-up; (b) evaluation
of the consultants' performance; and (c) overall project performance against key performance
indicators (Annex 1IL



- 24 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits
6.01         The project would support the Government's efforts to develop an efficient, low cost,
grassroots financial intermediation system responding to rural populations' needs that the formal
banking system would be unable or unwilling to service even in the medium to long-term. An
efficient CREP/COOPEC network would provide rural dwellers with much needed deposit
safekeeping services and with access to short and medium-term fmancing of productive and social
expenses, thereby improving rural incomes and living conditions. It would also help mobilize and
recycle rural savings for productive purposes throughout the economy.
B.    Risks
6.02         The main risk of the project lies in the fragility of the existing network. In fact,
many rural dwellers have been reluctant to join the CREP movement in part due to misinformation or
the perception that the movement was an arm of the Government or belonged to few village elders.
To reduce this risk, considerable efforts would be deployed in the area of sensitization, awareness
Campaigns, and training. The withdrawal of the Government from the supervision and management
of the Network would also reduce this risk. Another risk concerns the low level of familiarity by
current CREP managers and administrative bodies with sound financial practices. This risk would be
minimized through training and close supervision from both the central and regional management
units and clearly spelled-out operational policies and procedures. A final risk concerns the specificity
of the CREP membership which in the past consisted mostly of farmers, and, therefore, made the
Network vulnerable to the cyclical pressures (infrastructural, marketing and financial) often found in
the agricultural sector. To minimize this risk, the resource base of CREPs would be enlarged by
actively seeking membership from a large variety of rural dwellers (civil servants, traders, craftsmen,
etc.) to reduce the variability of deposits associated with agricultural incomes.
VII. ASSURANCES. CONDMTIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01   Assurances obtained during negotiations
(a)    Responsibility for daily project management would be entrusted to the Central Management
Unit (para 3.12);
(b)   audited accounts and the audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
end of each fiscal year (para 4.17);
(c)    detailed programs of operations and budgets would be submitted annually to IDA for review
and approval (paras. 4.17, 5.04); and
(d)    a Mid-Term Review would be undertaken by December 31, 1996 (para 5.06).



-25 -
7.02   Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)    Statement of Operational Policies (SOP) by ANAC-CI has been received and found acceptable
by the Association (para 3.05);
(b)   recruitment of all technical assistance staff and key project personnel on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.14);
(c)    opening of a project account by the Government and evidence of initial deposit of CFAF 100
million (para 4.05);
(d)   signing of a Subsidiary Credit Agreement acceptable to IDA between the Government and
ANAC-CI for relending IDA funds to the Network on standard IDA terms (para 4.06);
(e)   effectiveness of the CFD loan and the FAC and CIDA grants (para 4.06)
(t)   submission of Standard Bidding Documents found acceptable by IDA to be used for IDA-
financed goods (para 4.13);
(g)   formal establishment of CMUI and RSUs with responsibilities acceptable to IDA (para 5.02);
and
(h)    establishment of the Project Monitoring Committee (para 5.03).
7.03   Condition of Disbursement against OIerating Costs as of 01/01/1997. Institutional and
organizational structure for the Network acceptable to IDA (para 4.14).
7.04   Condition of Disbursement against Training Activities. Submission to IDA of a document
presenting the main orientation of the training program to be carried out during the project,
and the detailed training program for the first year (para 5.04).
7.05   Recommendation. With the above agreements, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 1.5 million equivalent to the Republic of C6te d'Ivoire on standard IDA terms, with 40
years maturity.



Annex I
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
Ministry of Finance
Monitoring         Ministry of Agriculture
ANAC-CI               Committee          The CREP Network
BCEAO
Central
Management
Unit
Regional              Regional                Regional               Regional             Regional               Regional
Service Unit          Service Unit           Service Unit           Service Unit          Service Unit           Service Unit
(Man)                (Bouake)             (Abidjan-Est)           (Gagnoa)           (Abidjan-Ouest)          (Korhogo)
Board of Directors (5 to 7 members)
Local CREP            Credit Committee (3 to 5 members)
-   Surveillance Committee (3 members)



Annex 2
Page I o( 9
REPtULIC OF COTE DIVOIRE
RL'RAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROJECTED PROFITABILITY
I December 1995       19931         1994!    _199Si            19961        19 7i         1998'i       199
A-NR of viabl caisses   i             70           791          101          1241          134          142           1421        Idem
Abidjan Est               91          12 'l 7                    221          22            22            22
Abidija Ouest |          151          iS,           18           22!          24            26            26
Bouake                   151          15,           18           21f          231           23           23
Gagnoa       o           171          171           21           241          271           29           29
Korhogo      i                        12            1'a                       21            23           23
Man          1           6             a521                      l71           171          19            19|
8- NR of members                  202001        27386         42204        65699        88418        102676       1 12581       114850
Abidjan Eat           5501          6659         9352         14092        17562         18851        20020         20420
Abidpn Ouest           3450         3946          6907        11662        16256         19397        21575         22006
Bouak6                2791          4430         7030         10048        14628         16740         1S432        18801
Gagnoa                4740          5140         7900         11748        16248         19200        21252         21677
Korhogo               2494          4776         6970         10255        1419S         16669        18048         18409
Man                   1224          2435          4045         7293         9528         11820         13272        13s57
(FCFAo0oo)
C - Membews equity                     0        82158        126612       218805       318306        36362        405354        344551
Abidjan Est                        19977        28056         46504        63223         67J63        72071         61260
Abidjan Ouest                       1 t8a8      20721         384s5        58523         69828         776W         68019
Bouak6                             13290        21090         3513a        52661         60264        66355         56402
Gagnoa                     j       15420        23700         387681       58493         69120        76507         6503l
Korhogo                            14328        20910         338421       51106         60005        64973         55227
Man                                 7305         12135        240671       34301         42552        47779         40612
D - Savings                      584681       1071149      17779m3      2885247       4134196      4979409       5698550      8553333
Abidjan Est         264567        449283       637893        965283      1293027       1453051      1616029       1858433
Abidjan Ouest         88105       162294        323419 s      85182       878s9 0      1109553      1303349       1491851
Bouak6               73074        142723       260267        421619       622950        751820       872902       1003B38
Gagnoa               6S701        141899       250300        399100       593989        737587       860404        989465
Korhogo              61815        110821        187932       297441       442168       s55384        618011        708413
Man                  28419         64129       118142        216821       303151        376744       429858        494334
E - Outstanding loans            227131        116938       321345        711181      1442623       2067096      2489705       2849275
Abidjan Est         143324         52913        134785       255157       482642         46t514      726526        808014
Abidjan Ouest        36481         17621        48688        129368       292591        439455       554926        651874
Bouak6               16213         14615        42817        104107       210810        311475       375910        436451
Gagnoa               20753         13740        42570        1001201      199530        296995       368778        430202
Korhogo               8690         12363        33246         751731      148720        221084       275192        308006
Man                   1670          6684        19239         47257       l0831o        151R57       188372        214928
F - Total deposits In banks      2960s1        919963      1391371      2081323i   2570494          2756162      3013902       3359343
Abidjan Est          9383s        367704       462701        6535011      736883        721804       791971        916577
Abidjan Ouest        42385        138879       260479        4314241      551382        622948        88799s       755877
Bouake               49058        125854       2103s8        307384!      398481        421173       471297        518171
Gagnoa               40867        128095       204335        2948601      389597        431567       477272        520094
Korhogo              40474        100687        155234       2241031      297333        330924       340749        380945
Man                  2366S         58744        98232        1700511      198838        227746       243814        287879
RCI-CREP 1111589



Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
REPULIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROJECTED PROFITABILITY
2000         2001         2002         2003          2004         2005         2006          2007
A - NR of viable caisses           Idem         adem         Idorn        Idem          Idem         Idem          Idem         Idem
Abidjan Est
Abidjan Ouest
Bouake
Gagnoa
Korhogo
Man
B - NR of membefs               117147        119490       121860       124318        126604       129340       131027        134566
Abidjan Et           20828        21245        21670        22103         22545        22006        23458         23925
AbidF  Ouest         22448        22896        23353        23820         24297        24783        25278         25784
_ouabe               19177        19560        19951        20350         20757        21173        21595         22028
Gagnoa               22111        22553        23004        23464         2303         24412        24900         25398
Koogo                i8777        19153        19535        19928         20325        20731        21146         215W
Man                  13808        14084        14366        14653         14906        15246        15550         1Sabi
(FCFAOOo)
C - Membes' equity              351442        358471       865640       372063       380412        384021       306781       403607
Abidjan Est          62485        63735        65010        66310         876e3        68980        70368         71776
Abidjan Ouest        67339        6868         70060        71401         72890        74348         7835         773s52
Bouak                575M3        58681        59854        61051         62272       68351         64788         6084
Gaaoao               66           67658        69012        70392         71800        73238        74700         76104
Korhogo              s6331        57458        58607        59779         60975        62194        63438         64707
Man                  41425        42253        43090        43980         4483s        40736        46651         47584
0 - Savings                    7S3633S    s867s83         0066eoo    11461820    13181004    1s5s8258    17431006    20046796
Abidjan Est        2137198      24s7778      2826444      3250411       3737972      4298668      4943489       6684089
Abidjan Oueot      1723579      1082231      227se65      2621500       3014725      34660934     3985974       4585020
8ouake             1154414      1327576      1526712      17s5719       2010076      2321938      2670229       3070763
Gagnoa             1137884      1308567      1504352      1730580       1900167      228s862      2631905       3028795
Koftiogo            814675       936876      1077407      1239018       1424871      168862       1S84392       2167051
Man                 568484       653757       751820       864593        004282      1143424      1314938       1512179
E - Outstanding loans          327e667      3766167       4333801      4063400      5730010      6590s 47      7579120      8715908
Abidjon Est         020216      106e850      1228889      1413222       162s205      1868086      2140334       2471734
Abidjan Ouest       740426       861830       001115      1130783       1310750      1507363      1733467       1900887
Souaok              501190       677207       63768        763386        8778509     1oo005       116006        1335114
Gagnoa              4s4732      s56842        654283       752428        8852s0       905083      1144346       1315s08
Korhogo             354206       407337       468438       538704        619060       712435       819301        942196
Man                 247167       284242       326878       37s59O        432297       497141       571712        657469
F - Total deposits in banks    3st1801      4846505       4052346      564s140      6447361      7365806       8420304      96a2516
Abidjan Et         1046170      1195064      1366121      1562873       1788540      2048116      2346454       2089366
Abidpan Ouest       880S32       980946      1119248      1278118       1460630      1670354      1911338       2188279
'ouake              588637       6652s        762400       869064       S91586       1132286      1203955       1479710
Gagnoa              580738       669052       761404       8e6733        987683      1126505      12860159      140469
Kortiogo           430979        485376       554237       829030        716611       816256       930689       1082128
Man                302834        342028       38320        441722        502323       571900       651700        743565
RaCI-CREP 11/15193



Annex 2
Pagc 3 of 9
REPULIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVI.NGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION A.ND PROMNOTION PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROJECTED PROFITABILITY
2008         2009         2010         2011         2012          2013         2014          2015i
A - NR of viable caisses           Idem         Idem         Idem         Idem         Idem          Idem         Idem          Idem I
Abidjan Est
Abidjan Ouest
Bouake
Gagnoa
Korhogo
Man
8 - NR of members                137257       140002       142S02       143658       148571        151543       154573        157665
Abidjan Est          24404        24892        25390        25897         26415        26944        27483         28032
Abidpn -Cst          26300        26828        27362        27909         28467        29037        29618         30210
Souak6               22480        22918        23376        23844         24321        24807        25303         25809
Gagnoa               25908        26424        26953        27492         28042        2S809        29174         29758
Kothogo              22000        22440        22889        23347         23814        24290        24778         25272
Man                  16178        18502        16832        17169         17512        17892        18220         18584
(FCFA 000)
C - lMembes' equity             411770        420006       428406       436974       445714        45488        483720        4i299S
Abidjan Est          73211        74678        78619        7768e         79245        80831        82448         84097
Abidjan Ouest        7889s        80477        82086        83728         SS402        87111         88853        90630
Bouak6               67408        68754        70129        7131          72989        74421        75910         77428
Gagnoa               77718        79273        80858        82475         84125        85807        87523         89274
Kohogo               88001        67321        8a88S        70041         71442        72871        7432          75815
Man                  48536        49508        80496        51508         52S36        53s87        54859         55752
0 - Savings                   23053815    26511887    30488670    850o1971    40321267    4S369456    53324376    81323606
Abidjon Est        6537737      7518398      8646157      9943081      11434543     13149725     15122183      173W0511
Abidjan Ouest      5272773      e0o3689      6973242      8019229      9222113      10606430     12195244      14025881
*ouak6             3531377      4061084      4670247      5370784       8176401      7102861      818829o       9393534
Gagnoa             3480814      4002936      4603376      5293383      8087965       7001160      8051334       9259034
Korhogo            24920os      2885924      3295813      3790185      4358713       5012520      5764397      6829057
Man                1739006      1999856      2299835      2644810      3041532       3497762      4022428       4e25790
E- Outstanding lans           1002338s    11526907   1t255944    15244335    17580985    20160633    23134728    26862437
Abidjan Est        2842494      3268869      3759199      4323079       4971640      5717272      6574862       7561092
Abidjar Ouast      229251o      2638387      3031848      8488821       4009614      4811057      5302715       6098122
Bouak              1535381      1768589      2030542      2335123     _2685392       3088201      3551431       4084146
Gagnoa             1513397      1740407      2001488      2301688       2646041      3043082      3500580       4025887
Korhogo            108325       1246054      1432962      1647906       1898092      2179858      2506260       2882199
Man                 75s609       869503       99s28       114991.       1322405      1520768       1748881      2011213
F - Total deposits in banis    11o25438    12626259    14468143    16580029    19011829    21806240    25018688            28711785
Abidjan Eat        3083534      3536841      4057527      4685853       5344807      8388329      7048375       so82720
Abidjan Ouest      25065e8      2272398      329289s      3776288       4331933      4970732       57051 30     859484
Bouak6             1893181      1938400      2220381      2544412      2918688       334Doo0      3337181       4402989
Gagnoa             1880083         922093    2200204      2519829       2887188      3309440      3794812       4352770
Korhogo            1213120      1386883      1885918      1814988       2078199      2380734      2728466       3128170
Man                 848976       970075      1109215      1269099       1452835      1663999       1906702      21e8572
RAI-CREP 11/15/93



REPULIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJEC
PRESENT AND PROJECTED PROFITABILITY
LSumnLy of CREPs Network finr)elnggao (CFA F 000)
1993     1994      1995       1996      1997     1998      1999     2000      2001       2002
C nREPr.
.'.w plut oi v,lalo Ct:l:l (I l)             12700    21X)53    42932      11It079   221995   2011t 0    344007   4191971  .07523     011817
Tolal deficits of non-viable CREPs (2)      -83433   -82577   -87044       -29007   -24961    -9710    -2821    -1895       -661        -182
I'logiO$lIt Units
Contribution of viable CF.._.Ps 30%. (3)      3836      6016    12880       35994    66599    84357   103409   125991    152257       183545
Total cost of services (4)                 -177722  -230138  -249663    -251736  -262725  -262649  -275781  -289571  -304049   -319252
Deficit or surplus (5) = (3 + 4)           -173886  -224122  -236783    -215742  -196126  -178292  -172372  - 163579  - 151792    -135706
Central Unit
Retained Margin on Interest earnings 4.5% (6)  19794    31490    44006      58445    83192    99756   113752   128958   146377        166337
Total cost ot services (7)                 -173743  -172883  -180617    -171588  -175439  -172012  -177173  -182488  -187962    -193601
- Operating costs                         -131743  -135883  -142617    -146568  -152439  -157012  -161723  - 166574  -171571    -176719
- Audit and investigation costs             -42000   -37000   -38000      -25000   -23000   -15000   -15450   -15914   -16391         -16883
Deficit of CREPs Network (8)  (2 + 5 + 6 + 7)  -411267  -448092  -460439    -357870  -313334  -260259  -238614  -219003  - 194039    -t13153
Investments (9)                                     -620100  -454900  -450000    -162400  -264500  -115000   -66650   -68350   - 70100    -71903
Vehicles and equipement for the Regions     -85800   -16700    -8000       -11200   -57600   -20000   -20600   -21218   -21855        -22510
Vehicles and equipement for the C. U.      -154300   -24700   -12000       -31200   -W8900   -35000   -36050   -37132   -38245        -39393
Technical assislance                       -380000  -413500  -430000    -120000  -120000   -60000   - 10000   -10000   -10000         -10000
Total Financing gap (8 + 9)                        -1031367  -902992  -910439    -520270  -577834  -375259  -305264  -287353  -264139    -235056
C 1
RCt-CREP 11/15/93



REPULIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILTATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROJECTED PROFITABILITY
Summ;r y of CREPs Network financing gap (CFA F 000)
2003     2004     2005      2006     2007        2008     2009      2010     2011     2012
CREPs
Surplus of viable CREPs (1)                 729715   869963  1030514  1216826  1434569    1684595  1973685  2310617  2697321  3143752
Total deficits of non-viable CREPs (2)        503      -387      671      1611      659        1448     2352      524       856     1236
Regional Units
Contribution of viable CREPs 30% (3)        218915   260989   309154   365048   430371       50fi378   592105   693185   809196   943126
Total cost of services (4)                -335214  -351975  -369574  -388052  -407455    -427828  -449219  -471680  -495264  -520027
Deficit or surplus (5) (3 + 4)            -116300   -90986   -60419   -23004    22916         77551   142887   221505   313932   423099
Central Unit
Retained Margin on interest earnings 4.5% (6)  189214   215439   245511   279999   319560    364946   417023   476786   545378   624114
Total cost of services (7)                - 199409  -205392  -211553  -217900  -224437    -231170  -238105  -245248  -252606  -260184
- Operating costs                         -182020  -187481  -193105  - 198198  -204865    -211011  -217342  -223862  -230578  -237495
- Audit and investigation costs            -17389   -17911   -18448   -19002   - 19572      -20159   -20764   -21386   -22029  -22689
Deficit of CREPs Network (8) = (2 + 5 + 6 + 7)  -125992   -81325   -25790    40706   118698  212774   324156   453567   607561   788264
Investments (9)                                      -73760   -75S673   -77643   -79672  -81763       -83915   -86133   -88417   -90769  -93192
Vehiles and equipement for the Regions     -23185   -23881   -24597   -25335   -26095       -26878   -27685   -28515   -29371   -30252
Vehicles and equipement for the C. U.      -40575   -41792   -43046   -44337   -45667       -47037   -48448   -49902   -51399  -52941
Technical assistance                       -10000   -11000   -10000   -10000   -10000       -10000   -10000   -10000   -10000   -10000
Total Financing gap (8 + 9)                         -199752  -156998  -103433   -38366    36935       128859   238023   365150   516792   695072
RCI-CREP 11/15/93



Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROJECTED PROFITABILITY
Break-Even point of a Rural Caisse
Savings deposits   CPA F 10 million
Expenditures ('000 CPA F)
1.    Interest payments (4% on members
average annual deposits)                                     400
2.    Water, electricity consumption                                100
3.    Office supplies                                               50
4.    Other services
- rent (CFA F 8330/month)                             100
- fimd transfer fees
ransporton, tr'aing                                   100
5.    Other expenditures (insurance)                                50
6.    Subsecription to HQs (0.5% of deposits)                       50
7.    Other subscriptions (fixed amount)                            60
8.    Miscellaneous (board. general meetings)                       20
9.    Managers salary (2500 x 2j x 52/1000)                         260
10.    Depreciation allowance for funiture                           20
11.    Provisions for doubtfil loans (2.5% on 5
million of loans for 10 million of deposits)                 125
Total                                               1 335
Incomes ('000 CFA F)
12.    Interest earnings on caisses' deposits
at caisse centrale (40% of deposits x 7%)                    280
13.    Members' subscription (contribution of 2000
CFA F for booknotes and operating costs on
the basis of 50 members/year)                                100
14.    Commisions for loans processing (5 million of
loans/50000 per loan = 100 fles x 1500 CFA F)                150
15.    Interest earnings on loans (5 million x 22 %)               1100
Total                                        1 630
Net benefit                                   295



Annex 2
Page 7 of 9
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROJECTED PROFITABILITY
Break-Even point of a Semi-Urban Caisse
Savinus deposits  CFA F 20 million
Ex"enditures ('000 CFA F)
1.    Interest payments (4% on members
avemge annual deposits)                                      800
2.    Water, electricity consumption                                150
3.    Office supplies                                               100
4.    Other services
- ret (CFA F 25000/month)                            300
- fimd tansfer fees
nsporttion, training                                  I50
5.    Other expenditures (insurance)                                50
6.    Subscription to HQs (0.5% of deposits)                        100
7.    Other subscriptions (fixed amount)                            60
8.    Miscellaneous (board, general meetings)                       50
9.    Managers salary (2500 x 4j x 52/1000)                         520
10.    Depreciation allowance for furiture                           50
11.    Provisions for doubtful loans (2.5% on 10
million of loans for 20 million of deposits)                 250
Total                                       2 580
Incomes ('000 CPA F)
12.    Interest earnings on caisses' deposits
at caisse centrale (40% of deposits x 7%)                    560
13.    Members' subscription (contribution of 2000
CFA F for booknotes and operating costs on
the basis of 100 members/year)                               200
14.    Commissions for loans processing (10 million of
loans/50000 per loan = 200 files x 1500 CFA F)               300
15.    Intarest earnings on loans (10 million x 22%)               2 200
Total                                       3 260
Net benefit                                   680



Annex 2
Page # of 9
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROJECTED PROFITABILITY
Break-Even point of a Urban Caisse
Savings delposits = CFA F 30 million
Expenditures ('000 CFA F)
1.    Interest payments (4% on members
average annual deposits)                                    1 200
2.    Water, electricity consumption                                300
3.    Office supplies                                               1.50
4.    Other services
- rent (CFA F 60000/month)                           720
- fund transfer fees
transportation, training                             300
5.    Other expenditures (insurance)                                S0
6.    Subscription to HQs (0.5 of deposits)                         150
7.    Other subscriptions (fixed amount)                            60
8.    Miscellaneous (board, general meetings)                       80
9.    Managers salary (2500 x 6j x 52/1000)                         780
10.    Depreciation allowance for funiture                           80
11.    Provisions for doubtful loans (2.5% on 15
million of loans for 30 milion of deposits)                  375
Total                                               4 245
Incomes ('000 CFA F)
12.    Interest earnings on caisses' deposits
at caisse centrale (40% of deposits x 7%)                    840
13.    Members' subscription (contribution of 2000
CFAF for booknotes and operating costs on
the basis of 150 members/year)                               300
14.    Commissions for loans processing (15 million of
loans/50000 per loan - 300 files x 1500 CFA F)               450
15.    Interest earnings on loans (15 million x 22%)               3 300
Total                                               4 890
Net benefit                                          645



Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROJECTED PROFITABILITY
Projections at the start of the subsequent Rhase ('998)
1.     Primary Level Caisses:
-      Membership increases at a rate of 2% (minimum) per year;
-      Savings increase at an average rate of 15% per year, except for the Man Region where the rate has
been adjusted to 10% given pooer conditions in thisegions;
-      Operating costs increasing at a rate of 5° X per year;
-      Cntribution of 30% of profits will be paid to Regional and Central Units.
2.     Regional Units:
-      Average investments = 20 million CFAF in 1998 increasing at a rate of 5 % per year;
-      Operating costs increase at a rate of 5 % per year;
-      Retained margin of 4.5% on interest earnings (11.5-7).
3.     Centra Un
-      Average investments = 15 million CFAF in 1998 increasing at a rate of 5 % per year;
-Operating costs increase at a rate of 5% per year;
-      Im3plementation costs: Technical Assistance will be reduced by half in 1996 and removed at the end
of FY 1997 ; However, external missions will be planned at an annual fixed cost of 10 million
CFAF.
4.     Other assumptions:
-      Loans and deposits rates are as following:
1993   1994   1995   1996 and after
Loans as % of Savings         20%    30%    40%    50%
Deposits as % of Savings      70%    60%    50%    40%
10% of Deposits kept has revolving fund.



Annex 3
Page I of 4
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
LEITER OF SECTOR POLICY
MINISTERE DELEGUE                                         REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
AUPRES DU PREMIER MINISTRE                                            Union - Discipline - Travail
CHARGE DE L'ECONOMIE, DES FINANCES
ET DU PLAN                                                           18 novembre 1993
LETTRRE DE POLfITQUE DU GOUVERNEMENT
SUR LE RERABILIrATION ET LA PROMOTION
DES CAISSES D'EPARGNE ET DE FRETS
}NTRODUCTION
Le Gouvernement a trac6 dans son programme I moyen terme et danm les programmes setoriels,
concernant notamment I'agriculture et le secteur financier, les gmndes orientations de politique economique qui
visent k redonner I la C6te d'Ivoire un taux de croissance positif de 5% a l'horizon 1995.
IA mobilisation de 1'pargne int6rieure, la consolidation de la contribution de l'agiiculture a la
richesse nationale, la couverture des besoins d'epargne et de cr&dit des populations rurales constituent des axes
d'actions prioritaires de ces differents programmes.
Dbs la liquidationde la Banque Nationale de D6veloppement Agncole (BNDA), decid6e en Octobre
1991, danm le cadre du progamme d'ajustement structurol du secteur financier (PASFI), les Autorit6s se sont
souci6es de trouver les moyens de preserver les acquis de la banque dans la coUecte des dEpats et d'assurer la
poursuite des financements qui se rdalisaient par son intermediaire.
En matiere de financement des filieres agricoles orgards6es, il est fait appel a un systTme mettant
en relations les principaux intervenants, le systame bancaire, ainsi que des baifleurs de fonds pour le financement
des investissements.
Pour la collecte de l'epargne et la couverture des besoins de credits, le Gouvernement a retenu
les orientations faisant suite I une Etude entreprise conjoitement par le Centre hIternational de Credit Mutuel
(France) et la Societe iternationale Desjardins (Canada) visant le developpement d'un r6seau a base mutualiste. Des
bailleurs de fonds tels que le Canada, la France et la Banque Mondiale ont marque leur interet pour ce projet I
1'elaboration duquel ils ont ete associes.
La presente lettre de politique generale decrit, apres un rappel des principes d'organisation, les
objectifs de developpement du reseau, l'organisation et les moyens mis en oeuvre, les besoins de financement et
leur couverture, les modalitds d'intvention de l'Etat. Le cadre geEr ainsi trace garde cependant un carctre
evolutif de maniere I permettre les adaptations qui apparitront necessaires pour assurer la viabiite du reseau.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
I - P}UNCIPES GENERAUX DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU RESEAU
Les principes selon lesquels doit se developper et fonctionner le systame de cr&lit mutuel visant
A favoriser l'interm6diation financiere en milieu rural ont 6te6 nonces dans le releve de conclusions du 28 mars 1992
faisant suite a une rencontre entre les autorites de la Cote d'Ivoire, les bailleurs de fonds et le op&rateurs qui se
proposent pour r6habiliter et d6velopper le reseau. Ces principes se resument ainsi:
-      Autonomie des institutions pour leur gestion, leurs operations, le recrutement de leur personnel
et pour leur 6quilibre financier. L'Etat exerce son role de tutelle gen6ral, dans le cadre des dispositions Idgales et
reglementaires.
-      Intervention coordonnee des operateurs: elle se realise en concertation avec les autorit6s, sans qu'il
y ait exclusivite.
-      Developpement du r6seau en vue d'obtenir une couverture nationale, tout en respectant l'equilibre
financier a terme des implantations.
-      Organisation du reseau selon une demarche f&edrative souple, avec un appui exterieur initial centre
sur la formation de maniere a permettre une prise en charge graduelle par les organes responsables.
-      Rattachement au cadre r6glementaire actuel pour ce qui est du statut des caisses et de leurs
op6rations, avant de les placer sous le cadre r6glementaire qui est en voie d'elaboration par la BCEAO.
I - OBJECTIFS DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU RESEAU
Le projet vise la rehabilitation de caisses qui existent et a l'ouverture de nouvelles caisses sur
1'ensemble du territoire, avec des objectifs globaux de collecte d'epargne et de credits.
1 -    La rehabilitation concernera les caisses jugees viables apres examen de leur situation qui a deja
§te entrepris.
Une premitre evaluation Aaisse penser que 19 fermetures sont a prevoir. Grace a des mesures
approprides de formation et d'appui, quelque 65 autres pourraient etre maintenues.
2 -    L'ouverture de 88 caisses nouveUles est prevue pour les 5 ans A venir. Des projets de localisation
ont deja ete etablis. Cependant, l'implantation sera decidde sur la base d'enquetes socio-economiques conduites par
les operateurs du projet.
3 -    Les objectifs susceptibles d'etre atteints, au bout de 5 ans sont chiffres A 5,7 rnilliards de FCFA
pour la collecte de l'epargne. Une part des sommes collectees sra utilisee pour la mise en place de crEdits, I'autre
partie fera l'objet de placements de tresorerie.
Le nombre des adherents passerait de 15.000 actuellement it 113.000 en 1998/99, effectif qui
correspondait a celui des deposants de l'ex BNDA.
I][ - STRUCTURES ET ORGANISATION DU RESEAU
1 -    Selon les principes de gestion et responsabilitEs d6centralisEs du crEdit mutuel, le rdseau
s'organisera selon une structure pyramidale qui se mettra progressivement en place:



Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
-      Caisses locales, denommtes Caisses Rurales d'Epargne et de Prets (CREP), institutions de base
autonome, auxquelles les soci6taires adharent par la souscription d'une part sociale de 3.000 FCFA. Chaque
caisse est dirigee par un Conseil avec un Prdsident qui la reprdsente.
-      Association Nationale des CREP et COOPEC de C6te d'Ivoire (ANAC-CI), & laquelle les CREP
adherent. L'ANAC-CI fixe les principes de fonctionnement du r6seau des CREP. Elle constitue egalement
l'organe de representation du reseau, en particulier aupr?as des pouvoirs publics.
-      Structure d'appui, ddnommee Unite centrale de gestion, qui prefigure la Caisse centrale du reseau
qui pourra 8tre cr66e lorsque celui-ci aura atteint une taille suffisante.
-      L'Unit6 centrale de gestion agit dans le cadre de pouvoirs qui lui sont delegu6s par l'ANAC-CI.
Dans la phase de depart, l'Unite centrale jouera un role d6terminant dans l'implantation du reseau, I'appui
et le contrkle des caisses, la formation des responsables et des gestionnaires. Elle sera chargde de la gestion
des fonds relatifs au projet et de leur emploi. Elle recueillera 6galement les exc6dents des Caisses pour les
placer.
L'Unite centrale de gestion mettra en place des D6legations regionales, qui seront au nombre de
six (KORHOGO, BOUAKE, MAN, GAGNOA, ABIDJAN EST, ABIDJAN OUEST). Dans une premiere phase,
ce seront les structures d'appui, dependant de l'UniR 1 centrale de gestion, chargees, en particulier, de la formation
et de la promotion dans leur zone de competence.
2 -    Le reseau sera appuy6, dans sa phase initiale, par un dispositifd'assistance technique qui sera mis
en place par le CICM et la SDID selon les dispositions d'un contrat d'operateurs passd avec l'Etat.
La dur6e des missions d'assistance technique est pr6vue pour 3 ans au maximum. Le relais par
des cadres ivoiriens devrait intervenir dans ce delai a l'echelon des unites r6gionales, en raison du fort accent qui
sera mis sur la formation. Exceptionnellement, 1 ou 2 assistants techniques pourraient etre tnaintenus sur une
p6riode de 5 ans au maximum.
W - BESOIN DE FINANCEMENT ET COUVERTURE
1 -    Les coilts lidsa  la rehabilitation et au d6veloppement du reseau ont ete chiffres a 5 milliards sur
5 ans.
Le financement de ces coOts pourfa etre assure pour une large part grace a des contributions
ext6rieures pour lesquelles des accords pr6alables ont deji ete recueillis.
Pour sa part, I'Etat assumera les charges inh6rentes aux taxes douanieres et fiscales selon les rbgles
fix6es par la reglementation concermant les op6rations financ6es sur concours exterieurs.
Les dons seront reverses au reseau, par l'entremise de l'ANAC-CI. Les prets seront retroc&eds
au reseau, par le biais d'un accord I passer avec I'ANAC-CI, aux conditions concessionnelles qui sont faites a
l'Etat.
V - APPUIS ET ENGAGEMENTS DE L'ETAT
1 - Dispositif institutionnel
Les dispositions de la loi 77-332 relative au statut de la coopdration ainsi que les D6crets
d'application subs6quents forment le cadre juridique des Caisses d'epargne et de credit (CREP, COOPEC).



Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
C'est dans ce cadre que s'exerce la tutelle de l'Etat jusqu'k l'entree du nouveau dispositif qui est
elabore I l'6chelon de l'UMOA.
2 - Instances de representation et de concertation
a)     L'ANAC-CI, constituee par les CREP et COOPEC qui devront y adherer, sera reconnue comme
l'organe representatif du r6seau. Elle fixera les orientations du reseau.
A ce titre, elle sera appel6e a produire une lettre de politique gendrale, en harmonie avec les
dispositions enonc6es dans la lettre de politique de developpement arr8tee par les pouvoirs publics.
L'ANAC-CI sera l'instance de concertation avoc les pouvoirs publics. La concertation portera sur
les conditions de d6veloppement et de fonctionnement du reseau, dans le cadre de rencontres qui auront au moins
deux fois I'an avec les services du Ministere charg6 des Finances et du Ministbre charg6 de l'Agriculture.
b)     Un Comit6 National de suivi du CrEdit Mutuel sera institua.
11 so composera des representants de l'Adiniistration, du reseau, de la BCEAO ainsi que des
Opdrateurs.
Le Comite sera informe periodiquement de la situation du reseau et de son developpement. II sera
appel6 a donner son avis en cas de divergences entre l'ANAC-CI et l'Unitd centrale de gestion.
3 - Mise en place des financements
L'Etat rdtocdera, sous forme de pr&s ou de dons, salon des modalites qui seront arret6es avec
le Comite National de suivi, les financements internes et exterieurs qui seront mobilises au profit du Credit Mutuel.
La partie des financements affectsa I l'assistance 61mique fera l'objet d'un contrat passe entre
l'Etat et les operateurs.
4 - Dispogitions fiscales et r6glementaires
Les operations d'6pargne et de credit des CREP ne sont pas soumises a la rdglementation
s'appliquant aux banques et etablissements financiers. Toutefois, le taux des prets devra rester dans les limites fixees
par la Loi sur la rdpression de l'usure.
Les CREP et le reseau seront tenus par Ia r6glementation les concemant qui est en voie d'etre
edictde par la BCEAO.
Les excddents de tresorerie des CREP deposes en lour nom auprbs des banques ont ete exoneres
de tout prelevement fiscal, par derogation aux dispositions applicables aux coopratives et groupements mutualistes.
Ministre Delegue
auprOs du Premier Ministre,
chargE de l'Economie,
des Finances et du Plan



Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
RESIDENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - SUMMARY OF TERMS OF REFERENCE
Project Coordinator, five years as of PYI, based in Abidjan at the CeLtral Management Unit
(CMU).
Responsibilities: He/She would head the Central Management Unit and be responsible for overall project
management. In particular, he/she would be responsible for personnel management, financial and administrative
management, overall inspection and supervision of the Network, training and liaisons with the Network's policy-
making body (National Committee of Presidents-NCP). In concert with CMU staff and the NCP, he/she would
define and implement the Networc's development policy. He/she would also be the primary interlocutor of both
the steering comnittee and donors. He/she's performance would be reviewed anmnally against specific
indicators (effectiveness to build up local capacitiy, transfer of skills and training).
Oualifications:  Rural Credit Specialist with knowledge of general financial issues. A minimum of twelve
years experience, of which at least six in Africa would be required for this assigmment.
French language is essential.
Fundine:      This position would be financed by the French Cooperation (FAC).
2.            Trainine Specialist, 5 years as of PY1, based in Abidjan at the Central Management Unit.
Rewonsibilities: He/she would be responsible for developing a training strategy for the Network with a view to
intenalize the main principles of a mutualistic financial cooperative with both members and managers. He/she
would develop trainig tools that would help install sound financial management practices. He/she would serve
under the direct supervision of the Project Coordinator and act as the Deputy-Director of the CMU. He/she
would develop training modules and insure that they are implemented properly by Regional Service Units.
He/she's performance would be reviewed annually against specific indicators (effectiveness to build up local
capacitiy, transfer of skllls and training).
Oualifications: Training Specialist with strong knowledge of rural credit institutions. A minimum of ten years
experience, of which at least five in Africa would be required for this assignment French
language is essential.
Funding:      This position would be financed by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).
3.            Regional Coordinator (6): Three years as of PYI. He/she would be responsible for overall
project management at the Regional Service Unit level. In close liaison with the Central Management Unit,
he/she would assist in the creation of new CREPs, implement the training program established for his/her
region, ensure that all prudential ratios are met through frequent supervision and inspection. He/she would also
be responsible for (a) identifying training needs and in response, define with the help of the CMU, a training
program to be implemented for CREPs within his/her region; (b) organize awareness campaings at the regional
level and undertake socio-economic and diagnostic studies that would serve as the basis for opening and/or
closing CREPs. He/she's performance would be reviewed annually against specific indicators (effectiveness to
build up local capacitiy, transfer of skills and training).



AMnex 4
Pago 2 of 2
Oualifications: Rural Credit Specialist with at least ten years experience of which at least 5 in Africa. French
lnguage is essential.
Funding:      -       2 positions would be financed by the French Caisse de D6veloppement (CFD)
-      I position would be financed by the French Cooperation (FAC)
-      3 positions would be financed by the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA)
NB. IDA funds would not finance any long-term Technical Assistance.



Cote d$IvoIre
Rural Savings & Loans Rehab. & Promotlon Project
(CREPs)
Sumary Account by Project Component
CFAF
Physical             Price
Rehab.    Reglonal   Central                         Contingencies         Contingencies
Caisses    Service   Nanegemen                    ------.......-------------.--.---.-
Locates     Units        t Un1t        Totat          A       Amount        X    Amomt
I. INVESIMENT COStS
....................
A. CIVIL WJORKS                       249419.6         0.0          0.0   249419.6         10.0    24942.0       8.8    21897.6
B. VEHICLES                                0.0   311142.9   266632.1   577M.0               1.0     5777.7       8.0    46303.8
C. EQUiPMENT                          355000.0   343385.8   246374.8   944760.7             6.2    58398.7       6.3    59272.3
0. CONSUILTANCIES
1. Technical Assistsnce                   0.0  1783544.6  1123571.4  2907116.1            0.0         0.0       6.2   181401.9
2. Audits/Management Support              0.0   160071.4   493392.8   653464.2             1.2     8003.6        7.9    51773.4
3. Training                               0.0         0.0   751303.6   751303.6            4.3    32453.6       12.1    90929.7
Sub-totat                                 0.0  1943616.1  2368267.8  4311883.8             0.9    40457.1        7.5   324105.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                604419.6  2598144.8  2881274.7  6083839.2             2.1   129575.6        7.4   451578.6
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATING COStS                    259674.1  1129903.7   9729M.7  2362483.S              3.2    74482.2       10.7   252992.2
S. PAST OPERATING LOSSES              175000.0         0.0          0.0   175000.0          0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
................................................................ ............................................................................. ,.o
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 434674.1  1129903.?   972905.7  2537483.5             2.9    74482.2       1.0   252992.2
totat BASELINE COSTS                 1039093.7  3728048.5  3854180.4  8621322.7             2.4   204057.8        8.2   704570.8
Physical Contingencies               59668.4    58355.5    86033.9   204057.8
Price Contingenctes                  59229.9   289244.9   356096.0   704570.8             2.5    17436.2
. .... ....... ...............................................................................
Totat PROJECT COSTS                  1157992.0  4075648.9  4296310.3  9529951.3             2.3   221494.0        7.4   704570.8
a-cu----------s------------2-s        lU*SflflUOflflUW s2222-UrCCle222          e s2s-S 2eSSC3U
Taxes                                    0.0   349685.3   278545.5   628230.7             1.6     9823.2
Foreign Exchange                    498747.7  2654737.5  3441932.5  6595417.6             2.2   144246.6
........................................................................................................................
Values Scated by 1000.0 21311994 10:24
I >
% 0



Cote dtlvoire
Rural Savings & Loans Rehab. S Promotion Project
(CREPs)
Sutmary Accounts by Year
Totals Inctuding Contingencles                                                          Totals Including Contingencies
CFAf                                                                                     USS
......... . . ...                                  ..............................  ............. .......... ......................  ........... .  .................. .... .. . .. . ..... .... ............................ .....
1994         1995          1996          1997          1998        Total              1994          1995         1996          1997          1998        Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A. CIVIL WORKS                               90590.7      46933.3       56736.4       67188.3       34810.5    296259.2               149.7         77.6          93.8         111.1          57.5        489.7
s. VEHICLES                                204429.4    109833.1         56673.9       19495.8    239424.3    629856.5                337.9         181.5          93.7          32.2        39s.7        1041.1
C. EQUIPMENT                               617916.9       51717.4       54973.0    136958.3    200866.0   1062431.7                 1021.4          85.5          90.9         226.4        332.0        1756.1
0. CONSULTANCIES
1. Technical Assistance                806379.3    862808.9    929038.8    241284.9    249006.0  3088517.9                      1332.9        1426.1        1535.6         398.8        411.6        5105.0
2. Audits/Managemnt Support             145052.7    144904.5    175067.9    146274.8    101941.3    713241.2                      239.8         239.5        289.4         241.8         168.5       1178.9
3. Training                              51239.5       70982.2       78792.7    331477.6    342194.9   874686.8                    84.7         117.3        130.2         547.9         565.6       1445.8
................ .............. ....... .. .............. ....................... ... .... .. . ... .  ....... ........... . ......... ............. ...... ......... .... ...... .
Sub-Total                                 1002671.5   1078695.6   1182899.4    719037.3    693142.2  4676445.9                      1657.3        1783.0        1955.2        1188.5       t145.7        7729.7
...................................................................                     ................................................................................................... ........................ .............
Total INlVSTMENT COSTS                    1915608.4   1287179.4   13512a2.7    942679.8   1168243.0  6664993.3                      3166.3        2127.6        2233.5        1558.1       1931.0       11016.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATING COSTS                         432471.2    549416.7    595032.3    600981.8    512055.9  2689958.0                        714.8        908.1         983.5         993.4         846.4       4446.2
S. PAST OPERATING LOSSES                    175000.0            0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0    175000.0              289.3           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0        289.3
........................ ................................................................... ..... ....... .... ... ..... ....... ................ ........................ ...... ........ ......... ...
Total RECURRENT COSTS                      607471.2    549416.7    595032.3    600981.8    512055.9  2864958.0                       1004.1        908.1         983.5         993.4         846.4       4735.5
flutrn:gmg:uflnrn=u:c=asuc sf ss-=m:lewst3.mmm=flflnt.ncnncsfl:u==                   Smu.           P...U. a.ff     M    =r                =       == 8 M.= .....r:ff= .=..==...
Total PROJECT COSTS                       2523079.6  1836596.2   1946315.0  1543661.6   1680298.9  9529951.3                        4170.4        3035.7        3217.0        2551.5       2777.4       15752.0
.,,,m            -.. -------n e ..... PUMe"s ....                .. wMw,M,@utl. .. U                           ....      . .......... ...rsStrn:ntn:tun ....... ==       -.:...
Values Scaled by 1000,.  2/3/1994   10:24
5>
I.z 
o~ -



Cote d ivoire
Rural Savings g Loans Rehab. & Promotion Project
(CREPs)
CFAF
Suery Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                    Foreign Exchange
..*.......................^............................................................................. ......................
1994       1995       1996       1997       1998      Total          X     Amount
1. tNVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL W0RPKS                    80892.9   40446.4   47187.5   53928.6   26964.3  249419.6              48.1   119919.6
S. VEHICLES                       199217.9  103714.3   51857.1    17285.7  205700.0  577775.0             70.0  404442.5
C. ECUIPMENT                      574496.4   44707.8   45818.5  115012.4  164725.6  944760.7              65.1  615058.1
0. CONSULTANCIES
1. Techntcal AssIstance        793660.7  822830.4  858482.1  216071.4  216071.4  2907116.1             90.7  2636395.5
2. Audits/Management Support  140803.6  135971.0   159368.3  129819.1   87502.2  653464.2              93.8  612733.2
3. Training                     48989.3   65382.1   70203.6  283364.3  283364.3  751303.6              94.8  712603.6
Sub-total                         983453.6  1024183.5  1088054.0  629254.8  586937.9  4311883.8           91.9  3961732.3
................ ..............................,_....................................................................  ......................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           1838060.7  1213052.0  1232917.1  815481.5  984327.9 6083839.2            83.8  5101152.6
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
E. OPERATING COSTS                408953.5  495814.5  519755.2  511881.9  426078.4  2362483.5             38.4  906385.9
F. PAST OPERAtING LOSSES          175000.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0  175000.0           0.0        0.0
.... ;;;..... ;i......... .;;........ ;..            ....      ................................ , -........................................ ......... ............ _
Total RECURRENT COSTS             583953.5  495814.5  519755.2  51181.9  426C78.4  2537483.5              35.7  906385.9
., ..............................;; ........................................................... ............. ................._
Total BASELINE COSTS             2422014.2  1708866.5  1752672.4  1327363.4  1410406.2  8621322.7         69.7  6007538.5
Physicat Contingencies          58816.7   29323.4   31644.6   43718.4   40554.7  204057.8              65.3  133206.5
Price Contingencies             42248.8   9840S.2  161998.0   M579.9  229337.9  704570.8               64.5  454672.6
Total PROJECT COSTS              2523079.6  1836596.2  1946315.0  1543661.6  1680298.9 9529951.3          69.2  6595417.6
-*-----="g2s-a-"-w=S-"w-w"---             *u ..W."-....--*,""-- ...a... = .... - - -----
Taxes                          212898.5  110313.4   99945.3   60433.6  144639.9  628230.7               0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange              1662821.1  1325538.9  1427843.0  1057472.5  1121742.2  6595417.6        100.0  6595417.6
.............................................................. ...........................................................  
Vatues Seated by tO00.0  2/3/1994  10:24



Cote d*Ivolre
Rural SavIngs & Loans Rehab. & Promotion Project
(CREPs)
Summary Accounts Cost Suwaary
CFAF                                          USS                                       X Total
...............................                  ..........................-               X Foreign            Base
Local       Foreign          Total            Local   Foreign         Total          Exchange           Costs
.................................                 ............................................. ... ........... ........... ..
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A. ClVtL I*ORKS                               129500.0    119919.6    249419.6                  288.6        123.7       412.3               48.1             2.9
S. VEHICLES                                   173332.5    404442.5    577m .0                   286.5        668.5       955.0               70.0             6.7
C. EQUIPMENT                                  329702.5    615058.1    944760.7                  678.9        882.7    1561.6                 65.1           11.0
0. CONSULTANCIES
1. Technical Assistance                   270720.5   2636395.5   2907116.1                  473.4    4331.8    4805.2                    90.7           33.7
2. Audits/Management Support               40731.0    612733.2    653464.2                  134.5       945.6    1080.1                  93.8             7.6
3. Training                                38700.0    712603.6    751303.6                  126.2    1115.6    1241.8                    94.8            8.7
.................................                 ............................................. ......................... .....................................
Sub-Totat                                     350151.5   3961732.3   4311883.8                  734.1    6393.0    7127.1                    91.9           50.0
... ;;;; ..................... ....................................... .....................................    ......................
Total  INVESTMENT COSTS                       982686.6   5101152.6   6083839.2                 1988.1    8067.8   10055.9                    83.8            70.6
..................... :........................................... ...........................    ..................................... ...........
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATING COSTS                           1456097.6    906385.9   2362483.5                 2691.4    1213.5    3904.9                    38.4            27.4
B. PAST OPERATING LOSSES                      175000.0              0.0    175000.0             289.3           0.0      289.3                 0.0            2.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                        1631097.6    906385.9   2537483.5                 2980.7    1213.5    4194.2                    35.7           29.4
................... .............................................. ...........................    .................................................
Total 8ASELINE  COSTS                       2613784.2   6007538.5   8621322.7                  4968.8    9281.3   14250.1                    65.1          100.0
Physical Contingencies                     70851.3    133206.5    204057.8                   117.1       220.2       337.3               65.3             2.4
Price Contingencles                       249898.1    454672.6    704570.8                 -235.4    1400.0    1164.6                   120.2             8.2
.................... ............................................. ...........................    .................................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                         2934533.7   6595417.6   9529951.3                 4850.5   10901.5   15752.0                    69.2          110.5
'* ...  ee..hlfw ls* efs  wwfhl                   *Sa  Uoneafl.sfl. S           sa.fl   *a arM*m Nhwlas              nowsx
...................................................... ..............................................................
Values Scaled by 1000.0  -    2/3/1994   10:24
IL'



Cote d'lvoire
Rural Savings & Loans Rehab. A Promotion Project
(CREPs)
Projects Coffonents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                                                Totals Including  Contingencies
CFAF                                                                                           US$
1994          1995           1996           1997          1998          Totat               1994          1995           1996          1997           1998         lot,
A. Rehab. Caisses Locales                       587252.5    177771.7    173639.5    137379.1                81949.3   1157992.0                970.7          293.8          287.0          227.1         135.5        1914.0
S. Regional Servfce Units                     1070046.2   1005107.7   1048965.4    357833.5    593696.1   4075648.9                           1768.7         1661.3         1733.8         591.5          981.3        6736.6
C. Central Management Unit                     865781.0    653716.8    723710.1   1048449.0   1004653.5   4296310.3                           1431.0         1080.5         1196.2        1733.0         1660.6        7101.3
.......................... ........................................................ .............................. .................................................... ................... ............................    
total PROJECTS COSTS                           2523079.6   1836S96.2   1946315.0   1543661.6   1680298.9  9529951.3                            4170.4         3035.7         3217.0        2551.5         2777.4       15752.0
...................... ............... ........................................................... ..,    ,       ,                                                         _ . _             .. .     ...         _. _. .....
Values Scated by 1000.0 2/3/1994 10:24



Annex 6
Page 1 of I
COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOAN REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ million equivalent)
Pre                    Project Year                       Total      Remarks
Project Element      Project        1       2        3        4       5         Payment
Credit Timinc
Sign/Effec/Clos       **          ***
Works
Buildings                        0.2     0.1      0.1    0.1         0         0.50         LCB
NIF
Goods
VehicLes/Equipment               1.0     0.2      0.8    0.80        0         2.80         LIS
***     ***      ***      **tl                             NIF
Consul tancies
LT Technical Assistance          1.5     1.5      1.0    1.0        0.10       5.10         NIF
}*      **       ***    ***       **
Audits/Management Support        0.27    0.27    0.33   0.16        0.15       1.18         OTHER
***      ***      * **            *                        NIF
Training                         0.44    0.4      0.2    0.2        0.2        1.44         OTHER
Hiscellaneous
Incremental Operating Costs      1.24    1.0      1.0    1.0       0.2         4.44         OTHER
*-^*******************        a ***********                Cofin'd
Pass losses                      0.30                                          0.30         NIF
TOTALS                             4.95    3.47    3.43   3.26        0.65      15.8
(IDA-Financed)                    (0.30)   (0.50)  (0.50)  (0.40)   (0.50)      (2.20)
NIF : Not IDA Financed



Anmex 7
Page I of t
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVTNGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE AND PROFILE
A. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Disbursemeent Profile
IDAs      lDA's                Project's Estimed Profile                         Standard Profile
FYs      Semesters           Per Semestr          Cumulatae           Per Serester         Cumulative
4------$000------__%--- -------…
1994      1994                    44         44         2                   0          0         0
11                    132       176         8                   66        66         3
1995      1995                    176       352        16                 132        198         9
II                    t98       550        25                  198       396        18
1996      1996                   242        792        36                 264       660         30
!l                    264      1056        48                  286       946        4S
1997      1997                   286       1342        61                 242       1188        54
11                    242      1584        72                  176      1364        62
1998      1998                   220       1804        82                 198      1562         71
11                    198      2002        91                  196      1760        80
1999      1999                    110      2112        96                 132       1892        86
11                     66      2200       100                  154      2200       100
B. Disbursement Profile'
2.4
2.2
2
1.6
1.4
1.2
c
E
40      ~~0.8
0.6-
0.4-
0.2
0
1994      1995       1996       1997       1998      1 999
IDA Fiscol Year
O Estimoted
+  Profile



Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
1.     PMC:          A Project Monitoring Committee (PMC), headed by the Ministry of Finance and
made of representatives BCEAO, the Network and other concerned ministries would
be responsible for overall monitonng and guidance to the Network. This monitoring
unit would be the primary vehicle through which the Government would have a 'droit
de regard' over project activities. It would be responsible for overall Monitoring and
guidance to the Network. The Monitoring Committee would also be called to give
advice in the event of a disagreement between ANAC-CI and the CMU.
2.     ANAC-CI:       ANAC-CI would be primarily responsible for defining the overall policy of the
Network, providing guidance to and supervising the Central Management Unit.
ANAC-CI would delegate part of its management powers to the CMU. Until the mid-
term review, time at which the permanent institutional set-up of the network is
decided, the ANAC-CI would essentially have an advisory role.
3.     CMU:          The Central Management Unit (CMU) would, in time, evolve into the Technical
Secretariat of the National Federation. This Unit would oversee activities undertaken
at the level of regional service units from where, specific training programs and credit
policies and savings mobilization efforts would be driven. The CMU would be
respoible for determining, in agreement with ANAC-CI, the closing and opening of
CREPs, designing training programs, implement publicity and awareness campaigns at
the national scale, collecting and centralizing data and statistics on the network's
development, and managing the project's human, physical and financial resources.
The CMU would also be responsible for the management of excess liquidity, ensuring
that prudential ratios are met and undertakng financial and administrative inspection
of all CREPs.
4.     RSU:           Regional Service Units (RSU) would provide timely supervision and support to
CREPs in their immediate geographical area. These regional service units would be
decentralized implementing 'arms' of the CMU. As such, they would be responsible
for the management and supervisory functions of the project in their area. In
particular, they would promote and assist in the creation of new CREPs, provide
training to members, ensure that all prudential ratios are met, see that the loan
portfolio is in good standing and, during the restructuring phase and beyond, make
sure that important efforts at loan recovery are made.
5.     CREPs'
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:  Each CREP has a Board of Directors composed of 5 to 7 members installed after
voting by a General Assembly. Each member can only stay a Board member not
more than three years. The Board of Directors is responsible for (a) deciding on
membership approval or dismissal, (b) nominating or dismissing the CREP managers;
(c) to set or modify interest rates after consultations with the CMU; (d) to manage the
CREP's financial account, and (e) assure proper management of the CREP. Members
of the Board of Directors do not receive any salary or supplemental payments.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
6.     CREPs' CC:   The Credit Committee (CC) is comprised of 3 to 5 members. This committee is in
charge of: (a) implementing the credit policy and ensuring credit worthiness of
applicants and; (b) monitoring the granting and repayment of loans.
7.     CREPs' SC:   The Surveillance Committee (SC), comprised of 3 members chosen after a vote by the
General Assembly, would be responsible for ensuring financial discipline amongst
CREP managers and Board members. This Committee would ensure that the CREP
is managed in accordance with guidelines established in the statutes, by-laws and by
the NCP. The Surveillance Committee would meet four times a year to perform ad-
hoc inspection of the CREP's books and accounts. In the event of mismanagement,
the SC would report directly to the RSU and the CMU.



Annex 9
Page I of 3
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IYOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
Plan de Formation
OJECTIFS
Mettre en place un programme de formation au oiveau national pour permettre aux socidtaires,
aux dirigeasts et aux employes du r6seau de s'approprier & tenme, l'ensemble des structures coopratives du
rdseau.
STRATEGIE
Le monde d'intervention repose sur trois paliers:
Premier naier:
Los CREP qui sont les structures de base; la cientble visee:
-      les societaires
lea dirigeants (es)
-      les g6rants (es)
-      les caissiers (es)
Deuxibme naiLer:      leg dal6gations r6gionales qui constituent l'encadrement rapproch6 des CREP; la
clientble vis6e:
-      les dirigeants r6gionaux
-      les promoteurs
-      les contrOleurs
Troisime paier:       le niveau central qui d6finit et propose les onientations sor lensemble du r6seau ; la
clientele vis6e:
-      le Conseil d'Administration
-      les cadres de l'unit6 centrale
METHODOLOGIE
La formation se deroule sur trois niveaux, local, r6ional et national. Chacun des niveaux aura
la responsabilite de concevoir et/ou de diffuser 1a formation selon la rEpartition suivante:
Au niveau local
Accueil
Information et education des socidtaires
Implication des dirigeants dans leur milieu.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
Au niveau r6gional
-      Formation sur lea lacunes constatees au niveau des operations courantes.
-      Formation des agents sur lea methodes et politiques I mettre en place.
-      Reprise des programmes de formation de port6e nationale.
Au niveau national
-      Conceptualisation et diffusion du programme de port6e nationale.
-      Formation des formateurs.
-      Appui & la conceptualisation des besoms de formation sp6cifiques des del6gations r6gionales.
-      Supervision de l'ensemble des actions de formation sur le reseau.
EBAUCHE DE CONTENU PAR PALIER
Premier galier, les CREP de base:
Les societaires
- fonmation d'un comit6 de sensibilisation
- guide de sensibilisation
- calendrier de sortie
- information populaire
L eos dirif ts
- pbilosophie coop6rative
- r6le et responsabilit6s des comit6s CA, CC et CS
- fixation d'objectifs par CREP/COOPEC
- participation active aux tables de concertation r6gionale
G6rant(e)/Caissier(e)
- structure organisationnelie d'une CREP/COOPEC
- les services offerts par la CREP/COOPEC
- role et responsabilites du g6rant(e) et caissier(e)
- la comptabilite d'une CREP
- les operations courantes d'ouverture et de fermeture d'un compte, retrait, dep6t, etc...
- les 6tats financiers
- travaux de fin d'ann6e
- planification budgetaire et suivi
- les outils de gestion
- I'organisation du travail
- politique de credit
- politique de recouvrement
- calcul des int6rets
- methode-, de recherches d'erreur



Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
Deuxieme valier, les deldgations rdgionales
Les dirigeants r6gionaux
- r6le et responsabilitds des comites r6gionaux
- implication economique et sociale des CREP/COOPEC de la region
Les promoteurs et controleurs
- structures organisationnelles des deldgations r6gionales
- services offerts par les directions regionales
- roles et responsabilit6s des employes
- l'orgamisation du travail
- la gestion des programmes annuels
- les methodes et procedures de travail
- le controle des CREP/COOPEC
- la planification budgetaire
- methodologie de la creation d'une CREP/COOPEC
- la comptabilit6 d'une CREP/COOPEC
- politique de credit
Troisieme palier, l'unite centrale
Conseil d'Administration/Comite National des Presidents
- role et responsabilite du CA
- implication economique et social des CREP/COOPEC au niveau national
- planification strategique
- gestion financibre du reseau
Cadres de l'unitd centrale
- structure organisationnelle de l'unit6 centrale
- services offerts par l'unit6 centrale
- roles et responsabilites des cadres
- l'organisation du travail
- la gestion du programme
- les methodes et procAdures de travail
- formation personnelle selon les besoins sp6cifiques
Devra s'ajouter, la formation concernant le secretariat:
I'accueil
le classement
mEthode de travail



Anr.. . 10
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF COTE DWIVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT (CREP)
SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
IDA Supervision Input into Key Activities*
Year                  Missions                                   Activity                                Expected Skill Requirements           SW
First Year                  1                Project Start-up                                             Task Manager                            8
Procurement Review                                           Financial Analyst
Financial Management
2               Organization/Management                                      Task Manager                             8
Review of field Activities including the financial           Financial Analyst
Rehabilitation Program
Second Year                  1               Implementation field Activities                               Task Manager                            8
Review CREP phasing in program                               Financial Analyst
2               Review of Field Activities                                   Task Manager                             6
Financial Performance of the Network                         Financial Analyst
Training Specialist
Third Year                  1                ImPlementation of Field Activities                           Task Manager                            8
Review of Socio-Economic Studies                             Financial Analyst
Procurement and Financial Review
2               Mid Term Review                                              Task Manager                            16
Confirmation/Reorienting of                                  Financial Analyst
Project Design and Objectives, Consultants Performance       Training Specialist
Institutional Set-up                                         Sociologist
Rural Credit SpeciaList
Fourth Year                  1               ImPlementation of Network Development Program                Task Manager                             8
Financial Monitoring                                         Financial Analyst
2               Financial Management                                         Task Manager                             8
Implementatfon of Network Development Program                Financial Analyst
Fifth Year                  1                ImpLementation of Network Development Program                Task Manager                            8
Financial Monitoring                                         Financial Analyst
Initiation of Phase II
Preparation Study
2               Implementation of Network Development Program                Task Manager                            12
Follow-up Preparation of Phase II                            Financial Analyst
PCR                                                          Rural Credit SpeciaList
* All supervision missions will be done, to the extent possible, jointly with other donors.



Annel I I
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRBE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREP)
KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
Key Monitorinf Indicators for Rehabilitation of Local Caisses Component
- Finalization and Adoption of Statement of Operating Policies      Effectiveness
- Finalization of By-Laws                                           Effectiveness
- Finalization of revised statutes                                  Effectiveness
- Iitiation of financial Rehabiltation Progrm                       September 1993
- Completion of Financial Rehabilitation Program                    December 1994
- Completion of 1st year Construction Program                       December 1994
- Completion of 2nd year Construction Program                       December 1995
- Completion of 3rd year Construction Program                       December 1996
- Completion of 4th year Construction Program                       December 1997
- Performance Indicators (loan recovery rates, loan/deposits,       September 1994, March 1994
deposits/membership, administrative costs/profits, deposits, etc ...)  September 1995, March 1995
September 1996, March 1996
September 1997, March 1997
- Membership                                                        September 1994, September 1994
September 1996, September 1996
September 1998
- Number of new CREPs                                               September 1994, September 1994
September 1996, September 1996
September 1998
Key Monitoring Indicators for Regional Service Units Component
- Initiation of Procurement for TA and Equipement/                  June 1993
- Recruitment and Posting of RSU personnel                          June to December 1993
-  itiation of Socio-economic Studies                               September 1993, September 1994,
September 1995, 1996, 1997
- Implementation of awareness seminars                              September 1994, March 1995,
September 1995, March 1996,
September 1996, March 1997,
September 1997, March 1998.
Key Monitorine Indicators for the Central Management Unit
- Initiation of procurement for TA and Equipment                    June 1993
- Recruitment and posting of CMU personnel                          June to December 1993
- Definition of Work Program                                        April to June of each year
- Finalization of Work Program                                      September 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997
- Mid-Term Review                                                   December 1996
- Finalization of listitutional Set-up of the Network               December 1996
- Completion of Progress Reports                                    June and December of each year
I/ Some to be done under Cofinanciers-procedures



Ann% I I
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS REHABILlTATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT (CREP)
Key Monitoring indicators Reflecting the Network's Yearlv Progress
(To be agreed dunng negotations)
1994-95   1995-96   1996-97   1997-98    1998-99
Number of CREPs                                                79        101        124        134         142
Volume of Savings (CFAF mitlion)                            1,070      1,780      2,885     4,134       5,698
Nunber of depositors                                       27,000    42,200    65,000    88,000    113,000
Loan to deposit ratio (X)                                      iS         25         40         50         50
Loan recovery rate                                           97.5       97.5      97.5       97.5        97.5
Operating costs of developing CREPs (CFAF million)             83         82         87         46         35
Profit of viable CREPs (CFAF million)                          20         43        124        188        245
Total cost of OJ and USRs (CFAF million)                      731        816        860       543         550



N  MALI                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BURKINA  FASO
GUINEA"   ,,                                              (1    v         IO/                                                                                            0
G                                                       1
M ),' r,                                                                  I                                                                        \
M ~~~~~~~~A  L    I    \0  r? z                          ,~                   ----t2                                                *1
't_ < s q J<%  U R K  N                                                A     ~                         F-  
t*/ > To   +.  §           -->^a<.          ,  2    NZ7/ ,¼ !'-' ~          t
LIBERIA     ~           'A                                               ¼          RI111000
1¼4     / O0E0N0E6t/   °t                                              5  ' g           07 '  A  --- _                           S  _\_____ 
c6TE D'IVOIRE ~       ~         ~        'I~                                  '~~~
0  CENWL MANAGEMENTC                 /00000           - 0 
0     R0L DELEGATION OF TM CREP NOVII                         /          //
GUIN EA           &.   o57 )                      /\          <K -x 91 Ae N~  /  NJ   Af            ¼          o
S   s   s     PREFE     CAPrAL                                       SENEGAL;/        __E           
-¼                 ¼       - A                                                           ¼   fl r t lo,            
7      o                  '2       '        ,   /  'N,            NoOoooooOo,oogI      ";  ___        _'-. - 
< otO-Oh / _-T / /4~~~~~~~~~~'                                             T                                      \f76tA -  2  tm_ -  
o,                                                             C-~r              \      IW<_ ->  ,_ ¼  /) /o e -   - O 
¼      PCU C AP \TA
'Ir.       .¼ .A ~('                                                                      , pm                                                              .
COTE D'IVOIRE BOUDAIE
PRQJE  DE  Erf, ABILTATI   DENATISSES RURALARESD'PRN/                                  
E1r DE PRET  ICREPJ                                         -, _~' _                                                           U fAUHT^N   I
rd   FREFECTLfRE C^?fT^Hi          i,,     SENEGAL        GUINE
---   SLfb ""'     ERfR r----4-4p4 4e.1                   LK<        AHE 0L'- \1                              0o.01      ¼        AN
V~~~~~~~~ _                                                                                                        ,              ¼UeNAFS
SIERRA  '       __
LEONE              jLG
Ar 4Rnc    9         'xY      ~~~COTE D'i'OIEr         GHANA      ?
O 50   100  ISO          2                                                  LI UBERIA        --
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    10, I                                   0 0 L.  .  
KILOMETEES                                                                                                     biiEi
@000000   E                                                        LE.0.
§~~~~~ A                                                          *-r wo"~    NN; d                                                      V ~             ; . f .
.hi            _¼                                                                   fli ,_d_  _  gA000000   ./W ____|9



