Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23844
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25970)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.5 MILLION (US$2.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR A
RURAL SAVINGS REHABILITATION AND PROMOTION PROJECT
03/14/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = CEAA
CFAF = USS 0.00135
US5 - CFAF 740
FISCAL YEAR
2002
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                  : Agence Fanqaise de Developpement (French Agency for Development)
AFISEF               : Acces des Femmes Ivoirienues aux Services Financiers
BCEAO                 Banque Centrale des Etats de IPAfrique de l'Ouest (Cenral Bank for West
African States)
BNDA                  Banque Nationale de Developpemnent Agricole (National Bank for Agriculturn
Development)
CIDA                  Canadian Agenicy for International Development
CICM                  Centre International du Credit Mutuel (French Center for Mutual Credit)
CMU                   Central Managenment Unit
COOPEC               : Cooperatives d' Epargne et de Credit (Savings and Loans Cooperatives)
FAC                  : Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FENACOOPEC            Fed&rafion Nationale des Cooperatives d'Epargne et de Credit (National
Federation of Savings and Loans Cooperatives)
PARMEC:              : Programme d'Appui a la Reglementation des Mutuelles d'Epargne et de Credit
RSIJU: Regional Support Unit
SDMI                  Sub-Directorate for Mutualist Institutions
SIGFIP                Systeme Integgr&e de Gestion des Finances Publiques
WAEMU                 Western African Econiomic and Monetary Union
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager/Director:  Joseph Baah-Dwoomoh
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Nicaise Ehoue



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COTE D'IVOIRE
RURAL SAVINGS
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievenent of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               6
6. Sustainability                                                                   7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 I 1
9. Partner Comments                                                                12
10. Additional Information                                                         17
Annex 1. Key Performance IndicatorslLog Frame Matrix                               18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project AD: P0012 10                                     |Project Name: RURAL SAVINGS
Team Leader: Nicaise Ehoue                                TL VUnit: AFTR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 22, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: RURAL SAVINGS                                  L/C/TF Number.: IDA-25970
Country/Department: COTE D'IVOIRE                                        Region: Aftica Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AY - Other Agriculture
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PC'D:  04/03/1992                             Effective:                     12il4/1997
Appraisal:  01/28/1993                                MTR: 10/31/1997            11/14/1997
Approval:  04/05/1994                              Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2001
Borrovwerilmplententitg ,4genc?:  GOVERNMENTIRURAL FIN.COOPS.
Other Partners:  French Agency for Development (AFD); Canadian Agency for Intemational
Development (CIDA)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo
C'ountty Manager:    Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                         Ted N'kodo
Team Leader at ICR:  Nicaise Ehoue                              Madani M. Tall
ICR Primarv Afuthor:  Nicaise Ehoue
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory. S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Lik¢ly, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=IIighly Unsatisfactory, Il=lfigh, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Ncgligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Developmentt Impactt: M
Bank Performnance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Tinie: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the Rural Savings and Loans Rehabilitation and Promotion Project was to
revitalize the COOPEC Network by rehabilitating the existing local COOPECs and assisting in the
creation of new ones where justified. To this end, the project was to capitalize on results achieved
during the pilot operation by: (a) completing the rehabilitation process; (b) providing technical



assistance and training to the COOPEC membership in accounting and basic financial
management; and (c) funding awareness campaigns designed to fully internalize the main
principles of the "mutualist" movement and ensure a strong sense of ownership from the
members. In order to ensure long term sustainability and financial independence of the movement,
project efforts were to focus on rural savings mobilization and financial management/discipline.
Due to remarkable results achieved during the pilot phase, the project objective was deemed
relevant: and filly achievable. At appraisal, the following key indicatoTs were determined for the
expansion of the network and its operations agreed upon by the Govemment, the network
movement and the donors:
(a)   Outreach. The number of local COOPECs was to reach 142 from 70, with a specific
emphasis on creation of rual COOPECs; membership was also to increase to 113,000 from
27,000.
(b)   Savings and loans. Savings were to increase fiom CFAF I billion to about 6 billion at
project completion. Outstanding loans portfolio was to increase from 150 million to CFAF 3
billion in the same period resulting from an increase of a loans to savings ratio due from 15% to
50%.
(c)   Financial autonomy. To achieve financial autonomy, operating costs were to be kept as
low as possible and even to decrease from CFAF 731 million to CFAF 550 million with a loan
recovery rate to be maintained at 97.5%.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective of the project was not revised during project implementation. A retrofitting exercise
undertaken at Mid-term Review in 1997 confirmed that the project objective was still relevant and
being achieved. However, due to the unexpected fast-growing trend of the network, the
monitoiable indicators were reset accordingly as indicated below:
(a)   Outreach. Total local COOPECs number was reset to 124 with membership to 155,000;
(b)   Savings and loans. Savings were to reach CFAF 14 billion i.e. more than double the
objective set during appraisal; loans recovery ratio was to be maintained at 97.5% and
outstanding loans were to reach about CFAF 6 billion; and
(c)   Financial autonomy. Operating costs were to be maintained at the same level as set
during plroject appraisal so that FENACOOPEC could keep up with financial discipline.
Additional expectations were also set for the network, although they were not formalized as
objectives:
(a)   the network was to promote and improve women access to savings and loan services; and
(b)    the network was also encouraged to finance small and medium entrepreneurs.
- 2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The project components and their costs were set as follows: (a) rehabilitation and Development of
Local COOPECs, USS1.7 million (for detailed audit and financial restructuring of the 70 existing
COOPECs, improvement of their accounting system, and the training of members and managers);
(b) support to Regional Service Units, US$6.1 million (to provide timely supervision and support
to rural COOPECs in their immediate geographic areas, to provide training to members, to ensure
that all prudential ratios are met, to monitor the loan portfolio's good standing, and to make sure
that important efforts at loan recovery are made); and (c) support to the Central Management
Unit, US$ 6.4 million (to support the CMU, provide the network with policy and operational
guidelines, manage COOPECs'excess liquidity, supervise their activities and RSUs' activities, and
finance the necessary technical assistance to the CMU and its investnents and operating costs).
Because of the complexity of the network's institutional architecture, capacity-building support
was to be the key element to achieve project objectives. This was due to be appropriately
addressed through a strong training program. Addressing the financial management issues was
also adequate to build confidence within the network.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised during project implementation.
3.5 QualitY at En tiy:
No quality-at-Entry Review (QAE) was perfonned on the project. However, the Government
took a precautionary step to avoid its involvement in the sector and promote the emergence of
private sector to take full responsibility of project implementation. Thus, the Government and
donors agreed to entrust the overall project management to Canadian and French technical
assistance, funded respectively by the Canadian Intemational Development Agency (CIDA) and
the French Agency for Development (AFD) to ensure quality. To prepare the network for
financial self-sufficiency, the Government tested a new approach by passing on IDA financing as a
loan to the network so it would not rely only on subsidy. Additional precautionary steps were
taken to discourage the network to receive lines of credit which, if ill-managed, could have
additional detrimental effects on the overall portfolio. Despite the fact that the proposed
institutional configuration of an APEX structure was deemed complex and was a possible source
of delay in decision-making process, the Government, FENACOOPEC and donors agreed to test
it during project implementation and improve on it as time went on.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievementof objective:
The output targets set at appraisal were quickly outpaced during the initial phase of
implementation, hence, new ambitious ones were projected at Mid-Term Review (MTR). These
were also rapidly exceeded as shown by monitorable indicators:
(a)   Outreach. Project outreach was impressive. W1Vhile, the number of local COOPECs
reached 110 nationwide, less than the projected figure of 142 at appraisal and 124 at MTR (due
- 3 -



to prudent management to avoid uncontrolled growth), this situation did not adversely affect
membership which grew exponentially from 27,000 to more than 300,000 at project completion;
(h)   Savings and Loans. Savings grew accordingly in the same period, from CFAF I billion to
about CFAF 27 billion, i.e.five times the targeted figure set at appraisal (CFAF 5.7 billion) and
twice the figure set at MTR. Outstanding loans followed the same pattern by increasing to 14
CFAF billion from CFAF 150 million;
(c)   Financial autonomy. Because outstanding loans portfolio increased dramatically as a
result of increasing savings and that loan recovery rate was maintained at 96% on average during
four years, there was no doubt that financial autonomy could have been quickly achieved even
with increasing operating costs. In fact, the financial autonomy rates (funding of total expenses by
internally generated resources) were 55% in 1997, 75% in 1998 and 82% in 1999 when more than
40 local banks were profitable and the network's profit amounted to CFAF 645 million.
Other impacts. For the first time in C6te d'Ivoire, more than 300,000 people from rural and
urban areas have had access to financial services, thanks to the project's actions. The project has
also coniributed, to some extent, to institutional capacity building based on training programs for
the network's members, Board and project unit staff in accounting, management information
system, financial control. Under a specific CIDA-funded operation (AFISEF), the project
promoted also a greater participation of women (about 10,000) in income-generating activities.
Overall, women constitute currently one fourth of the network's total membership.
However, there were also negative impacts resulting from the difficulties: (a) in managing
exponential growth which generated high operating costs; and (b) in stopping aggressive lending
practices in light of increasing of savings that the management was eager to transform into loans
with the hope that this would help the network achieve rapid sustainability. The inability to deal
with these difficulties resulted in high rates of loans delinquencies. The deficit of the 2000 fiscal
year amounted to 1.4 billion CFAF.
4.2 Outputs bY components:
Rehabilitation of Local Cooperative Loans and Savings Component produced mixed results.
On the one hand, important progress has been made in setting up an effective institutional
architecture of the network. Thus, each local COOPEC was able to establish its own
democratically elected Board of Directors, its credit and surveillance committee with its general
assembly which met on a regular basis. Efforts were also made, particularly in the last two years,
to improve the financial status of COOPECs with several actions including a new accounting
system based on the PARMEC law which regulates the decentralized financial institutions in the
West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU). More than 35 local COOPECs,
accounting for the bulk of operations, have been computerized; financial management has also
continuously been strengthened by an increased frequency of internal controls and systematic
reconciliation between the local COOPECs, the regional services and the central management
unit.
On the other hand, inadequate inflow of funds to the network resulting from insufficient
knowledge of donor's procedures did not permit the network to get access to all the available
-4 -



donor resources in order to implement a strong training program and awareness campaigns. As a
result, the involvement of the different institutional bodies of the network in decision making were
inefficient. Moreover, aggressive lending practices in a sluggish economic environment during the
last two years of project implementation led to huge delinquencies which could threaten the
network's existence if drastic actions are not quickly taken to restructure the network.
Support to Regional Services Units (RSU). The performance of this component was
unsatisfactory. The regional units relied heavily on the central unit in their day-to-day work.
Control, inspection and training, their core activities were insufficiently implemented because the
RSU were understaffed and lacked capacity in accounting/financial management. This was partly
the reason for some embezzlements that occurred at local COOPECs. The situation slightly
improved over the last two years of project implementation with the recruitment of new and well
trained inspectors and credit officers posted at regional offices with clear terms of reference. It is
expected that, their efforts will pay off in the future.
Support to the Central Management Unit (CMU). Performance achieved was mixed.
FENACOOPEC, the apex organization, envisaged at appraisal was established and was fully
operational after MTR. A National Committee for network surveillance was also set up to ensure
financial discipline. To achieve a rapid financial sustainability, the general assembly of
FENACOOPEC approved an annual contribution fee (CFAF 1200) to network development.
However, the Board of Directors relied too heavily on the CMU for decision making. The latter
took advantage of the Board's weakness to make, very often, inadequate decisions. This led to
frequent tensions between the CMU Board and the Board of Directors. Surprisingly, in the
euphoria of booming savings, FENACOOPEC Board and the CMU agreed to loosen conditions
to loan accessibility. As a result, excessive overdue loans were registered in the last two years of
project implementation. FENACOOPEC also faced major problems due to: (i) a high turn over of
managers (four managers of CMU recniited in six years of project implementation); (ii) a
concentration of power at the CMU level at the expense of local COOPECs; and (iii) some
inappropriate governance practices.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project was designed to be an instrument for institution building which, at the operational
level, would address the problems of absence of formal or semi-formal rural finance institutions.
The project's impact on beneficiaries' financial revenues could not be evaluated, and no economic
analysis was undertaken at appraisal. Consequently, no economic analysis was attempted at
project completion.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No overall financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal nor for the ICR.
4.5 lnstitutionbal development impact:
Despite its fragile state and a difficult quest for achieving financial self-sufficiency, several
institutional development impacts can be noted. FENACOOPEC is now a common feature in the
microfinance environment and provides financial services to a large number of Ivorians who are
members of microfinance institutions. FENACOOPEC has benefited from the project by
- 5-



developing its organization to plan, monitor and lead the savings and loans cooperatives in Cote
d'lvoire. It has also greatly contributed to build the African microfinance alliance which is housed
at its headquarters in Abidjan. In addition, the project has contributed to build local capacity in
decentralized financial services. As a result, FENACOOPEC is now fully managed by national
staff.
With mDre than 300,000 members, 1 10 local COOPECs, CFAF 27 billion of savings and CFAF
14 billion of outstanding loans, FENACOOPEC is the most expanded network in Cote d'Ivoire
and will be the leading decentralized financial institution in the West African Economic and
Monetaiy Union.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
.5.1 Factors outside the control oJ government or implementing agenlcy:
Following factors tenmporarily impeded project implementation:
(a)   lhe collapse of world price of commodities severely impaired farners'abilities to repay
loans in the rural areas.
(b)   ihe lingering political and social instability which exacerbated economic downturn and led
to the suspension of disbursements of Cate d'Ivoire.
.5.2 Factors generally sudject to government conitrol:
Due to earlier Government failure interference in managing former COOPECs, the new project
manageiLnent was totally entrusted to a unit consisting of staff with experience in private sector
development and to international partners. However, because of its responsibility to oversee the
financial sector as a whole, and to ensure the enforcement of the PARMEC Law (which regulates
decentralized financial institution in the WAEMU zone), the Ministry of Economy and Finance
and BCE_AO (the Central Bank) was to be regularly informed of project progress. In light of this,
a Goveriment official presided over the project's steering committee without influencing the
decision. making process. However, the Govermment and the Central Bank failed to regularly
control, supervise and enforce the PARMEC law. This failure meant that decisions contrary to
procedures under the PARMEC law, were made by the CMU and FENACOOPEC putting the
network in jeopardy.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Several factors impeded the project implementation agency, namely:
(a) a high turn over of project managers and financial managers from the CMU was
detrimental to decision-making. During six years, four project unit managers were recruited. This
situation was aggravated by disputes between the Canadian and the French technical assistance as
to who should manage the project unit;
-6 -



(b)    Inability of the CMU to convince the Board of Directors and the General Assembly to
enforce internal rules. Although there were ample opportunities to detect warning signs of future
problems, including the aide-memoire by IDA and donor supervision missions, FENACOOPEC
management had difficulties to persuade its Board of Directors and its Annual General Assembly
to take the necessary steps to halt the increasing trend of overdue loans, or to close down the
COOPECs whose capital bases have eroded;
(c)   Because, performance was highly satisfactory in the early years of project implementation,
FENACOOPEC prepared a more accelerated expansion plan, not taking into account the full
implications of the resulting costs and requirements on human capacity. The need to develop
competence of manpower through training and experience was not fully taken into account.
While a comprehensive training plan was prepared at the early stage of project implementation, it
was not totally implemented; and
(d)   The CMU was quickly overwhelmed by rapid growth and had difficulty to envision the
network long term development.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project cost was estimated at US$15.8 million at appraisal with US$0.8 million to be financed
by beneficiaries. The remained was shared among IDA (US$2.2 million), the French Development
Agency-AFD (US$6.5 million), the French Fund for Aid and Cooperation-FAC (US$2 million),
the Canadian Agency for International Development-CIDA   (US$3.5 million) and the
Government of Cote d'Ivoire (US$0.8 million).
At completion, the total project cost was estimated at US$12.85 million. IDA disbursement rate
stood at 68% resulting partly from the fact that the country was under suspension six months
before project closing and thereafter. AFD's disbursement rate was estimated at 67%. Only
CIDA achieved a disbursement rate of about 99%.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainabilitv rating:
Sustainability of the network has always been the key issue constantly raised during the project's
design and implementation. However, the network is currently confronted with difficulties
resulting from aggressive lending practices which have generated high rate of loan delinquencies
which may delay its financial autonomy. In fact, overdue rate dramatically soared from 4% in
1997 to 10% in 1998 and to more than 37% at project completion, resulting in a deficit of CFAF
1.4 billion in fiscal year 2000. Although more than 50% of overdue loans have been secured by
membership's savings, the current situation is a concern, particularly at a time of sluggish
economic environment compounded with political instability. A recent calculation showed a
Subsidy Dependency Index (SDI) for the fiscal year 2000 (71.4%). This meant that if
FENACOOPEC had adopted an interest rate of 31.2%, the network could have operated without
subsidies. This rate cannot be used in CMte d'Ivoire because the usury law considers an interest
rate above 27% as usury interest rate in the WAEMU zone. It is clear that the network will
continue to be dependent on subsidies for some time. However, the fact that no donor agency
- 7 -



committed. itself to provide further assistance to the network, will certainly exacerbate its financial
problems.
For the above reasons, we have rated the sustainability as unlikely. While the entire network can
probably not be sustained as is, we believe that a good part of the local COOPECs will be
sustainable. In fact the potential for network sustainability exists as proven by fimancial autonomy
indicators achieved during the first four years of project implementation (55% in 1997, 75% in
1998 and 82% in 1999). Moreover, outreach is still untapped despite FENACOOPEC's annual
growth rale of 34%, given the number of Ivoirians who do not have access to fonnal financial
services. E]ven since project completion, the financial performance appears to be improving.
Tlle sustainability of FENACOOPEC essentially lies on its strategy to position itself vis-a-vis its
local and urban COOPECs. It is possible that FENACOOPEC will let some time lapse before it
creates new local COOPECs and maintains its current size to make the network more
manageable. However, the network could run the risk of generating overcrowded and
unmanageable urban COOPECs with inadequate services. Urban and semi-urban COOPECs have
dramatically increased to represent 85% of membership and 87% of total savings and loans.
However, experience shows that managing urban COOPECs is difficult due to their lack of social
pressure. This is why the current management is determined to "professionalize" them by
recruiting experienced credit officers in those COOPECS and reinforce their capacity in
microfinance. However, the sustainability of FENACOOPEC greatly depends on how well it can
recover its overdue loans and return to active and secure lending at a level that provides enough
income to cover expenses. In its effort to rehabilitate the network, the management should make
quick decisions to disaffiliate the inefficient local COOPECs from the network . It is essential that
donors continue to support this effort.
Because of its high development potential, the Bank has strongly recommended that the network
undertake an institutional and financial audit in the context of a sound restructuring which could
attract donors for further assistance. The Bank is also encouraging the Ivorian Government to
design a national strategy for decentralized financial institutionis as an effective instrument to
combat poverty particularly in rural areas.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Despite thcir fragile status, local COOPECs are still providing regular financial services to their
members. During a recent Fund/Bank mission, the issue of FENACOOPEC's overdue loans were
raised. Ihe network promised to take stringent measures for its rehabilitation. The terms of
reference for a restructuring study has recently been sent to the donors for comments. In the
meantime, recovery rate of loans for fiscal year 2001 is expected to reach 94%, which is a
substantial improvement that could bring down the overall overdue loan rate from 37% to 22%.
- 8 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification is rated satisfactory. The Bank's staff was
convinced that the Government was committed to carrying on with its enabling policies in the
sector and to allowing the network to develop as a private organization. The project was clearly
an important part of the Government's strategy to revitalize the rural financial sector, after the
collapse of the Agricultural Development Bank (BNDA). However, the preparation and appraisal
team did not foresee the tremendous potential and needs for financial services in the country, as
well as the need for greater sulpervision of the financial processes. This explains why projections
were quickly outpaced. More specifically, project implementation indicators might have better
prepared the network to meet future requirements, for instance, by reserving more funds for
training, or by recognizing the need for internal surplus formation to cover the network's
expansion.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the project is rated marginally satisfactory. The Bank carried out annually one to
two supervision missions jointly with the co-financiers. Not only did this favor a real skill mix in
the composition of the supervision teams, but also provided an opporttunity to share experiences.
In addition, the bilateral agencies sent in regularly, missions to look into areas of specific interests.
Day-to-day problems were quickly resolved due to the location of the Team Leaders in the field.
The supervision teams were however not able to influence inappropriate decisions to rapidly
expand the loan portfolio or to get the Ministry of Economy and Finance to enforce the
PARMEC law.
7.3 Overall Bankpetfornmance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory although assistance in resolving loan delinquency
problems has failed to produce concrete outcomes because the private status of the network made
it difficult for the Bank to intervene.
Borrowver
7.4 Pr eparation:
The borrower's performance in project preparation was satisfactory. The borrower began its
preparation process by building up on a successful pilot project implemented 18 months earlier.
The project was designed based on an effective participatory process involving all stakeholders
and four major donors: the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the French
Agency for Development (AFD), and the French Cooperation (FAC) of the Ministry of
Cooperation and the Bank. It was also the first agricultural project ever negotiated in Cote
d'Ivoire due to the commitment and the determination of the Government to make it a fast track
project.
-9-



7.5 Go.ernntent inmplementation pe.i']rmance:
Although the Government met the financial and legal covenants requirements, its implementation
performance was rated unsatisfactory for the following reasons:
(a)   The: Sub-Directorate of the Mutualist Institutions (SDMI) in charge of supervising
FENACOOPEC did not perform adequately due to insufficient trained human resources and
equipment. Moreover, the Government did not take the appropriate steps to improve the
ill-functioning legal and judicial system which made difficult and even impossible to take legal
action against delinquent borrowers;
(b)   Due to the political instability faced by the country during the last two years, the President
of the Project's Steering Committee was removed and not replaced until the end of the project
despite the fact that the Government's attention was repeatedly drawn to the situation.
Consequently, the Steerinig Comnittee stopped meeting during this crucial moment. When the
rate of overdue loans started rising in 1998, SDMI did not respond accordingly despite the threat
of suspension issued by the Bank.
(c)   To foster resource allocation in C6te d'Ivoire, at the recommendation of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), the Government put in place a new financial management system
(SIGFIP).  However, the system, deemed too cumbersome, slowed down the pace of
disbursement and reduced resource inflow to the project.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
The overall performance of the implementation agency has been rated unsatisfactory despite its
tremendous achievement in outreach and savings. This achievement was tarnished by the high
ratio of overdue loans in the last two years. There were also shortcomings attributable to
FENACOOPEC and the project management unit resulting from: (i) the unrealistic enthusiasm
for expanding the network outreach; (ii) and the inability to make difficult decision quickly
enough to avoid major problems, stemming from the nature of cooperative organization. The
project suffered from the conflicting relationship between the two major technical assistance. 'As
a result, misunderstandings were frequent between the project management team and
FENACOOPEC on decision making. This situation deteriorated when the project manager, on a
short notice, resigned for unknown reasons.
Financial rnanagement was one of the biggest challenges that the project management team faced.
Initially management attention was directed at increasing membership, savings and loans delivery
given the level of performance indicators. In fact, the former management teams found AFD and
Bank procedures (procurement and disbursement) too culmbersome and hence were not even
asking for reimbursement of costs. As a result, the disbursement rate did really take off only two
years before project completion While audits were regularly undertaken and submitted on time,
recommendations were not always implemented in a timely manner. After the recruitment of a
new mana;ger with a solid background in financial management (a former financial manager of an
important transportation company), financial management started to improve.
- 10-



7.7 Overall Bo7rrower performatice:
Overall borrower performance was rated unsatisfactory albeit progress was achieved, as indicated, in the
earlier phase of project implementation. However, there is plenty room for improvement if the structuring
plan is quickly designed and implemented.
8. Lessons Learned
A number of lessons need to be learned from the implementation of the project. The most
important ones are itemized below. Many lessons are positive and can contribute to appropriate
formulation of future policies for the decentralized financial institutions. Other lessons have a
negative message, which, if wisely taken into account, can also be constructively utilized in future
policy formulation:
(a)   The exponential increase of network memberships, savings and loans, has far proven the
existence of huge demands for financial services in the urban and the rural areas that have yet to
be met. Hence, there are ample opportunity for microfmance development if the Government
provides an enabling environment and designs a clear strategy based on decentralized financial
institutions as an effective instrument for its poverty reduction program.
(b)   Like the other Networks of the sub-region, FENACOOPEC faces a big challenge in
transforming savings into secure loans and ensuring financial autonomy and sustainability.
Experience shows that only good governance, appropriate supervision by monetary and economic
officials, adequate legal framework and enforcement of the rules of law can help solve the
problem of growth and sustainable development. Project implementation has so far demonstrated
that in this area, there is work to de done in Cote d'Ivoire. But, the country has the potential to do
it if helped adequately.
(c)   Savings and loans institutions perform inefficiently and unsustainably if they are too
centralized. They generate high operating costs. This is the case in FENACOOPEC where most
of the decisions were made at the apex level, hence difficult to be implemented locally. Moreover,
the lack of a management system based on each local COOPECs's specificity contributed, to some
extent, to the high increase of overdue loans. A case in point is the local bank in Yopougon where
total membership has reached 30,000 while only 100 regularly participate at the General
Assembly. In this particular case, where the social fabric is loose, professionalization of
COOPECs could help. These shortcomings will be adequately tackled with the financial and
institutional audit to be undertaken soon.
(d)   Unrealistic expectations are quickly born by early success which are difficult to manage
particularly when appropriate human resource management skills are lacking. Human resource
management is one of the weakest functions in most credit union networks. Moreover. power
struggle between elected members and paid staff are frequent most of the time and sometimes
results in power abuse. As the network grows, relations between partners become increasingly
conflicting For instance, compensation of elected members also becomes a constant issue,
particularly when profit is made, with no consideration for the fragility of the network.
- 11 -



FENACOOPEC is trying to mitigate these problems by making social interactions, a central
element of its new development strategy.
(e)   The project implementation has revealed the need for the Government to design an overall
strategy ito tackle the issues of decentralized financial institutions in CMte d'Ivoire. Since the
project just started addressing financial demands of the rural populations, it is important that rural
finance constitute the major component of this strategy. The Bank will encourage the Government
to address specifically the issue of supervision of the network and respect for the provisions of the
PARMEC law in the Government's letter of development policy in the context of the Economic
Recovery Credit and during the forthcoming financial sector review.
(f)   EDIlow-up. FENACOOPEC development started well; however, economic conditions in
the country and uncontrolled growth have led to network sustainability being threatened. Donors
abandoning support for the network will not help at this crucial period. It will be therefore
important to find means of support and active participation. On the Bank side, the Rural Land
Management and Infrastructure Development Project (PNGTER) or the forthcoming National
Capacity Building Program could be used as instruments to provide some support. The decrease
of overdue loans rate to 22%  from 37%, recently reported augurs prospects for 'further
improvernent.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implenzenting agency:
The borrower's completion report, prepared by FENACOOPEC, highlights the achievement of the
project, underscores the Bank performance and draws important lessons. The report has been
summarized. The full report in French has been filed in the project files.
9.1 Proiect Obiective:
The main objective of the project was to rehabilitate local COOPECs in the perspective of
ensuring their adequate development, by taking stock of results achieved during the pilot phase,
through:
(a)   building up an efficient institutional network based on a deep financial restructuring
through rigorous loan recovery strategy and the closing of inefficient COOPECs;
(b)   providing technical assistance and training to local COOPECs' managers and members in
accounting and financial management to streamline management of local COOPECs; and
(c)   setting up awareness and promotion campaigns to: (i) restore trust, insisting on the
privately-led management base of the network; (ii) avoid any political initerference, help members
to assiniilate the basic mutualist principles; and (iii) focus on rural savings mobilization.
- 12 -



9.2 Adonted AnpDroach
The approach adopted by FENACOOPEC to implement the project consisted of:
(a)   creating six regional units to support the local COOPECs by providing the adequate
training, technical assistance and promoting the network in their respective areas;
(b)   providing the needed support to the central management unit in charge of designing the
strategic and operational directives, managing the excess liquidity of the network, supervising and
monitoring the regional units and local COOPECs; and
(c)   building up the capacity of national staff through technical assistance.
The project was co-financed by the French Development Agency (AFD) and the Canadian
Agency for International Development (CIDA). Monitoring and evaluation activities were
entrusted to a National Steering Committee consisting of the Ministries of Finance and
Agriculture, the Central Bank (BCEAO), Donors, and the elected Board of Directors.
9.3 Main results achieved.
Implementation of the project started in an enabling economic environument marked by the
realignment of the exchange rate and the privatization of the network, conducive to creativity and
increasing autonomy.
Marketing Achievement
Although the number of local COOPECs projected at appraisal was not achieved, the network
growth was considerable given the increasing trend of some monitorable indicators such as
savings and membership. Thus, CFAF 27 billion were collected for CFAF 5 billion projected and
membership reached 300,000 compared to 113,000 expected at project closing. These results
achieved in a short time frame is a testimony that trust is being rebuilt and that a financial
institution is also being built to meet huge membership's demands for financial services. However,
this performance, deemed positive, calls for few observations:
(a)   There was not a clear orientation of the network development between the urban (more
used to financial services and with high savings potential) and the rural areas (less secure after the
collapse of the National Agriculture Development Bank). The creation of rural banks was more
directed toward the "sous-prefectures" with higher agricultural potentials which in fact are
considered as urban centers.
(b)   However, this marketing orientation to attract savings was not supported by a clear
strategy    for the urban areas where membership demands for loans were very complex and
required more experienced staff for loan analysis. Thus, credit policy originally designed for the
rural areas was bluntly applied in the urban areas. This situation compounded with aggressive
lending practices aimed at increasing loan to deposit ratio rapidly led to an increasing rate of
- 13 -



delinquency.
Financial Achievement
From 199S to 1999, the financial achievement was built on the marketing one. Incomes generated
by the network resulting from a high loan recovery rate were far sufficient to cover operating
costs of the central management unit and part of the regional units. However, the financial status
of the network quickly deteriorated thereafter due to the following factors: (i) the substantial
provisions made by the network resulting from  high rate of delinquency;  (ii) the
socio-economic-political environment which had a negative impact on all restructuring efforts;
(iii) and the suspension of donors' disbursement which adversely affected the financial status of
the network.
Achievement of Project Objective
The objective of rehabilitating the COOPECs was deemed satisfactory in the sense that the project
contributed to the reduction of loan delinquency rate to 5% in 1995-1999 from 58% before the
upward trend began for the reasons indicated above. However, it is worth noting that the project
did not take enough action to restore the financial equilibrium of the network which was already
in bad shape, despite the availability of resources to capitalize each local COOPEC. In general
terms, no move was made to enforce the PARMEC law.
Although efforts were made to train most of elected members, membership at the grass root level
did not acquire the basic knowledge conducive to an effective management of their COOPECs.
When training was held, sessions did not even cover the basic principles of the PARMEC law
which remained unknown by most of the COOPECs' managers.
The awareness campaigns did, to some extent, contribute to restore trust among potential
membership. However, there was not a dynamic communication program which could have led
to dissemination of the mutualist spirit and the creation of a cooperative base that the urban areas
badly neecled.
Problems Encountered during Project Implementation
The instituitional design of the project, in several accounts, did not efficiently contribute to its
implemeniation as described below:
(a)   while co-financing of the project was an excellent opportunity to foster skill mix,
co-financiers share in project financing was not adequately fixed up at project effectiveness since
donor approaches were not always the same. This was a source of confusion which delayed
disbursement and led to a financial disequilibrium of the network. Moreover, because the Bank
financing was a loan rather than a subsidy, it should have been devoted to long term investment
instead of financing operating costs to avoid lingering deficit;
- 14 -



(b)   the intervention of two technical assistance agencies led to a non- hannonized network
development with antagonism and misunderstandings which created confusing and sometimes
conflicting messages and resulted in high turn over of project staff;
(c)   the network was forced at times to use its own resources to finance investment, operating
and technical assistance costs due to the fact that disbursement claims were rejected because they
did not conform with the donors' procedures;
(d)   in most cases, the strategic orientation of the network was not submitted to the board's
approval before being adopted, which showed the predominance of the management unit over the
board of directors;
(e)   the evolution of the legal environment with the promulgation of the PARMEC Law was
not sufficiently taken into account in the strategic management of the project; and
(f)   While an appropriate monitoring and evaluation system was designed, it was not
adequately implemented to streamline the network development particularly in the financial
management area. The same pattern was observed in relation to the distribution between rural
and urban local banks whose creation should have been approved by the steering committee.
Specific Problems of Overdue Loans and their Recovery
In the last two years of project implementation, the financial status of the network deteriorated
dramatically due to gradual increase of overdue loans. Loan delinquency rate which was 5% in
1997, rose to 29% in 1999 and reached a record of 37% in 2001. The deterioration of the
portfolio was the result of many factors already indicated above, among which two most
important ones were: the difficult socio-political-economic environment in Cote d'Ivoire and the
aggressive lending policies adopted by the network when savings dramatically rose.
Following the last supervision mission which recommended that rigorous actions be taken to solve
the loans default problems, FENACOOPEC established a restructuring plan to reduce the overdue
rate from 37% to 10% at the end of fiscal year 2001 (December 2001). However, due to the
economic environment which has not improved substantially, so far, and the difficulty to enforce.
regulation in Cote d'Ivoire, little progress has been made.
FENACOOPEC is very concemed now about its future. After having contributed to build an
institution with more than 300,000 members, 110 local COOPECs, CFAF 27 billion of savings
collected and CFAF14 billion of loans, the network's sustainability is threatened at a time when of
donors' assistance has stopped and financial autonomy has not been achieved. However,
FENACOOPEC is now making tremendous internal efforts to recover its overdue loans whose
rate has decreased lately from 37% to 22%. In this new context, FENACOOPE, it is worth noting
that the network will still need strong donors' support.
- 15 -



Bank Performance
The netwDrk greatly appreciated the Bank intervention and judged satisfactory its performance for
many reasons: (a) the presence of the Task Team Leaders in the field helped create an intensive
working relationship. The Bank did not hesitate to call the attention of the Board, project
management team and project staff to problems they arose. Supervision missions were regularly
undertaken and brought new insights in project implementation. However, the network found the
Bank's p:rocedures too cumbersome and inflexible. The network was surprised by the Bank's
decision to close the project while more than 30% of the credit was not disbursed.
ConCusiUDn. A better institutional set up and a strong steering committee could have helped the
network avoid most of the problems encountered during project implementation. However, the
network still believes that, with the vigorous actions being undertaken, it can overcome the
current crisis. The network still need donor's support to achieve its objective.
(/,) Cofinariciers:
French Algency for International Development
While technical and marketing perfornance of FENACOOPEC was remarkable in terms of
outreach and savings, its poor financial outcome and its poorly developed cooperative
environment is a testimony of a profound crisis.
FENACCIOPEC has become an important financial institution in five years. However, the
economic, and monetary authorities (Ministry of Economic and Finance) and (BCEAO) did not,
seriously, pay attention to the high rate of loan delinquency which is threatening membership's
savings.  InI order to maintain sustainability of the network, vigorous actions should be
immediately taken by the Government and the network.
Canadian Agency for International Development
The purpose of the Canadian intervention was to contribute to the consolidation of the network
by providing technical assistance. The expected outcome of the project was the financial
consolidation of the system as well as the renewed confidence of members. The Canadian Agency
for Intemnational Development questioned the level of satisfaction of beneficiaries on its
assistance. In fact, harmonizing the French and Canadian technical assistance's approaches were
difficult and did not produced the expected outcome in managing the network.
The Canadian assistance started in 1993, one year before the Caisse Francaise de Developpement
(AFD) involvement in the project and one year and a half before the Bank's credit effectiveness.
The Canadian assistance was also extended for 18 months after the end of their contractual
engagement between C1DA and the Government.
The assessment of the project outcome by CIDA is mixed. On the positive side, CIDA
recognizes that objectives set by the project were achievable and that FENACOOPEC regained its
national leadership in the savings and lending operations. Nevertheless, the network had to pay
high price for it accelerated growth, preventing it form keeping track of the financial and
governance indicators. For the Ivoirians leaders of the FENACOOPEC, fast growing network
- 16-



was considered an achievement but for experts, the network was running the inherent risks of a
system that grew fast and did not have the managerial capacity to foster sustainability.
In trying to reduce risks, CIDA joined with the Bank and the Agence Fran9aise de
Developpement (AFD) in advising FENACOOPEC to review it credit policy as well as its internal
auditing procedures. Unfortunately, the project management unit was reluctant to slow down the
accelerated growth and took a long time before developing a new credit policy, recruiting and
training credit agents and implementing credit policy. This lack of discipline led to the increase of
outstanding loans that will probably be difficult to recover if no appropriate actions are taken
immediately
CIDA also joined AFD and the Bank fonnally and infonrmally to point out to the attention of the
Govermnent and the Central Bank the risks to the network of such a high rate of loan
delinquencies. However, until the closing date no concrete actions were taken.
(c) Other partners (ATGOs/private sectot):
'NA.
10. Additional Information
NA.
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndlcatorflMatrix                  Projected In last PSR               ActualULatest EstHmate
A. Outreach                          A. Outreach                          A. Outreach
- Expected no. of local banks:        Local banks: 114                     No. Local Banks
79 in 1996; 101 in 1997; 124 in 1998; 113 in                              92 in 1996; 98 in 1997; 108 in 1998; 116 in
1999; and 124 in 2000                                                      1999; 114 in 2000; 114 in 2001.
A. Outreach                          A. Outreach                           A. Outreach
- Expected membership:               Expected rnembeship: 290,000          - membership:
27,000 in 1995; 42,000 in 1996; 65,000 in                                  27,000 in 1995; 77,501 in 1996; 108,000 in
1997; 124,001) in 1998; and 155,000 in 1999.                               1997; 164,486 in 1998; and 237,000 in 1999;
290,849 in 2000; 304,000 in 2001.
B. Savings mobilization              B. Savings mobilization               B. Savings mobilization
Expected volume of savings (CFAF million); Expected volume of savings (CFAF million); - Volume of savings (cfaf million): 4,717 in
1,070 in 1995; 1,780 in 1996; 2,885 in 1997; 30,000                        96; 7,809 in 1977; 14,240 in 98; 24,546 in
9,882 in 1998; and 14,278 in 1999.                                         1999; 25,308 in 2000; 27,100 in 2001
C.Expected loan recovery rate to exceed  C.Expected loan recovery rate to exceed  C.loan recovery rate:98% in 1995; 94% in
97.5% at all times.                  80%.                                  1996; 95.4% in 1997; 95.8% in 1998;
89.12%; 70.99% in 2000; 64% in 2001
D.Expected loan to Deposit Ratio     D.Expected loan to Deposit Ratio      D.Expected loan to Deposit Ratio
Targets: 15% in 1995; 25% in 1996; 40% in 50%                              Targets: 15% in 1995; 27.14% in 1996;
1997; 40% in 1998 and 50% thereafter.                                      31.49% in 1997; 55.58% in 1998 and
68.50% in 99; 48.78% in 2000; 48% in 2001
Output Indircators:
Indicator/Ulatrix                  Projected in last PSR                ActuaUlLatest Estimate
Local Banks                          114                                   110
Regional support unit                6                                     6
Central Unit                         1                                     1
End of project
- 18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
A. Rehabilitation of Local COOPECs                  1.70           1.20           70.5
B. Support to Regional Service Units                6.10           5.25           69.7
C. Support to Central Management Unit               6.40           6.10           85.9
Total Baseline Cost                                14.20          12.55
Physical Contingencies                             0.30           0.10            33
Price Contingencies                                1.20           0.20            16
Total Project Costs            15.70          12.85
Interest dunng construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required             15.70          12.85
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.16         0.00         0.33         0.49
(0.00)       (0.16)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.16)
2. Goods                     0.40         0.20         0.20         2.00         2.80
(0.40)       (0.20)       (0.20)        (0.00)      (0.80)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.84         6.88         7.72
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.84)        (0.00)      (0.84)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.40         4.04         4.44
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.40)        (0.00)      (0.40)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.30         0.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.40          0.36         1.44         13.55       15.75
(0.40)       (0.36)       (1.44)        (0.00)      (2.20)
Note: Figure in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA credit
N.I.F: not IDA-financed.
- 19-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Exediue aegr                         Procurement Method
Expendliture Category       ICB           NCB           Other         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                        0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.16)       (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.16)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.40)         (0.00)        (0.40)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.10)         (0.00)        (0.10)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.16)       (0.50)         (0.00)       (0.66)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amotnts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Inclutdes civil wvorks and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office. training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Finaricing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Compornent      1      Appraisal Eslimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
WDA      Govt.     CoF.       ID.A      Go% t.   CoF.     IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Rch. of Local COOPECs    0.50      0.20      1.00      0.30      0.10      0.80    60.0   50.0   80.0
Support to Reg. Units    0.80      0.30      5.00      0.50      0.20     4.55     62.5   66.7   91.0
Support to Central Unit  0.90      0.30      5.50      0.70      0.25      5.15    77.8   83.3   93.6
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The project was designed to help building capacity of FENACOOPEC. The project impact in
revenue-generating activities of the final beneficiaries could not be evaluated, and no economic
analysis was prepared at appraisal. Correspondingly, no economic analysis was attempted at
project completion. Similarly, no overall financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal or for
the ICR.
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Proecil CNcle                No of Pei>ons aind SpeciallI          Perfotniance Raiiig
(e.g. 2 Econonnusis. I FNIS. etc  bIiplemenuinon  De%elopment
Nionh iYear   Count          Specialty                     Progre,s    Objectme
Identification/Preparation
06/05/92                    6   AE, FA, E, FS, RCS, MS            S            S
12/09/92                        AE, FA, E, FS, RCS, MS           S             S
Appraisal/Negotiation
02/22/93                    6   AE, E, FA. FS, RCS, MS           HS            S
Supervision
11/17/95                    3   RCS, AE, FS, TTA                 S             S
05/24/96                    3   RCS, AE, FS, TTA                  S            S
01/31/97                    3   RCS, AE, FS, TTA (and             S            S
representatives of french and
canadian cooperations)
Mid-Term Review             6   RCS, AE, FS, FMS, CS, FA, PS,     S            S
11/17/97                       DA, TTA, TM (and
representatives of french and
canadiani cooperations
09/20/98                    2   AE, RCS, TTA                      S            S
05/26/99                        AE; RCS, PS. DA,PA,FMS (and       S            S
represeantative of french and
canadiati
11/29/99                    6   AE. RCS, PS. DA, PA, fMS,        S             S
TTA (and representatives of
french and canadian
development)
01/27/01                    2   AE, TTA                           S            S
06/10/01                    8   AE, RCS, PS, PA,DA.FMS, AE,       S            S
PSDS, TTA (and representatives
of french and canadian
cooperation
ICR
07/2002                     S   AE, AE, RCS, PSDS, TTA            S            S
AE= Agricultural Economist; CS= Cooperative Specialist; DA= Disbursement Assistant; FA= Financial
Analyst; FS=:Financial Specialist; FMS = Financial Management Analyst; E= Economist; MS=
Microfinance Specialist; PA= Procurement Assistant; PS= Procurement Specialist; PSDS= Private Sector
Development Specialist; Rural Crediit Specialist; TM=Technical Manager; TTA= Task Team Assistant
- 22 -



(b) Staff:
-Stag of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latesl Esiimale
No. Staff weeks             USS ('000)
IdentificationiPreparation                                        80,000
Appraisal/Negotiation                                            120,000
Supervision                                                     360,000
ICR                                                              35,000
Total                                                           595,000
-23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(Il=ligh, SU=Substantial. M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
 Macro po.icies                         O H   OSUOM      * N   O NA
F Sector Policies                        0 H   0 SU O M   0 N   0 NA
N Phiysical                              0 H   O SU O M   O N   * NA
F2 Financial                             O H   OSUOM      O N   O NA
0 Institutional Developnient             0 H   O SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
M Environmental                          0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
Social
23 Poverty Reduction               0 H  O SUO M     0 N   0 NA
G (render                          O H  * SU O M    O N   O NA
M Other (Please specifyJ)          0 H  O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
Resettlment
P Private sector development             0 H   * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
I Puiblic sec tor managenient            0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
2 Other (Piease specifi')                0 H   0 SU *@ M  0 N   0 NA
Informal sector
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS='Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperforn7ance                               Rating
B Lending                                          OHS OS       OU    OHU
* Superv'ision                                     OHS *S       OU    OHU
F Overall                                          OJHS OS      O u   O HU
6.2 Borowverpemforniance                           Rating
F Preparation                                      OHS      S   O u   O HU
ER Government implementation perfin-mance          0 HS O s     0 U   0 HU
F Implenientation agencyperforniance               0 HS O S     0 U   0 HU
E Overall                                          OHS OS       * U   O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Development Credit Agreement 1994
2. Staff Appraisal Report 1993
3. Mid-Term Review Report 1997
4. ICR Mfissicn Report, December 2001
5. Borrower's Project Completion Report 2001
-26-



MALI
TNR ,¢J,  <+  <. -si?  56 S-g_ -  B UBURKINA  FASO     2
(   Msrigon  >  <_ Of awlr \  (I  T > -I 6Do  6  un0a;                         D
G~~~~~~~~~~6266       U    ONN  I  NOE AO(O  0 >  FFV R66666L0  3   -, -.,  vOOy.j
K- SH -d62 I662or\=\                   /                                       I ,
GUINEA            __6
R '.~                                         _ i _ 4  -  ogr > NDATIOI           N
RURA SAV<ING AND LO   - AN REHABNILTATO  N  *ROEC
PRO-ET DE REHABILITATION DE CASSES  E5 DE PA rGN
2 2  I'  -  ; . ' ' 3     -~ l' 1= 
66 N1    '-                                                               - -  _
! ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~    ~   ~   ~   - -.
ECTDE PRETVOIREPI
ET DE  PRET                          0626P                2206 -- -..; ,, 
CENTRAL M8ANAGEM ENT UNIT                                                 |
REGIONAL DELEGATION OF THE CREP NEIORK  I I _ _ 
rF PREFECtURE CAFITALS           'lr    _
SUB-PREFECTURE CAETL  
5U - SEPREFECTURE BOUNDARIES_
- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES_         _ 
I- ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        r - 0
,0 50        1 00   150    2L(l                        . , ,  ll 
KILOMETERSi



