Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2597 IVC
                       Development Credit Agreement
                  (Rural Savings and Loans Rehabilitation
                          and Promotion Project)
                                  between
                         REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 1, 1994
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2597 IVC
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has stated in a letter, dated November 18, 1993,
its policies and objectives and the modalities designed to foster rural
savings and loans development (the Rural Savings and Loans Development
Strategy);
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Francaise de
Developpement (CFD) a loan (the CFD Loan) in an amount equivalent to French
Francs 37,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the CFD Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and CFD;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC) a grant (the FAC Grant) in an amount equivalent
approximately to French Francs 12,000,000 to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the FAC Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and FAC;
      (E)   the Borrower intends to contract from Canadian International
Page  2
Development Agency (CIDA) a grant (the CIDA Grant) in an amount equivalent
to Can $4,700,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the CIDA Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and CIDA; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (b)   "CMU" means the Central Management Unit of the Project to be
established pursuant to Section 6.01(e) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "ANAC-CI" means Association Nationale des CREP et COOPEC de Cote
d'Ivoire, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 60-
315 dated September 21, 1960, and its Statutes dated April 9, 1993.
      (d)   "CREPs" mean Caisses Rurales d'Epargne et de Pret, the rural
savings associations and cooperatives of the Borrower, created and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 77-332 dated June 1, 1977;
      (e)   "Network" means the network of CREPs in the following regions
of the Borrower's territory: Korhogo, Gagnoa, Bouake, Man, Abidjan-Est and
Abidjan-Ouest;
      (f)   "DRs" mean Delegations Regionales of the Network, regional
service units of the Network, in the following regions of the Borrower's
territory: Korhogo, Gagnoa, Bouake, Man, Abidjan-Est and Abidjan-Ouest;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (h)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ANAC-CI on behalf of the Network pursuant to
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Credit
Agreement;
      (j)   "Monitoring Committee" means the committee to be established
pursuant to Section 6.01(d) of this Agreement; and
      (k)   "CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, a public financial
institution of the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million five
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000).
Page  3
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in CAA on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each June 1 and December 1, commencing June 1, 2004
and ending December 1, 2033. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on December 1, 2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
Page  4
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project through its Ministry responsible
for finance with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and banking practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall for the purposes of making available its
contribution to the Project, open and maintain in its Treasury a separate
account in the name of the Project (the Project Account), make an initial
deposit of the equivalent of one hundred million CFAF (CFAF 100,000,000)
into such account and replenish it as and when required to ensure that, on
the first day of each calendar quarter during each year the Project is
executed, an amount sufficient to cover at least estimated expenditures
during such quarter shall be available to the Project.
      (d)   The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time under Categories (1) through (5) of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the Network through ANAC-
CI under a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ANAC-CI, under terms and conditions which shall be acceptable
to the Association, which shall include a service charge at the rate of
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount
of the proceeds withdrawn and outstanding from time to time and a 40 years
repayment period including a grace period of 10 years, the Network bearing
the cost of fluctuations in the currencies so relent to it.
      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Credit Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any provision
thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01
of the General Conditions, the Borrower and the Association shall carry out
a mid-term evaluation of the progress achieved in carrying out the Project
not later than December 31, 1996. The recommendations of such evaluation,
once approved by the Borrower and the Association, shall be implemented by
the Borrower with due diligence. The review shall cover, inter alia: (a) the
progress made in the development of the Network including its institutional
set-up; (b) the evaluation of the consultants' performance; and (c) overall
Project performance.
Page  5
      Section 3.04. For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall cause the CMU to submit to the Association: (a) not later
than June 30 of each year, for its comments, draft programs of operations
and budgets; (b) not later than September 30 of each such year, for its
final approval, revised programs of operations and budgets taking into
consideration comments made earlier by the Association. Said programs shall
include, inter alia: (a) a statement on progress achieved so far; (b) the
work program of each DR for the coming year; (c) a proposed timetable for
the opening and/or closing of CREPs; (d) draft annual training programs; and
(e) draft annual budgets.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the CMU to close down CREPs
that fail to become profitable after four years of operation.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account and the Project Account for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
                  out of the Special Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
Page  6
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Borrower's Law No. 77-332 of June 1, 1977, has been
modified, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
carrying out of the Project or the operations of the Network; and
      (b)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Rural Savings and Loans Development Strategy, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any event
specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Statement of Operational Policies of the Network referred
to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been received and found acceptable
by the Association;
      (b)   the Project director and the training specialist within the CMU
and the regional coordinators of the DRs referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been recruited on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association;
      (c)   the Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been signed between the
Borrower and ANAC-CI on behalf of the Network;
      (d)   the Monitoring Committee has been established;
      (e)   the CMU and the six DRs have been established under terms of
reference acceptable to the Association;
      (f)   standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods under
the Credit have been finalized and found acceptable by the Association;
      (g)   the Project Account has been opened and the initial deposit
referred to under Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement has been made; and
      (h)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CFD Loan
Agreement, the FAC Grant Agreement and the CIDA Grant Agreement have been
fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association,
namely, that the Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and ANAC-CI on behalf of the Network and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and ANAC-CI in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
Page  7
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan
            B.P. V 125
            Abidjan
            Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIN                    23747 MINFIN
                  Abidjan
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
                        By /s/ Moise Koumoue Koffi
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                               Credit Allocated        % of
                               (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                        SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)       Civil works                  110,000      100%
(2)       Vehicles and                 480,000      100% of foreign
          equipment                                 expenditures and
                                                    80% of local
                                                    expenditures
Page  8
(3)       Consultants'                 270,000      100%
          services
(4)       Training                     220,000      100%
(5)       Operating costs:
          (a)  until                   150,000      55%
               December 31,
               1996
          (b)  thereafter              120,000      30%
(6)       Unallocated                  150,000
                                      _________
          TOTAL                      1,500,000
                                      =========
2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also
that of another country from the territory of which the goods and services
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
    (c)   the term "operating costs" means expenditures incurred by the CMU
and DRs for local travel and standardized per diem associated with trips
outside the prefecture where an employee is assigned, vehicle operation and
maintenance, and small equipment and office supplies.
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a)
prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) under Category (4) until a detailed
training program for the first year and an outline for subsequent years
under Part C of the Project shall have been received and found acceptable
by the Association; and (c) under Category (5) (b) until an institutional
and organizational structure for the Network, satisfactory to the
Association, shall have been in place.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for goods, works and services not exceeding $20,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist in the strengthening of the
Network through the rehabilitation of existing CREPs and the creation of new
ones on a sustainable basis.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation and Development of Local CREPs
1.  Execution of financial audits and design of a rehabilitation plan for
existing CREPs, and creation of new CREPs in accordance with the Statement
of Operational Policies of the Network referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
2.  Implementation of training programs for CREP's members, provision of
institutional, logistical and management support, including rehabilitation
Page  9
of offices for about 40 CREPs, and carrying out of awareness campaigns.
Part B:   Support to the DRs
    Support to the DRs to promote and assist in the creation of new CREPs
and to provide supervision to all CREPs, including provision of training to
members, monitoring of compliance with prudential ratios, the quality of the
loan portfolio and loan recovery efforts, and the implementation of seminars
and workshops.
Part C:   Support to the CMU
    Strengthening of the CMU to enable it to exercise control over the
Network and to provide to the latter adequate support in financial,
institutional and managerial areas, the design of training programs and the
organization of seminars and workshops for CREP's members and the DRs, and
the provision of assistance for the carrying out of annual audits.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.        Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in        Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.        To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles and equipment
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
3.        Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by a
third-party inspection firm.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Cote d'Ivoire may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.        Items or groups of items for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $40,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
Page  10
equivalent to $160,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.        Items or groups of items for vehicles and equipment estimated to
cost between the equivalent of $200,000 and $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.        Items or groups of items for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall contract the services of such consultants
using the standard letter of invitation and form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.        At the National Level
    (a)   The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a Project
Monitoring Committee responsible for overall monitoring and guidance to the
Network.  The Monitoring Committee shall be chaired by the Borrower's
Page  11
Minister responsible for finance and its members shall include
representatives of other concerned ministries, of the Network and of Banque
Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest.  In the event of a disagreement
between  ANAC-CI and the CMU, the Monitoring Committee shall be called to
give its advice.
    (b)   ANAC-CI shall be primarily responsible for defining the overall
policy of the Network.  Accordingly, ANAC-CI shall provide guidance to the
CMU and delegate part of its management powers to it.
    (c)   The Borrower shall cause ANAC-CI to establish and thereafter
maintain the Central Management Unit (CMU) responsible for the daily
management of the Project. The CMU shall oversee activities undertaken at
the level of the DRs, determine in agreement with ANAC-CI the closing and
opening of CREPs, design training programs, implement publicity and
awareness campaigns at the national level, collect and centralize data and
statistics of the Network, and undertake financial and administrative
inspection of CREPs to ensure the appropriate management of excess liquidity
and compliance with prudential ratios.
    The CMU shall be staffed at all times with personnel in adequate
numbers, including a Project Director and a training specialist, all with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
2. At the Regional Level
    The Borrower shall cause ANAC-CI to establish and thereafter maintain
a Delegation Regionale of the Network (DR) in each of the following six
regions: Korhogo, Gagnoa, Bouake, Man, Abidjan-Est and Abidjan-Ouest.  With
respect to Part B of the Project, the DRs shall provide supervision and
support to CREPs in the geographical area of their competence.
    Each DR shall be staffed with a coordinator, two regional promoters and
two controllers, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association, and support staff in adequate numbers.
3.        At the Local Level
    The Statement of Operational Policies of the Network adopted by ANAC-CI,
approved by the Borrower, and found acceptable by the Association, shall
govern CREPs activities, in particular their opening, closing and savings
and loans operations.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
Page  12
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.        (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
Page  13
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
