Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.12757-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
ENTERPRISE HOUSING AND SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM PROJECT
JUNE 10, 1994
Environment and Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department II (China and Mongolia)
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(as of June 1994)
Currency Name - Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y) = 100 fen
Y1.00= $0.11
$1.00 = Y8.70
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms
CCG          Central Coordination Group
COE          Collectively Owned Enterprise
CPRP         Comprehensive Pilot Reform Program
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EPB          Environmental Protection Bureau
HMC          Housing Management Company (Joint Stock Company)
HRO          Housing Systems Reform Office
ICBC         Industry and Commerce Bank of China
JGF          Japan Grant Facility
MOC          Ministry of Construction
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOL          Ministry of Labor
MOPH         Ministry of Public Health
PAYG         Pay-As-You-Go funding
PBC          People's Bank of China (The central bank)
PCBC         People's Construction Bank of China
PFI          Participating Financial Intermediary
PMO          Project Management Office
RECD         Real Estate Credit Department
SIA          Social Insurance Agency
SOE          State-owned Enterprise
SPC          State Planning Commission
SRC          Systems Reform Commission
TA           Technical Assistance
UI           Unemployment Insurance
YHSB         Yantai Housing Savings Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
ENTERPRISE HOUSING AND SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM PROJECT
LOAN, CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:      Municipalities of Beijing, Chengdu, Ningbo and Yantai; and Ministry of Finance,
State Planning Commission, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Public Health, and
Systems Reform Commission
Loan/Credit       Loan US$275 million
Amount:            Credit SDR 53.1 million (US$75 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with maturities of 20 years for IBRD loan and 35 years for IDA credit
Onlending Terms: From the Government of China to Municipalities: for 20 years, including 5 years'
of grace, at interest rates equal to 87% of IBRD rate, with the foreign exchange
risks passed on to the municipalities. The municipalities will onlend the funds to
the participating financial intermediaries (PFIs), either in local currency at a
variable rate at least I % above the two-year fixed term deposit rate as published
by the People's Bank of China (PBC), the municipality bearing the foreign
exchange risks; or in foreign currency at a rate at least 0.5% above the rate paid
by the municipality, PFIs bearing the foreign exchange risks. Under both
arrangements, the maturity will be 20 years including 5 years' grace. The PFIs
will extend 20-year mortgage loans in local currency to Housing Management
Companies for development and acquisition of rental housing and to individuals
for home purchase, at a variable interest rate at least 1 % above the 3-year capital
investment loan rate as published by PBC.
Project           Enterprises in Chinese cities directly provide their workers with housing, pension,
Description:      health care and other benefits. This system seriously impedes labor mobility and
enterprise systems reform, and distorts housing and services delivery. The project
will help the four municipalities implement a strategy to develop a market-based
housing system and a robust social safety net, freeing enterprises of direct welfare
responsibilities, and thereby helping reform the enterprise system. To rationalize
the housing system, participating enterprises will divest themselves of their
housing stock and further obligations to provide and manage their worker housing,
and instead provide cash wage supplements enabling the workers to rent or buy
housing at commercial prices. The enterprise housing stock will be used as equity
capital to create housing management companies (HMCs) which will rent and sell
housing on a commercial basis. Participating local banks will provide long-term
mortgage loans for HMCs and individual home buyers on market terms. The
Bank Group loan/credit will be used mainly to supplement market resource
mobilization during the transition from the current housing finance system based
on earmarked enterprise funds. The regulatory framework for corporate
governance and property rights has been improved to safeguard housing market
and mortgage lending operations. The project will also support technical
assistance for development of HMCs, housing finance and a related property
rights framework. To strengthen social security, the project will help project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
municipalities accelerate their programs to widen pension, unemployment and
health insurance pools and improve contribution and benefit formulae. The
project will support technical assistance and training required for developing
necessary policies and management institutions. Project progress and impacts will
be monitored and evaluated systematically, to allow adjustment of project
implementation arrangements in view of experience and also economic and
institutional developments of China and to help disseminate the model.
Benefits:          The project will help enhance efficiency, equity, and sustainability in housing and
welfare services provision by introducing consumer budget constraints and
consumer choice that are lacking under the current systems, and by transferring
their financing and management responsibilities from enterprises to specialist
institutions and market mechanisms. By delinking housing and welfare services
from specific jobs and enterprises, the project will help define enterprise
obligations and performance better, increase flexibility in labor and investment
management, and strengthen social protection for individual workers. In turn, this
will help increase labor mobility, and help clarify and ease concerns over welfare
implications of enterprise restructuring. By developing and testing a strategy to
establish the new systems in the four representative cities, the project will help
establish an effective approach to, and useful lessons for, the needed reforms in
China's enterprise, housing, and social security systems.
Risks:             Establishing a wide range of new institutions and systems poses a formidable
political, management and technical challenge. This is particularly true for urban
housing reform pursued under the project, as it calls for actions that are far wider
and faster than under the Government's gradual reform strategy which has been
ineffective so far. In view of the political challenge involved, project cities have
been selected primarily on the basis of the municipal leaders' demonstrated
understanding of these actions and willingness to undertake them. The will and
capacity to implement the reform have been demonstrated by the completion of
critical reform steps by the time of negotiations, including rent increases of up to
20 times prevailing levels. Mortgage lending rules under the project link the
Bank Group financing to maintenance and expansion of the reform steps,
including expansion of the HMC system, adjustment of rents along with cost
escalation, and collection of mortgage loans. A large amount of technical
assistance has been and will continue to be provided to establish or strengthen
necessary institutional, legal and technical frameworks. During the project, a
systematic evaluation of the implementation and reform progress, including a
comprehensive mid-term review, will be carried out in order to allow adequate
adjustment where necessary and to draw useful lessons for extension of reform.



- iii -
Project Costs/a:                        Local        Foreign      Total
---------------- US$ Million-------------
Technical Assistance and Training
Social Security                       2.8         10.7         13.5
Housing and Housing Finance           1.8          4.4          6.2
Total Base Cost                       4.6         15.1         19.7
Physical and Price Contingencies      1.9          3.4          5.3
Total TA in Current Prices            6.5         18.5         25.0
Total Cost of Housing Financed Partly
by the Project, in Current Prices   601.2        323.8        925.0
Total in Current Prices                607.7        342.3        950.0
Financing Plan:
Local Banks                            325.0          -          325.0
Housing Management Companies
and Individual Homebuyers             274.5          -          274.5
Central and Municipal Governments        0.5          -            0.5
IBRD/IDA                                 7.7        342.3        350.0
Total                             607.7        342.3        950.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year      1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
------------------------ US$ Million------------------------
Annual                     28.0  70.0  91.0  63.0  46.0  38.0  14.0
Cumulative                 28.0  98.0  189.0 252.0  298.0  336.0  350.0
Poverty Category: Not Applicable
Economic Rate of Not Estimated. The main project benefits from institutional and economic
Return:          management reforms could not be quantified.
Map:             IBRD No. 25747R
/a Does not include taxes, tariffs, supervision and management expenses.



I-



- v -
CONTENTS
1   Enterprise Reform, Housing and Social Security in Urban China: Current Systems and
Issues
A.  Issues in Enterprise Reform   .....................................  1
B.  Financing and Supply of Housing  ..................................  2
C.  Social Security  ..............................................  4
2    Strategies for Reform
A.  Government's Economic Reform Strategies  .       ...........................  6
B.  Bank Group Strategies and Experience ................................  6
C.  Strategies for Housing Reform  ..................................    8
D.  Social Security Reform Strategy and Tasks .............................. 13
3    The Project
A. Project Background .15
B.   Objectives  and  Rationale  .......................................  16
C. Systems Reform Action Plans .17
D. Housing Mortgage Loans .20
E. Technical Assistance and Training .21
F. Project Cost and Financing .23
This Staff Appraisal Report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission that visited China in
October-November 1994, comprising Songsu Choi (Task Manager), Nicolette DeWitt (Counsel),
Yonghui Fan (Operations Officer), Andrew Hamer (Economist), Chingboon Lee (Economist), Feng
Wang (Legal Consultant), T.J. Luckens (Consultant Housing Specialist), and Youxuan Zhu
(Resettlement Specialist/Planner). Earlier missions also included Alain Bertaud (Urban Planner), Ivy
Cheng (Financial Analyst), Zafer Ecevit (Division Chief), Kevin Ayre, Barry Friedman (Consultant
Social Security Specialists), Nena Manley (Counsel), Joanna Siegle (Consultant Health Policy
Specialist), and Yuan Wang (Economist). Project preparation was supported by Japan Grant Fund,
which financed services of consultants including: Brian Abel-Smith, John Arnott, Brian Christensen
(Social Security/Health Specialists), Gilles Horenfeld, Community Association Services, Inc. (Housing
Specialists), Jianxiang Ding, Robert Josephs, Richard Lawrence, Neal Stender (Lawyers), April
LeClair, Robert Losey, Edgar Su (Banking Specialists), Clarence Chan (Property Specialist),
Gwendolyn Ball, Paul Chan, Alice Huang, Mingjiang Li, Zichao Li (Financial Analysts) and
Xiaoyong Wu (Information Specialist).
Peer reviewers are Bertrand Renaud, Lawrence Hannah, and Adrienne Nassau. The managing
Division Chief is Katherine Sierra and Director is Nicholas C. Hope.



- vi -
4    Institutions and Finances
A.  Central and Local Governments .................................... 25
B.  Social Security Administration  .................................... 26
C.  Housing Management Companies and the Enterprises ......           ................ 27
D. Taxes and Finances ....................................... 29
E.  Financial Intermediaries  ......................................   30
F.  Property Rights and Legal Framework .      ............................... 31
5    Project Implementation
A. Project Preparation ....................................... 34
B. Responsible Agencies ...................                                               35
C.  On-Lending Arrangements ...................  35
D. Disbursement ................... 37
E. Procurement ...................                                                        38
F.  Monitoring and Supervision ...................  40
6    Benefits and Risks
A. Economic Benefits . ................................... 41
B.  Equity Aspects ................................... 41
C.  Environment and Resettlement ...................................  42
D.  Policy and Implementation Risks ................................... 43
7    Agreements Reached and Recommendation . .............................. 45
ANNEXES
1.  Project Cities and Their Reform Programs ................................ 47
2. Housing Rents and Prices, and Wage Reform            ..52
3.  TA Programs for Housing Management Companies and Housing Market Development  .... 58
4.  Housing Management Companies: Financial Projections         ..65
5.  Summary of Criteria and Procedures for Appraising and Servicing Housing Mortgage Loans  74
6.  Housing Finance Technical Assistance Program: Outline       ..78
7.  Financial Projections of Participating Financial Institutions  ..81
8. Property Rights and Other Legal Framework            ..87
9.  Social Security Policy Reform Framework and Schedule        ..93
10. Social Security Technical Assistance Programs         ..96
11. Projected Disbursements and Price Escalation Factors       ..107
12. Project Costs and Loan/Credit Allocation by City       ..108
13. Monitoring, Supervision, and Evaluation          ..109
14. Selected Documents and Data in Project File         ..113



- vii -
TABLEs IN TEXT
3.1  Summary of Reform Action Plans of the Four Cities   ......................... 18
3.2  Estimated Housing Construction and Financing by City  ........................ 24
3.3  Summary of Project Cost and Financing .        .................................. 24
5.1  Disbursement Arrangements  ......................................... 37
5.2  Procurement Arrangements ..........................................  39
FIGURE iN TEXT
Figure 1  Housing Delivery and Finance: Current System in China and a Market-Based System  . .9
MAP
IBRD 25747R (Location of Project Cities)






- 1 -
1. ENTERPRISE REFORM, HOUSING, AND SOCIAL SECURITY IN
URBAN CHINA: CURRENT SYSTEMS AND ISSUES
A. IssuEs iN ENTERRSE REFORM
1.1      China's impressive economic growth in recent years owes largely to the economic systems
reform that started with the agriculture sector in the late 1970s and later expanded to urban enterprise
sectors. Especially fast growing are non-state sectors consisting of a nascent private sector in the cities
and a significant township and village enterprise sector operating in the rural and suburban areas.
However, the bulk of manufacturing and service sector output in China is still produced by state-owned
and collectively owned enterprises (SOEs and COEs) as well as public sector non-profit entities located
in cities.
1.2      A major thrust of urban economic reform has been decentralization of management decisions,
from the government to enterprise managers and from the central to local governments. Before the
reform process began, the government exercised direct control over production, investment and labor
management of the enterprises. Enterprises remitted all their operating surpluses to the government and
received investment and operating funds. As part of the reforms introduced over the last decade,
enterprises now have considerable autonomy in production and marketing decisions.  "Contract
management" systems introduced in the mid-1980s converted SOEs' formal objectives from gross output
to profit maximization, and provided enterprise managers with substantially enhanced autonomy over the
allocation of resources and labor within individual enterprises. Instead of remitting earnings, they now
pay taxes and allocate after-tax profits for investment, worker bonus and welfare, and other expenses,
subject to certain guidelines.
1.3      While increased management autonomy has helped rationalize resource allocation within each
enterprise, reforms in pricing and financing systems have increased efficiency of resource allocation
among enterprises. Final output markets have become far less subject to state control but subject to
increasing competitive pressures. Energy and key raw materials are now sold at generally realistic market
prices, except for a limited amount of supplies allocated and priced under the state plan. Financing for
industrial investment has been largely shifted from the budgetary allocation to bank lending and
enterprises' own retained earnings. State-fixed prices now govern less than 15 % of transactions, and the
state controls no more than a quarter of industrial investment. These reforms have resulted in a visibly
upward trend in urban enterprise productivity.
1.4     The fundamental character of labor and welfare systems, however, has changed only modestly.
Traditionally, workers were assigned jobs by the Government and provided with a whole range of in-kind
benefits along with nominal cash wages. The wages and benefits were provided by, or through, the
enterprises but they differed little either among or within enterprises. In the state-controlled sector, that
system continues today with few major changes. Although a growing proportion of new workers are now
hired on contract basis, actual layoffs and job mobility are limited. Wage scales are strictly controlled
by govermment regulations, with minimal variations across and within enterprises. For example, in early
1993 monthly wages of the middle 60% of the workers in Chengdu fell within a narrow range between
about Yuan 320 and 350. Cash wages steadily increased with the economic growth, and all but displaced
rationing of subsidized food and consumer goods. However, enterprise responsibilities for housing,
health care, and pensions became stronger, as the government transferred the responsibility to finance
the benefits, in addition to the management and delivery responsibility. This increase in enterprise



responsibility combined with increase in their authority over resource allocation has led to greater
differentiation of these benefits among and within enterprises, as the main available means of
compensation. While this has helped introduce incentives needed for economic growth, it has reinforced
the tie between benefits and jobs with serious negative effects both on the delivery of the services
concerned and on the enterprise system.
1.5      The in-kind benefits system has seriously limited efficiency and equity in housing and health
care delivery. With little role played by consumer budget constraints and consumer choice, the standards
and levels of housing and health care services are constrained mainly by enterprise budget availability.
As the fast economic growth and decentralization of the last decade eased the budget constraints on
enterprises and local governments, housing and health care expenditures have grown much faster than
overall growth of production, to levels far higher than those in countries at a comparable stage of
economic development (refer to Sections B and C below). However, the increased expenditures have
resulted more in rapidly escalating quantitative standards and unit costs of housing and health care, than
in increasing the range of service options and number of beneficiaries. As a result, inefficiencies in the
resource use has grown as has the gap between those who enjoy improved standards of services and those
whose employers are unable to provide them.
1.6      Another clear, negative consequence of this system is that it suppresses voluntary labor
mobility while severely restricting management and restructuring options on the part of enterprises. The
in-kind benefits, once extended, cannot easily be adjusted. As a result, the compensation system cannot
be used as an effective management tool. Each new worker hired requires a heavy commitment by the
employer, involving large lump-sum investments in housing and an entire obligation to provide health
benefits and retirement pensions. This limits labor mobility, and deters employment expansion by
profitable enterprises, and entry by new ones. This particularly affects small COEs and private sector
firms which do not have access to the welfare system catering mainly to SOEs and large COEs. Further,
profitable enterprises bear a disproportionate burden of housing and welfare provision. Many employees
of unprofitable enterprises depend on the housing and health care benefits provided by family members'
employers or by the government. The government also has to subsidize unprofitable enterprises to allow
them to provide welfare benefits.
1.7      Close to a third of SOEs and COEs are estimated to incur losses regularly. Their visible losses
are currently equivalent to about 5% of China's gross domestic product, and impose a large burden on
the Government budget, being twice as large as the net budget deficit. The economy suffers additional,
hidden losses incurred to shield the unprofitable enterprises from hard budget constraints. The latter,
indirect subsidies are incurred in the form of bank loan roll-overs, tax concessions, and cross-subsidies
provided by profitable enterprises as described in para 1.6 above. These subsidies, necessary mainly in
order to protect workers of inefficient enterprises, have resulted in limited overall productivity growth
of the SOE sector and inefficient resource allocation for the economy as a whole. Further development
of China's economy would depend critically upon more vigorous growth of efficient enterprises and
restructuring of inefficient ones, which would be severely constrained by the tangled web of subsidies
and the lack of sustainable alternatives for housing and social security provision.
B. FINANCING AND SUPPLY OF HOUSING
1.8      Since urban economic reforms began in the early 1980s, fast economic growth and expanded
discretion over resource allocation by enterprises and local governments fueled a housing construction
boom, sharply reversing the stagnation of the preceding decade, during which little urban housing was
added. Each year during the last decade, approximately 150-200 million square meters of housing,
equivalent to 3-4 million apartments, have been added to the urban housing stock. The stock stands today
at nearly 4 billion square meters of housing, of which more than two-thirds have been built after 1985.



- 3 -
In contrast to the old system under which the government built and allocated housing to enterprises, most
of the new stock has been financed by enterprises and many local governments also transferred much of
the older stock to enterprises. The housing is managed either by the enterprise that owns it or by
management companies under municipal housing bureaus.
1.9      Most of current urban housing, about 80% of total in a typical city, is owned by business
enterprises and other types of public sector work units and rented out to their workers at nominal rent.
Throughout the 1980's, while housing construction was surging, average rents stayed the same at 13 Fen
per square meter of floor space per month. Even after relatively large increases since 1988, current
average monthly rent stands at only about 35 Fen/m2. Thus the rent of a typical apartment unit (52 m2
renting for about Yuan 18 or US$2 a month) accounts for less than 3% of household income and falls
far short of minimal operation and maintenance cost. As one result, maintenance is neglected and much
of the existing housing stock, including that added in the last ten years, is likely to suffer serious
structural deterioration and require large infusions of resources to deal with deferred maintenance
problems in the near future. Within each enterprise, housing is generally allocated on the basis of job-
related criteria such as seniority and rank, as well as "needs" defined by family characteristics and actual
space used. Once allocated, however, the housing is indefinitely kept by the employees, except to move
to better accommodation or to change jobs, even after retirement and even passed on to their offspring.
These workers and their household members thus gain effective control over an asset worth about 20
times average annual household income. Because individuals may live in housing provided by the
employer of another member of the household, or de facto inherited from a close relative, there is no
one-to-one correspondence between the owner of a unit and the employer of the household head. In fact,
as noted, enterprises with little if any profits depend on other enterprises and public authorities to house
their workers.
1.10     Because housing has come to be viewed as an entitlement as well as a wage-related benefit,
the government has maintained a powerful role in the sector, though reduced and indirect compared with
the former responsibilities of direct construction and allocation of housing. Periodically, the Ministry
of Construction issues guidelines specifying the minimum desirable size of housing per person, which are
often further inflated by municipalities. The high and escalating standards have limited the number of
beneficiaries of the housing boom of the last decade, who have been allocated new housing of high
standards, to typically less than half of the total population of the city. Households occupying less than
half the target level are usually classified as the "housing poor". Typically the "housing poor" are not
low-wage earners but employees of loss-making enterprises or non-profit agencies. Solving their housing
"needs" then becomes a public policy issue, addressed by municipal governments through municipal
housing investment plans, financed by resources of the governments or other enterprises.
1.11     Long-term financing for housing is at a nascent, experimental stage in China, and most
enterprises purchase housing in cash. They acquire and maintain their worker housing units with funds
set aside from retained earnings and, although not formally sanctioned, often also from accounts reserved
for production and investment. Various "housing fund" systems have been introduced as an element of
the Government's recent housing reform program, but most of them function not as genuine housing
finance systems but essentially as trust arrangements for funds earmarked for housing, raised from
enterprises and individual payrolls. One of the uses of the housing funds appears to be to assist
enterprises which are otherwise unable to acquire housing for their workers, and otherwise solve the
problem of the "housing poor".
1.12     In contrast to housing management and financing systems, the housing development system has
undergone a process of significant reform. In the mid-1980s, a few real estate development companies
were first established as subsidiaries of large SOEs and COEs in several cities. Now there are numerous
such companies in most cities, aggressively competing in a manner similar to their counterparts in market



economies. These companies no longer wait for specific orders but develop a supply pipeline based
partly on municipal housing plans and vigorously market their products to enterprises. As a result, there
is increasing variety in design, although the basic pattern still are 5- to 6-story walk-up apartment
buildings, and more high-rises in large cities. The materials supply industry has grown in a similar
fashion. The land occupied by housing complexes used to be provided by the local government, either
by requisitioning agricultural land from peri-urban communities or relocating existing urban occupants
(often temporarily) to free up land for redevelopment. The investor who buys a housing unit has full
property rights over the structure, but only ambiguously defined "use rights" over the associated land.
This system, however, is now being replaced in many cities by a system of land leases obtained through
competitive bidding or negotiation and carrying property rights that can be transferred or mortgaged.
Relatively few of the distortions in urban enterprise housing, identified above, are seen in the suburban
areas which, as a result, are fast becoming suppliers of private rental housing for urban workers who are
able to pay market rents.
C. SOCIAL SECURI
1.13     China's labor insurance system was established in the early 1950s in the context of an economy
managed predominantly by the state. Government prescribed a wide range of benefits mandated for
workers of SOEs and certain COEs, including retirement and disability pensions, health care, and even
unemployment protection. As part of the economic decentralization during the 1980s, responsibilities for
financing and managing these benefit programs have transferred almost completely to enterprises, and
resulted in increasing divergence of benefits among enterprises and growing problems of mismatch
between resources and obligations of individual enterprises. In response to these and various other issues
arising with the changing economic structure, the Government is introducing piecemeal modifications to
the social insurance system as reform "experiments".
1.14     The social security responsibilities place a heavy and growing burden on enterprises. Overall
labor insurance costs of SOEs and urban COEs increased from about 20% of their total wages in 1982
to 35% in 1992 (3.5% and 4.5% of GDP, respectively). Furthermore, this burden often falls most
heavily on enterprises that can least afford it, such as older enterprises in declining industries which have
inherited a large number of retirees and are experiencing declining profitability. In 1992, SOEs and
COEs, many of which were established in the early 1950s and 1960s, had pension expenditures
amounting to 19% of the wage bill, compared to the 4% paid out by the relatively new group of joint
venture, foreign- and privately-owned enterprises. With the aging of their work force, the pension
obligations of SOEs and COEs as currently structured are projected to reach 25 % of their total wages by
2010. To buttress the social safety net, the government is compelled to subsidize such enterprises. This
contributes not only to the growing fiscal deficit but also to ambiguous enterprise accountability, impeding
enterprise reform.
1.15     As a main thrust of the social security reform program begun in the mid-1980s, Government
has been promoting resource pooling for retirement pensions. By now pension pools for SOE workers
have been established in most localities. In many cities, pension pools for COE workers and even for
joint venture workers has been formed, but separate from the SOE pension pool and at different
contribution rates. Even within the SOE sector, funds for permanent workers are kept separate from
those for workers hired under the new contract system, which has been in use for new employees since
1987. In most cities, a considerable and growing portion of the workers of private and joint-venture
enterprises and smaller COEs are not included in any pension pool. While the pooling has achieved a
modest redistribution of the pension burden among similar types of enterprises, the separation of pension
schemes severely limits their effectiveness and stability as a social safety net. Not only does the system
exclude the fast growing non-SOE workers, but it also separate young workers who tend to be on
contracts with SOEs or joint ventures from permanent SOE workers who are retiring in steadily growing



numbers. Further, management tasks to collect contributions and deliver benefits also remain mostly with
enterprises.
1.16     Another important initiative introduced as part of the reform program is unemployment
insurance for workers of SOEs and large COEs, funded with a 1 % payroll tax. However, the funds are
used less for unemployment income support than for training and other employment services and so far
have run large surpluses.  This is partly due to restrictive eligibility criteria for unemployment
compensation, but fundamentally due to Government policies which still try to limit unemployment by
requiring enterprises to redeploy and retrain redundant employees.
1.17     Government operates health insurance, financed out of the general budget, only for
government employees and retirees, university students and demobilized soldiers. Each SOE is required
to finance and operate its own group insurance providing coverage for active and retired workers. Aside
from limited coverage and uneven burdens on enterprises, the most pressing problem of the existing
health care system is the rapid cost escalation. Medical expenditures for active SOE workers increased
at an average rate of 23% a year during 1985-90, to account for 28% of total labor insurance costs in
1992, and equivalent to 14% of SOEs' total payroll -- twice the budgeted figure. The rapid cost
escalation are largely attributable to a perverse incentive structure and a general lack of cost containment
measures. The lack of co-payment requirement encourages workers to overuse health care, and the rigid
reimbursement formulae induce inefficient health care delivery by hospitals. To ease the uneven burden
of health care costs on enterprises, pooling for serious diseases has started in several cities on an
experimental basis. The Government is also designing and experimenting with a series of reform options
including expansion of health insurance pools and implementation of various cost containment measures.



- 6 -
2. STRATEGIES FOR REFORM
A. GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM STRATEGIES
2.1      Traditionally, the Government has advanced national reform  programs through local
experimentation. This approach is due not only to uncertainties inherent to different, untested reform
models but also to the great local diversity and autonomy, particularly after the decentralization during
the last decade. Under the current inter-governmental system, the Government limits its role largely to
guidance and coordination, giving local governments latitude to manage local affairs. Most Government
policies are established as general guidelines, which require detailed local rules for implementation. For
issues for which solutions cannot be clearly defined, the Government often encourages local governments
to experiment with new solutions, identify "best practices", and refine and disseminate them across the
country as a whole.
2.2      Having succeeded in facilitating fast economic growth through introduction of new management
arrangements and market mechanisms, the Government has recently begun fundamental reforms in fiscal,
financial, macroeconomic management, enterprise and labor systems in order to move forward with the
next stage of economic development. Central to these is enterprise reform, as the problems of SOEs and
COEs lie at the root of many difficulties in other areas. Therefore, Government is promoting broad,
structural measures to enhance enterprise autonomy and accountability. Extending the management
decentralization, the Government is promoting corporatization of SOEs, by conversion into shareholder
companies and exercise of ownership through corporate boards, and reorientation of government agencies
from direct interventions and operational controls to regulatory oversights. Beyond these measures to
improve enterprise management, the current strategy to develop a "socialist market economy," officially
adopted in 1992, calls for more aggressive measures to increase accountability and efficiency of the
enterprise sector as a whole. These include measures to even the playing field for enterprises regardless
of ownership status, and hence promote non-state sector enterprises; and those to restructure inefficient
enterprises such as leasing or sales of small unprofitable SOEs to better performing enterprises or private
investors, and even bankruptcies. Reform measures in other areas, including financial and fiscal
management systems, and accelerating of reforms in output and factor markets aim largely at fundamental
reforms in the framework within which enterprises operate so as to facilitate enterprise restructuring.
2.3      The scope and pace of actual enterprise restructuring, however, have remained limited and
cautious partly due to the traditional strategy through experimentation but also largely due to concerns
over the potential social impact of fundamental restructuring. SOE and COE work force number around
100 million and, along with their dependents, represent most of the urban population. Consequently, it
is now widely recognized that establishing sustainable housing and social security systems is a crucial
prerequisite to broad economic restructuring. As a result, a new reform initiative, Comprehensive Pilot
Reform Program (CPRP) to be launched soon in several selected cities, will combine steps to reform
enterprise, labor, housing, and social security systems.
B. BANK GROUP STRATEGIES AND EXPERIENCE
2.4      The main thrust of the Bank Group's assistance strategy for China has been to help facilitate
China's transition from a planned to a market economy, while safeguarding the social safety net and the
environment, by supporting innovative, flexible approaches to advancing the forefront of reform,
particularly in SOEs and their operating environment. As an important part of the Bank Group's



assistance, an extensive series of sector studies has been carried out to define the issues and reform
options for enterprise, labor, housing, and social security sectors. The relevant sector reports include
"Industrial Policies for an Economy in Transition" (Report No. 8312-CHA, 1990), "Reforming Social
Security in a Socialist Economy" (Report No. 8074-CHA, 1990), "Urban Housing Reform: Issues and
Implementation Options" (Report No. 9222-CHA, 1991), "Reforming the Urban Employment and Wage
System" (Report No. 10266-CHA, 1992), and "Industrial Restructuring: A Tale of Three Cities" (Report
No. 10479-CHA, 1992). The Bank Group has also supported industrial finance projects in a number of
localities and a growing number of lending operations to assist municipal and provincial governments in
improving infrastructure planning, pricing, and management.
2.5       The findings of the sector work and earlier industrial lending operations have indicated that
enterprise reform needs to be combined with reforms in the enabling framework, comprising various
elements across the usual sectoral boundaries, including social and management infrastructure. Reflecting
these findings, the Bank Group has been supporting several municipally-based industrial development
projects that emphasize reform of the sector infrastructure including technology support and the local
government's economic management systems. Realizing the need for even broader reforms, the Bank
Group is preparing operations to support reform of enterprises together with other broad economic
frameworks. The Bank Group has recently initiated preparation of national operations to support reforms
in the financial sector, legal framework, technology transfer, and labor market systems as well as a
municipally-based comprehensive enterprise reform project. The proposed project represents an important
and critical element of this new series of assistance operations.
2.6      However, experiences accumulated through operations to help reform the frameworks for
enterprise restructuring are still insufficient; and there have not been any lending operations aimed
specifically at reforming employment benefits systems either in China or elsewhere. The most relevant
lessons for the project may therefore be drawn from housing, institutional development, and sectoral
adjustment operations supported by the Bank Group world-wide.
2.7      Drawing lessons from housing and housing finance operations supported by the Bank Group
in the last 20 years as well as experiences of industrialized countries, the Bank's Housing Policy Paper
(1992) found that performance of the housing sector depends on the pricing and regulatory structure of
the sector as well as the economy as a whole; in particular, housing finance was found critical as a
generator and regulator of demand. Conversely, the housing sector was shown to have a significant
impact on national fiscal and macroeconomic health. Incorrect pricing of housing and housing loans has
contributed significantly to fiscal deficits and macroeconomic instability in some countries. The Housing
Policy Paper endorses operations involving non-traditional instruments to address broad sectoral and
institutional issues.
2.8       Experiences with institutional development and sectoral adjustments, however, point out
potential difficulties facing operations that address a broad range of policy and institutional issues and
suggests important lessons to apply. While such operations need to deal with complex sets of interrelated
issues to be effective, the reforms must be carried out in a careful sequence, buttressed by early and
visible benefits for various stake-holders. Careful project preparation and borrower involvement,
essential conditions in general, were found to be even more crucial for the policy reform and institutional
development programs. These lessons have been incorporated in the proposed project design and
preparation.



- 8 -
C. STRATEGIES FOR HOUSING REFORM
Market-Based Housing System
2.9      There is general agreement on the desirability of a market-based housing delivery system where
end users select housing solutions from a wide range of options offered by independent commercial
providers. In such a system, enterprises would not have any direct responsibility for their employees'
housing other than providing full, competitive wages. Figure 1 illustrates such a system in contrast with
the current system of housing delivery and finance in typical Chinese cities (Figure l.a) discussed in
Section 1.B. Supply and financing of housing, functions now performed mainly by employers in China,
would instead be carried out by independent housing consumers, suppliers and financial intermediaries
in the market system. In order for commercial suppliers to sell or rent housing without subsidies, sales
prices would have to recover all costs and earn profits, while rents would have to be high enough to
allow investors to recover costs over the economic life of the housing. Consumers would deal directly
with suppliers to choose housing according to their needs and affordability. As costs of housing assets
are large compared to the homeowner's income or to rental receipts, long-term credit is an essential
ingredient of a well-functioning housing market. In order to ensure sustained resource mobilization,
financial intermediaries will have to offer competitive returns on deposits and charge interest rates that
cover the cost of funds and their intermediation. Credit risks need to be controlled by strengthening the
legal framework that provides for effective property and mortgage rights. Further, a fully developed
housing finance system should include various institutional channels and resource mobilization instruments
that will allow secondary mortgage markets to emerge and encourage the participation of different types
of investors.
Government Strategy to Date
2.10     In order to ease the enterprise burdens and at the same time meet demand for new housing,
both of which were growing rapidly in the 1980s under the system, a large number of municipal
governments adopted programs in mid-1980s to promote individual homeownership by providing
enterprise and government subsidies of up to 70 % of purchase prices. It soon became apparent, however,
that these programs were financially unsustainable, unable to generate significant housing sales, and
inequitable. In view of the worsening problems, a State Council directive in 1988 banning deep discounts
on housing sales and encouraged experiment with alternative ways toward a view toward commercializing
housing, or establishing a market-based system of housing provision. For a specific model, it selected
two small cities of Yantai and Bengbu in 1987 to experiment with substantial but restricted rent and wage
increases and housing finance operation. In 1991 revision of the directive to make it applicable to all
cities, the Government retained basic tenets of the 1988 directive, but lacking consensus for a bold reform
strategy, set more gradual targets for rent and wage increases.
2.11     Consensus has been established that the current housing system needs to be transformed into
a market-based one, and that commercialization requires raising the currently nominal levels of housing
rents to levels covering current and capital costs. In view of low cash incomes of households, however,
only gradual rent increases are considered possible initially. As incomes have been rising consistently
over time, relatively modest increases in the portion of household income spent on housing were expected
to lead to a satisfactory pace of rent increases. This strategy was put into practice in an experiment in
1987 involving a small number of cities. A schedule of rent increases was adopted as a part of the
national housing reform program in 1991. Progress to date has been disappointing, however, falling far
short of the modest target for rents to recover current costs plus depreciation (the so-called "3 factors")
by 1993. In fact, rents fell in most cities in real terms since economic reform began (Refer to para 1.9).



-9-
Figure 1. Housing Delivery and Finance: Current System In China and
a Market-Based System
Fig. 1.a Current Housing System In China
ENTERPRISE                                              BUILDER
HOUSEHOLD                                               BANKS
Key:
,-i Flow of Housing
Ezzz= Flow of Funds
E==* Housing Contributed as Equity
-::. ADvidonds
Fig. 1.b A Market-based Housing System
ENTERPRISE                                              BUILDER
HOUSING
COMPANY
HOUSEHOLD                                               BANKS
CAPITAL MARKET



- 10 -
2.12     Paralleling the rent increases, another important element of the Government strategy has been
homeownership promotion. Housing units owned or bought by enterprises are offered to enterprise
employees at "standard prices," set at cost adjusted for depreciation.  Further discounts, though
discouraged, are in fact common in many municipalities. Loans, carrying maturities of up to ten years
(but most often about five years), are offered at interest rates that are lower than commonly available on
loans of shorter maturities. The combination of low prices and low interest rates, however, has failed
to generate significant housing sales to the general public, mainly due to low levels of income and savings
and to disincentives to buy created by low rents.
2.13     The Government has also promoted the creation of "housing funds," partly to support
individual homeownership and more generally to augment the resources for housing construction. To
manage the housing funds, local specialized institutions were established in Yantai and Bengbu as part
of the 1988 reform experiment. However, in most cities, housing finance is handled by "Real Estate
Credit Departments (RECDs)" belonging to local branches of the People's Construction Bank of China
(PCBC) or the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC). These institutions are described in
more detail in Chapter 4. Most of the funds are deposited by enterprises as part of the welfare reserves.
Beginning in 1991, they have been supplemented with "provident funds" contributed equally by
individuals and their employees and kept in individual accounts. This essentially amounts to creating a
trust for earmarked funds, with rates for both deposits and loans lower than other prevailing rates.
Because the demand for individual loans has been insignificant, most of the housing funds have so far
been used as short-term loans to enterprises for housing construction or purchase approved by the local
government.
2.14     A critical shortcoming of the strategy described above is its inability to bring an end to the
enterprise's direct obligations for employee housing. Given that current rents will have to be increased
10 to 30 times in real terms to reach commercially viable levels, it is doubtful such a target can
realistically be achieved in gradual steps and be acceptable to consumers. As apparent from the lack of
progress so far, consumers are likely to resist even gradual rent increases if these are not fully
compensated by income growth. This is because raising the proportion of income spent on rent, as
envisaged in the Government strategy, represents real income reduction, albeit small. The affordability
analysis that underlies this approach is fundamentally flawed, as it ignores expenditures incurred by
enterprises for employee housing and thus available for compensating wage adjustments when rents are
restructured. In effect, then, the current strategy is geared less toward establishing a market-based
housing system than to mobilizing more resources for housing, in some cases even increasing the
enterprise responsibility for housing. Due to the lack of efficacy of the current strategy, either for true
commercialization or for increased resource mobilization for housing, there is growing discussion among
government and enterprise managers aimed at identifying an effective and feasible alternative strategy.
In addition to the experience under the common model of housing reform decribed in the foregoing, more
ambitious experiments have been carried out in a few cities. These have shown values and needs of
bolder reforms, but could not be expanded for lack of support and follow-up actions. Such experiments
in Chengdu and Yantai are briefly discussed in Annex 1.
An Alternative Strategy
2.15     An alternative strategy for commercialization of housing would focus on converting the in-kind
housing benefits into cash wages, and setting rents and sale prices at levels which cover at least the full
cost. The rent increases would be large -- in a typical city, about 15 to 20 times the current rents (from
about Y20 per month to about Y350), compared with average household cash income of about Y900 a
month. However, workers would be fully compensated by wage adjustments and gain more freedom of
choice. As this strategy redirects the flow of resources that are already available and used in the system,
the rent and wage adjustments would be affordable at least at an aggregate level. An effective alternative



- 11 -
strategy, however, would need to have devices to deal with key issues of transition, including the initial
absence of the market-based systems of housing delivery and finance, wage adjustment formulae, and
affordability problems faced by specific individuals and unprofitable enterprises.
2.16     A model of a market-oriented system to effect the transition is illustrated in Figure l.b.
Critical elements of the model include:
(a) Autonomous for-profit companies, providing housing directly to consumers, that would take
over housing stock now owned and operated by enterprises;
(b) Commercially viable housing rents and sales prices that would recover the long-run marginal
cost of housing;
(c) Cash wage supplements to compensate for rent increases;
(d) Market-oriented long-term mortgage lending operations for owner-occupied and rental housing;
and
(e) Policy and regulatory frameworks that allow sustainable operation of the housing management
and finance institutions.
2.17     Housing Management Company. An effective device both to initiate a market-based housing
delivery system and to help the divestiture of enterprise housing would be the creation of joint-stock
housing management companies (HMCs). Several enterprises would join together to create an HMC by
contributing their housing stock as equity capital in return for ownership shares. The HMC would
administer this housing stock and also acquire new housing to rent or sell at commercial prices. Such
an HMC would be, in the usual typology of Chinese companies, a collectively-owned enterprise, which
as a class has shown relatively strong autonomy and accountability. Clearly defined ownership rights and
corporate governance structure would help reinforce these characteristics. During the transition, further
measures would be required to reinforce incentives for market-based behaviour and to prevent
continuation of ties between enterprise and housing. For example, while shareholders would want an
HMC to maximize profits and hence dividend distribution and share values, they would also have other
short-term interests that conflict with the profit objective: to suppress HMC housing rents so as to limit
their wage adjustment burden; and to maximize HMC acquisition of new housing and hence housing
supply to their employees, which could reduce short-term cash flow and even financial stability of the
HMC. Therefore, minimum pricing rules and other safeguards would be essential to ensure commercially
viable behavior.
2.18     Initially, HMC customers would primarily consist of workers employed by the enterprises that
originally owned the stock. This is likely not only because the shareholding enterprises would want to
give priority to their own employees, but also because commercial rents and prices would not be
affordable to employees of other entities whose wages would not be adjusted. The access to affordable
housing would induce other employers, such as private and joint-venture companies that are profitable
but lack housing, to invest in HMCs by making cash equity contributions. However, as additional
enterprises invest in or create HMCs and provide higher cash wages to their employees, a more open
housing market would emerge, providing wider choice for consumers and greater profit opportunities for
HMCs and their shareholders. Again, it would be necessary to ensure that HMCs are not closely
identified with a few shareholder enterprises and that more HMCs and other housing suppliers enter the
market and compete.



- 12 -
2.19     Finance. Commercial levels of housing rents and high cash wages of individuals would make
commercially priced housing loans for HMCs and individuals feasible. In turn, lenders would be able
to mobilize financial resources from the market without resorting to forced savings or subsidies. Under
current market conditions, however, very long maturities, fixed interest rates, or reliance on foreclosure
sale would impose undue risks to lenders. The large asset base of existing housing, which is fully paid
for, would provide a large rental income stream as well as a secure collateral for loans. The cash flow
would also allow a HMC to repay loans for new housing over a reasonable maturity shorter than the
housing's economic life, without having to charge extremely high rents on the new housing, which would
be necessary if the loan repayments are to be made solely by income from the new housing. Further,
the cash flow would be large enough to allow the HMC to pay substantial dividends to shareholders,
which would support wage adjustment, especially for enterprises which have made large investments and
contributed a sizeable stock of housing. This financial structure is discussed in more detail in Chapter
4 and Annex 4.
2.20     Wages. Compensating for higher costs of renting or buying housing, enterprises would
provide cash wage supplements to allow workers to pay higher rents or mortgage payments. The
supplements would be financed mostly from the savings of housing expenditures that are no longer
necessary, supplemented with HMC dividends. As allocation of housing is currently used as a tool to
increase compensation differentials between different groups of workers, the wage adjustment
compensating for housing rent increases will steepen the current flat wage distribution, and allow it to
more closely reflect job-related characteristics. In principle, the rent increase would be fully compensated
for most workers. This is necessary to ensure that the workers' real incomes are not reduced; this is also
justified and affordable as the total amount would not exceed what the enterprises have been paying to
acquire and maintain housing. However, it would be important not to tie wage supplements directly and
continuously to specific housing consumption that would vary with individual employees' needs and time.
Therefore, the supplement would be determined on the basis of typical housing occupied by workers
holding comparable jobs, not the specific housing unit occupied by a particular individual; and it would
be made a part of the comprehensive wage and subject to adjustment as a whole, not according to changes
in housing consumption in the future.
2.21     Clearly, there will be winners and losers: those who have lesser housing than others in
comparable positions and will now receive a supplement exceeding the rent increase; and those who
occupy disproportionately large housing and now would have to pay rent in excess of the wage
supplement awarded. While the ultimate solution for the latter would be to adjust their housing
consumption, by moving or subletting, transitional relief may be given in the form of an excess allowance
that is phased out, say, in three years. Transitional payments would also be needed for workers whose
spouses are employed by enterprises which do not join the new housing system and do not pay a wage
supplement. This type of problem would constitute the largest demand for excess payments, and would
pose significant problems when the reform covers only part of the city. However, eventual withdrawal
of these subsidies would force other enterprises to pay the wage supplement for employees living in
housing not built by them and therefore spur them to join the new system. Such transitional payments
simply monetize the cross-subsidy provided to the other enterprise and as such would not impose
additional burdens to the enterprises joining the new system. As the transitional payments are withdrawn,
the resources would be used instead to provide wage supplements to participating enterprises' own
workers who have previously received neither housing nor wage adjustments.
2.22     Regulatory Framework. The proposed new system would require strengthening a number
of legal and regulatory instruments in China, including those governing registration and valuation of
property, landlord-tenant relationships, foreclosure, eviction, and condominiums. At present, contracts
are commonly used to overcome specific deficiencies in the national legal framework. However, further
development of the regulatory framework will become increasingly important as the housing market



- 13 -
develops. In the meantime, local regulations would be needed to strengthen the current framework.
Formal regulations aside, it would be difficult to enforce eviction and foreclosure and to apply other
market disciplines in the housing delivery system in general unless public housing is provided to
accommodate the dispossessed and the poor.
2.23     Beyond Transition. The strategy outlined above focuses on the rental sector for reasons
mentioned in para 2.12 above. However, the strategy would establish commercial levels of rents, higher
cash wages, and long-term mortgage financing, that would lead to viability of ownership options.
Therefore, provisions must be made to allow households, who wish to buy units and can accumulate the
necessary downpayment, to obtain mortgage loans. The success of HMCs would create a viable rental
market which would attract further investment from private sources and insurance funds. However, as
homeownership spreads, it would present a more important area of private investment. Because new
housing would increasingly reflect consumers' tastes and budget constraints, the intrusive regulations and
guidelines governing housing unit sizes and other related aspects would lose much of its justification and
should be replaced with a set of ordinances to safeguard health, safety, and environmental considerations.
D. SocIAL SECURITY REFORM STRATEGY AND TASKS
2.24     A reformed social and health insurance system is critical to the creation of more efficient labor
and enterprise systems in urban China. Such a system would need to be separated from the fortunes of
individual enterprises, financed in a sustainable and equitable manner, portable, and providing a minimum
safety net. This requires a wide pool to allow redistribution of costs across enterprises and workers and
over time, and benefit and contribution formulae that are consistent with each other and workers' needs
and means. They would in turn require efficient management organizations that can take over a number
of tasks currently performed by enterprises. The Government is now pursuing reform initiatives and
experiments directed broadly toward these objectives and has made considerable progress, particularly
in pooling retirement pension funds. These initiatives, however, have yet to be consolidated into a
coherent and detailed program with specific implementation plans. What is needed at this point is to
define the necessary next steps and schedules, to refine benefit and contribution formulae, and to develop
a necessary institutional framework and management capacity.
2.25     Benefits and Funding. For various pension and insurance programs, it is important that
benefit and contribution formulae be defined consistent with the program aims and resources. For
pension reform, the Government is emphasizing individual contributions and encouraging local authorities
to establish benefit and contribution formulae appropriate for different tiers of retirement income support:
the basic social safety net managed publicly, enterprise-based pension schemes, and individual retirement
savings. Further, the Government is also encouraging modest prefunding in view of the growing pension
obligations that may be difficult to meet by the pay-as-you-go system currently used in most pension
schemes other than those for the SOE contract workers. As a near-term task, it would be important to
define at least the first, basic tier of retirement pension linked to changes in effective wages and living
costs, and define a corresponding contribution requiring workers to pay a share. It would also be
important to project resource requirements and availability of pension schemes and review various
investment options, with a view toward defining a benefit and funding formulae that would be consistent
with each other and sustainable in the long-term.
2.26     The main issue facing the health care system is the rapid escalation of costs. While cost
containment measures would include those to improve efficiency of health care delivery itself, the most
pressing task would be to correct the perverse incentive structure by a better definition of benefits and
payment methods. The Government is supporting experiments in selected cities with alternative health
care management systems, including for example: a fee-for-service system combined with co-payment
and strong cost control measures; and a capitation system. Results of the experiments are being



- 14 -
disseminated to help other localities formulate new payment and funding systems. It would be important
to introduce co-payment requirements and implement initial cost control measures in the light of these
experiences, while continuing with further experiments with different strategies in various pricing and
management measures.
2.27     In contrast to the considerable reforms in retirement pension and health care systems led by
the Government, programs to provide treatment and compensation for work injury and income and
employment support for the unemployed remain perfunctory and ill-defined, left largely to individual
employers. The Government is now working to better define work injury protection and standardize the
benefits. Protection for labor redundancy is a most serious issue, whose resolution depends on a broad
range of fundamental structural reform policies. Government's current policy is to minimize layoffs by
making the employing enterprise responsible for finding or creating jobs for the redundant labor, with
some assistance from the government agency supervising the enterprise. Although efforts are under way
to introduce improvements in unemployment insurance and related employment support services, their
significance would remain marginal without fundamental decisions on labor and enterprise restructuring.
In the meantime, it would be important to clearly define benefit criteria, strengthen the labor information
system, and enhance the job training and placement services.
2.28     Pooling. The main thrust of Government reform strategy has been to pool resources for
various components of social protection, from pension to health insurance, to spread the burden and
enhance labor mobility. As described in Chapter 1, most progress has been made in pension pooling:
pools for different types of enterprises and workers have been formed in many cities and counties. These
are to be combined into provincial pools, which have already been formed in several provinces, and then
national pools. Given that there are separate current pools for different types of work units, however,
it would be more productive to broaden and consolidate the pooling across different types of workers
within each city before moving on to pooling over wider geographical areas. Efforts are under way to
form insurance pools for health, work injury, and unemployment at city or county level. It would be
important that such pools cover as wide a proportion of the work force as possible, given experience with
the pension pools.
2.29     Institutional Capacity. Strengthened management and policy analysis capabilities are needed
to support the reform tasks, including pooling and establishment of new benefit and contribution
formulas. For example, health facility utilization and cost studies are essential to formulating new service
payment systems and setting health insurance premia. The contribution and benefit formulas for pensions,
now being revised, as well as various insurance schemes, must be evaluated and updated periodically with
better projection of needs and resources.
2.30     To manage pension pools, social insurance agencies (SIAs) have been established under local
governments. These currently function mainly as clearing houses that collect funds from enterprises
whose required contribution exceeds the pension costs of their own retirees, and transfer the surplus to
enterprises running deficits. Basic pension management tasks remain with each enterprise, including the
collection of contributions, compilation of individual wage histories, calculation and delivery of benefits.
For genuine pension pools to function effectively, most of these functions need to be taken over by a
centralized management agency. This will bring about substantial economies of scale, particularly if data
handling is computerized. Once a system is established to collect contributions centrally, it could handle
the collection of all contributions and premia for pension, health insurance and other related schemes,
although the different schemes would have to be managed separately.



- 15 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Project Origin
3.1      The Bank Group has been supporting the Government's search for housing reform models since
the reform experiment started in 1987. Initial assistance was provided through a series of occasional
papers and policy seminars and formal sector work ("China: Urban Housing Reform: Issues and
Implementation Options," op. cit.), analyzing weaknesses of the existing system as well as recommending
and elaborating on elements necessary for market-based systems. The sector work, delivered in 1991,
provided a significant and timely input as the Government held a series of discussions to review the
progress of housing reform experiments begun in 1987 and to define a new national policy framework
for housing reform.  While accepting the goal of market-based housing system, the Government
considered the steps needed for rapid commercialization of housing well beyond what was considered
feasible in China at the time and eventually adopted a revised, cautious national housing reform policy
incorporating gradual rent increases and other steps, as described in Section 2.C. At the same time,
agreement was reached that the Bank Group would help develop an operational model of an alternative
strategy and test it in selected cities prepared to carry out bolder reforms. In view of the Bank Group's
assistance focus on enterprise systems reform, it was decided that the project would also include
assistance for divestiture of enterprise social security burdens, another important enterprise reform
constraint. This component would include modest assistance to responsible central authorities to refine
and implement national policy guidelines.
3.2      In late 1991, a Bank Group mission visited several cities in China to explore options for the
project. In view of the far-reaching reforms necessary, it was decided that they would be implemented
in municipalities selected competitively on the basis of the following criteria:
(a) a demonstrated willingness and capacity to carry out the fundamental reform strategies as
outlined in Section 2.C;
(b) representativeness in terms of location and population size; and
(c)  likely demonstration effect if included under the project.
Project Cities
3.3      The Government selected a short list of fourteen candidate cities, representing a wide range
of size and location. Among these were several municipalities that had participated in earlier housing
reform experiments. After the proposed reform framework was discussed between a Bank Group
identification mission and the representatives from each of the short-listed municipalities in early 1992,
the five municipalities of Beijing, Chengdu, Guanghan, Ningbo, and Yantai were selected. Shanghai
municipality later joined the list but decided in 1993 not to participate in the project. It would instead
concentrate on implementing an alternative housing reform program, begun in 1992, which focuses on
increasing housing construction by mobilization of "housing provident funds" (refer to para 2.13) rather
than by pricing reforms and related measures. Later, Guanghan municipality was unable to participate
in the project as it was reluctant to take the major step of raising the rents on the agreed timetable. These



- 16 -
developments were symptomatic of the difficulties involved in commercialization of housing and the
consequent lack of national consensus and demonstrated model on how to proceed with housing reform.
3.4      The four municipalities participating in the project represent a sample of large and medium-
sized cities of China: Beijing has about 6 million permanent urban residents, Chengdu 3 million, Ningbo
600,000, and Yantai 450,000. It is significant that the cities of Chengdu, Ningbo, and Yantai are among
the 18 (mostly medium-sized) cities chosen recently for the Government's Comprehensive Pilot Reform
Program to change enterprise, labor, housing, and social security systems. It is also significant that
Yantai and Chengdu have carried out reform experiments that involved significant rent increases, housing
sale, and new housing management or finance institutions. Although these experiments fell far short of
market-based operations, they were significantly bolder, compared with the gradual reforms carried out
nationally, so as to demonstrate the value of a transition to a market-based housing system. Chengdu,
the capital of Sichuan province (110 million population), also has been active in advancing the reforms
in social security. Annex 1 outlines the profiles of the participating cities and their reform programs.
B. OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE
3.5      Project Objectives. The project will support the implementation of a strategy to develop a
market-based housing system and a robust social safety net, freeing enterprises of parallel responsibilities,
and thus helping promote labor mobility, enterprise restructuring and management improvement. Tested
and developed in the four selected municipalities, the new models can be replicated in other cities in
China. Features of the models and strategy, discussed in Chapter 2, include: autonomous for-profit
companies specializing in housing delivery direct to consumers, taking over housing stock owned and
operated by enterprises; commercially viable housing rents and sales prices; cash wage supplements that
compensate for rent increases; market-oriented long-term mortgage lending operations for owner-occupied
and rental housing; policy and regulatory framework that allows sustainable operation of the housing
management and finance institutions; comprehensive pools of retirement pension, health insurance, and
employment services managed centrally by specialized municipal agencies; and enterprises freed of
responsibility for directly providing and managing worker housing and social security benefits.
3.6      Rationale for Bank Group Involvement. The new systems to be established under the project
will help increase the efficiency and sustainability of the housing and social security systems, which
represent a large and increasing part of the national economy. At the same time, the new systems will
ease a critical obstacle to urban labor market development and enterprise restructuring. The project will
establish basic frameworks that provide for increased private investment in housing, growth of small and
private enterprises due to reduced entry costs, as well as continued development of social security
management capacity and related regulations. Thus the project represents a key element of the Bank
Group's country assistance strategy, to facilitate China's transition to a market economy by supporting,
among others, innovative and flexible approaches to establishing appropriate frameworks for wide-ranging
reforms. The Bank Group's involvement and experience in China's reform process and in policy and
institutional development elsewhere would be helpful in integrating diverse elements of the necessary
frameworks. The transition from a housing finance system dependent on enterprises and forced savings
to one based on market resources would leave an interim funding gap that can be bridged with Bank
Group financing.



- 17 -
C. SYSTEMS REFORM ACTIONS
Housing and Wages
3.7     In the four project cities, the strategy to establish a market-based housing system, as described
in Section 2.B above, will be implemented. This would include the following actions, many of which
have already been implemented:
(a)  Several joint-stock Housing Management Companies (HMCs) will be created in each city, with
the housing stock that participating enterprises will contribute as equity capital;
(b) The HMCs will rent and sell housing at prices that recover all costs, initially giving preference
to employees of participating enterprises;
(c)  Participating enterprises will provide cash wage supplements to compensate for the average
rent increases, monetizing the in-kind housing benefit and funded partly by dividends from
HMCs; but the enterprises will no longer provide or maintain housing for their workers;
(d) Participating financial intermediaries (PFIs, two in each city) will mobilize market funds and
provide long-term mortgage loans at competitive rates; and
(e)  Regulatory framework governing the definition and enforcement of property rights, including
mortgage and condominium rights, needed to safeguard operation of HMC and mortgage
lending will be strengthened.
3.8     Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the project municipalities would carry out
their respective housing systems reform programs and related technical assistance programs (see paras
3.23 and 3. 25) according to time-bound action plans satisfactory to the Bank Group. The housing and
wage reforms would start with enterprises that are willing to turn over their housing and join the HMC
system and able to provide necessary wage adjustments. By April 1993, pre-incorporation conferences
approved draft charters of at least one HMC in each project city. By appraisal in October 1993, these
HMCs had been formally incorporated, with enterprises pledging housing stock with total floor space of
about 1.5 million m2. By the time of negotiations, this housing stock had been valued and transferred,
and the rents and wages adjusted. While most of the enterprises joining the HMC system will do so by
turning over worker housing in return for HMC shares, others with little housing stock will be allowed
to join by contributing cash equity. Each HMC is projected to manage between 5,000 and 15,000
apartment units. The number of HMCs will increase over time during of the project period, so that by
2000, about 20% of the urban enterprise workers of Beijing and Chengdu are expected to be covered,
70% of Ningbo's, and virtually the entire population of Yantai. The coverage and schedules of housing
reform under the project are summarized in Table 3.1. Rent and wage adjustments are described in the
paragraphs below and Annex 2, which have been incorporated in formal plans of action. Mortgage
lending arrangements are discussed in Section 3.D below, which will be the basis of re-lending
agreements between the municipalities and PFIs. Institutional, financial and legal frameworks were
strengthened during project preparation, and are discussed in Chapter 4 and Annexes 3 and 8.
3.9      HMCs will charge housing rents and sales prices to recover all costs, including the cost of land
lease, plus an allowance for profit. The minimum rents will include all current and capital costs of
housing, or the so-called eight factors -- current costs of operation and management, depreciation (3%
on structure and straight-line depreciation of land lease), return on investment (4-5 %), property and land
use taxes where applicable, insurance, and profits. However, for a limited number of years in Yantai
and Chengdu, the minimum rents for existing housing will cover the so-called five factors -- excluding



- 18 -
profits, insurance, and land use tax (which is not applicable in other cases either) from the full eight
factors (refer to Table 3.1). The basis of rent calculation, for both new and existing housing, is to be
the cost of new housing construction current each year, adjusted for quality and location. Therefore,
rents, even at the 5-factor level, will cover the long-run marginal cost of housing. According to
completed valuations, the housing stock being transferred to the first HMCs is valued on average at 75 %-
85 % of the costs of new housing, depending on the city. Although HMCs will be allowed to charge rents
higher than the specified minimum, HMC shareholders, employers of most of the tenants, are initially
likely to keep rents near the minimum specified levels. As the HMCs begin to cater to a wider public
and the separation between employment and housing provision grows clearer, rents and sales prices are
expected to be set increasingly at market-clearing levels.
TABLE 3.1   SUMMARY OF REFORM ACTION PLANS OF THE FIVE CITIES
Beiiing   Chengdu   Ningbo   Yantai      Total
HOUSING
Project Coverage. 1994
Participating Workers '000         92        93        50       60        275
Existing Housing    '000 m2       550       610       480       550       2290
Number of HMCs                      1         1        2         1          5
Proiect Coverage, cumulative by 2000
Participating Workers '000        750       350       300       250       1650
Housing 'million m2
Existing                         7.0       3.5      3.0       2.5       16.0
New (Estimate)                   2.6       1.4       1.1      0.9        6.0
Minimum Number of HMCs             10        6         4        4         24
Rent Reform Time Table: Year when rents for existing housing will cover S or 8 factors of cost (Refer to para
3.9). All new housing units built under the project will cover the 8 factors from 1994.
S factors  from year              N/A       1994      N/A       1994
8 factors  from year              1994      2000      1994      1995
Average Rent in 1994, Yuan/n2     11.5       7.5       8.4      6.9       8.9
SOCIAL SECURITY
Year by which to establish:
Comprehensive Pension Pool        1998      1993      1994      1994
Major Medical Insurance Pool      1996      1993      1994      1995
Centralized Pension Management    1997      1996      1997      1997
3.10     Most enterprises have queues of workers who have been waiting for many years to be allocated
housing. The new rents are expected to reduce the excess demand for housing that exists in every city.
However, the consumption adjustment process will take time and demand could still exceed housing that
HMCs can provide in the near term. In view of this, rationing would be inevitable for the initial period
but will be limited by a priority system as follows. First preference in allocation of vacant units will be
given to tenants wishing to relocate, in order to facilitate the process of consumption adjustment. For
additional housing allocation, the HMC will issue each shareholder a number of priority rights in
proportion to the number of shares subscribed. The total number of priority rights issued will be up to
25% of HMC housing stock, or an equivalent of two or three years of housing construction. The
enterprises will not be involved in housing unit allocation beyond distributing the priority rights.



- 19 -
3.11     Wages (and pensions) will be adjusted to compensate for radically higher rents. The wage and
rent adjustments would not, however, be exactly offsetting for all individual workers. Rather, the wage
adjustments would be based on the average housing occupied by persons comparable in rank, seniority,
and other defined job characteristics. These job-related factors are reflected, however imperfectly, in the
total compensation paid currently to workers, including housing. Therefore, the wage adjustment for an
individual will be approximately, but not always, the same as the rent increases. A transitional excess
housing allowance will be granted to soften the negative impact on those whose wage adjustments are
short of the rent increases -- those who are occupying housing far larger than comparable workers and
those whose spouse's employer fails to pay the necessary wage adjustment. This allowance will be
phased out over three years, and the resources used for wage adjustments for workers initially without
housing units, who therefore were not included in the initial wage adjustment. (Refer to paras 2.20 and
2.21). Further details of rent and wage reforms are described in Annex 2.
Social Security
3.12     To accelerate and enhance the on-going social security systems reform programs, each of the
project municipalities will carry out the following:
(a) Establishment or extension of retirement pension, work injury insurance, unemployment
insurance, and health insurance pools covering all enterprises within each city;
(b) Refinement of the benefit and contribution formulae for the above, to require individual
contribution and to link benefits better with resources and needs;
(c)  Implementation of improved health care payment methods and cost containment measures; and
(d) Building capacities of municipal agencies to manage the above pools, to take over most of the
administrative tasks from the enterprises.
3.13     Many of these steps have already been carried out during project preparation. For example,
the four municipalities had, by October 1993, begun requiring all beneficiaries to contribute to the
pension funds, to go along with enterprises' contributions; and revised pension formula in Chengdu
guarantees a minimum safety net through indexation and provision of a basic floor, and reflect the level
and length of individual earnings. Target dates for some of the reform actions are listed in Table 3.1 and
further actions are described in Annex 9. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that each project
municipality would carry out its social security systems reform programs including related technical
assistance (see para 3.26) according to a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank Group.
3.14     To support the municipal reform efforts and develop a national policy framework consistent
with them, the Government will, through the joint efforts of the Ministry of Labor (MOL), Ministry of
Public Health (MOPH), Ministry of Finance (MOF), State Planning Commission (SPC) and Systems
Reform Commission (SRC):
(a) Develop a framework of social security and health care information systems;
(b) Monitor and disseminate policy analysis and reform experiences in the project cities;
(c) Develop and revise details of national guidelines for pension, work injury insurance,
unemployment insurance and related services, and health insurance reforms.



- 20 -
D. HOUSING MORTGAGE LOANS
3.15     Most of the Bank Group financing will be used by participating financial intermediaries (PFIs,
two in each city) to partly finance long-term housing mortgage loans. This will serve two purposes: to
help establish a new market-based housing finance system (para 3.7 (d)); and to help fill the transitional
funding gap arising in the process of replacing the "housing funds" mobilized from enterprises with
resources mobilized from the market. As this replacement process is expected to proceed gradually, the
Bank Group financing will be provided in a sliding scale: up to 65% of the amount of eligible loans
disbursed up to the end of 1996, 50% of such loans disbursed from then to the end of 1998, and 40%
of loans disbursed thereafter. In aggregate, Bank Group financing, about US$325 million, is expected
to account for about 50% of the total mortgage loans made by PFIs during the project.
3.16     The Bank Group funds will be made available to PFIs on a first-come, first-served basis,
without predetermined allocation between the two PFIs in each city or between individual and HMC
loans. Two types of housing mortgage loans will be eligible for financing under the project: loans for
individuals to purchase new housing offered by HMCs for sale; and loans for HMCs to purchase or build
new rental housing stock or rehabilitate rental stock. Both types of loans will have a maturity of 20
years. The interest rate on each loan, set by each PFI according to its lending policies acceptable to the
Bank Group, will be variable every two years and will be at least one percent over the rate for 3-year
ordinary investment ("capital construction") loans, set by the People's Bank of China (PBC), or an
equivalent reference rate acceptable to the Bank Group. Such mortgage loan rates will be the highest
among formal lending rates available from local banks, and provide for a spread of about 2.5 %-3 % over
the rate on two-year term deposits, the most popular household savings instrument. The administered
interest rate structure is adjusted periodically along with general price movements. Understanding was
reached during negotiations that these mortgage terms would be subject to review and modification during
project implementation, so as to ensure that the terms are consistent with market-based resource
mobilization and financial sector development (para 5.10).
3.17     Loans for individual homeownership will finance up to 70% of the purchase price of the
housing. These loans will be secured by the lien on the housing purchased, appraised according to
conmmon mortgage lending practices in market economies, and will be repaid in equal installments of
interest and principal.
3.18     Loans to HMCs will normally cover up to 80% of the cost of purchase or construction of new
rental housing. In view of start-up costs including those for establishment and land lease, loans up to
90% of the capital expenditures may be given during the first year of operation of the eligible HMC.
Loans financing construction of HMC rental housing will be disbursed according to progress, and
principal repayment will be deferred for up to 2 years or the actual construction period, whichever is
shorter. An HMC's acquisition or construction of housing for sale would not be eligible for long-term
financing, although individuals purchasing such units will be eligible for individual mortgage loans. PFIs
are expected to provide HMCs with short-term bridge loans, but such bridge loans or mortgage loans for
purchase of existing occupied units will not be eligible for financing under the project.
3.19     HMC loans will include unique conditions that reflect the current characteristic of the HMCs
and the housing market. In view of the likely pattern of growth in debt service burdens of a typical
HMC, the loan will be repaid in equal amortization of principal, i.e., with interest payments declining
over time at a given interest rate. As foreclosure sale of a large number of rental units is likely to be
difficult in the near future, the borrower will be required to pledge as collateral its rental units that will
generate net cash flow equivalent to at least 150% of the initial loan repayment, and that are generating,
at the time of loan appraisal, net cash flow more than 120% of the initial loan repayment. In the event
of default, the lender may foreclose on the mortgaged property using streamlined statutory procedures



- 21 -
and either sell the property or collect rental revenue using a management agent. The lender will assess
not only the collateral, but also the viability of new housing being purchased or built, and financial status
of the HMCs. Important points of appraisal will include reasonableness of costs and inco-me projections
of the new housing being financed, the borrower's debt-equity position, and the extent of capital
exposure. Prior review by the Bank Group will be required for the first two HMC loans made by each
PFI and, thereafter, any single mortgage loan over US$7.5 million. The Bank Group may adjust this
threshold from time to time to ensure adequate number of loans are reviewed from each city each year.
3.20     The Bank Group financing will be limited to mortgage loans for housing which has never been
occupied before, and may not exceed construction expenditures for the housing incurred after April 1,
1993. The PFI making the mortgage loan will be responsible for examining the construction accounts
to verify that these limitations are complied with. These limitations are to ensure that the Bank Group
funds are used only for productive purposes. The time limit, April 1, 1993, has been set in view of the
fact that pre-incorporation of the first HMCs had been completed by then. Given the fact that housing
construction usually takes about two years, however, this time limit is expected to leave room for
financing for HMCs to procure housing under construction or awaiting occupation; such housing would
have been purchased by participating enterprises if their housing delivery functions were not taken over
by the HMCs. It is estimated that only about US$3 million of the loan/credit will be applied toward
financing procurement of housing currently under construction or awaiting occupation. This limit related
to housing construction expenditures is to be distinguished from limitations on timing of mortgage loan
disbursements by PFIs that may be financed retroactively up to a certain aggregate amount (para 5.15).
3.21    Assurances were obtained during negotiations that PFIs would make mortgage loans on terms
and conditions and according to appraisal criteria satisfactory to the Bank Group. The terms, conditions
and appraisal criteria will include those described above in this Section and the appraisal criteria and
procedures described in Annex 5, as confirmed with the PFIs and the Government.
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRANING
3.22     As the project involves establishing new institutions and practices or strengthening existing
ones, there is a large need for technical assistance and training (TA). Project preparation to establish or
strengthen a minimum necessary institutional framework has been helped with considerable TA financed
largely by the Japan Grant Facility (JGF) and by an Australian Development Assistance Grant. During
the project, further TA and procurement of equipment required for developing management institutions,
policies, and regulatory frameworks will be supported, as summarized below.
3.23     TA programs for HMCs, to be managed by municipalities (detailed in Annex 3; at a total
estimated cost of US$4.8 million including contingencies), will be directed at:
(a)  Development and computerization of accounting and management information systems,
including property and customer registers;
(b) Development of residential property management and development systems and manuals; and
(c)  Establishment and operation of training programs for operators in each city as well as
centralized training for middle and senior management.
3.24     The participating rmancial intermediaries will undertake TA (details in Annex 6; total cost
US$2.5 million including contingencies) aimed at:



- 22 -
(a) Improvement of mortgage loan appraisal and servicing procedures, including revision of
relevant manuals;
(b) A study to recommend improvements in housing finance practices and environment - resource
mobilization and lending instruments, and asset-liability management;
(c) Development and computerization of mortgage servicing systems and adoption of the new
accounting system;
(d) Training of staff and senior managers in the above topics; and
(e) Hands-on assistance for mortgage lending operations by a resident advisor.
3.25     Municipal housing reform offices (HROs) and associated bureaus will undertake TA (details
in Annex 3; total cost US$0.7 million including contingencies) for:
(a) Improving property rights and property registration systems;
(b) Improving property valuation capabilities; and
(c) Improving housing market monitoring and regulation.
3.26     Municipal labor and health bureaus will undertake TA  (details in Annex 10; total cost
US$15.6 million including contingencies) aimed at:
(a) Developing management systems for collection of contributions and payment of benefits for
pension, health, and unemployment insurance;
(b) Developing a model to project long-run costs and resources for social security systems;
(c)  Developing options for investing social security funds;
(d) Establishing the basis to expand labor exchange, job placement, training, small business
development, and other services for unemployed workers;
(e) Developing an information system on costs, utilization and quality of health services; and
(f) Studies to develop options for a health care cost reimbursement system and the financing and
coverage of health insurance.
3.27     The central government ministries concerned with social security (MOL, MOPH, SRC, SPC
and MOF) will undertake TA programs (details in Annex 10; total cost US$1.5 million including
contingencies) directed at:
(a)  Strengthening capabilities lo analyze and develop policy and operational guidelines for further
reform in the retirement pension, work injury, unemployment and health insurance systems;
(b) Establishing a health information system;
(c) Research on health care cost escalation, on alternative systems of paying providers, and the
management of health insurance systems; and



- 23 -
(d) Monitoring the progress of reforms undertaken by the project municipalities, to utilize the
lessons for the design of new reform policies.
F. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
3.28     A large part of expenditures under the project is subject to high expected inflation. It is
projected that construction costs are likely to increase faster than general price levels in Renminbi (RMB)
terms during the project period, especially in the early part, and urban labor costs even faster. Price
contingencies for all local expenditures under the project are estimated on the basis of the projected
construction cost escalation, and are expected to be about 56.8 % in RMB over the entire project period.
The exchange rate between the RMB Yuan and US Dollar is assumed to move along with purchasing
power parity defined by the relative movement of general price levels. As a result, the local price
contingencies expressed in US$ is projected to be about 30.1 % over the project period, compared with
11.3% for the foreign expenditures.  The price escalation factors used in estimating the price
contingencies are shown in Annex 11. The costs of TA and computerization are estimated by adding to
the base costs physical contingencies equivalent to 10% of the base cost and adding the price
contingencies as described. They are summarized by component in the preceding Section.
3.29     Most expenditures under the project consist of those for housing construction financed by a
combination of the Bank Group loan/credit proceeds, matching funds mobilized by PFIs, and self-
financing by borrowers. The Bank Group financing is expected to be matched about evenly, over the
project period, by the PFIs. Self-financing by borrowers can be estimated from expected behaviour of
different borrowers and the minimum self-financing specified for mortgage lending (Section 3.D). HMCs
will be by far the dominant users of the project financing. In the initial years after incorporation, they
will face a strong demand by shareholders for quick increases in housing supply and will need large cash
outlays to cover start-up costs. At the same time, they will have a large amount of existing housing to
pledge as collateral with no offsetting real estate debts. As a result, they are likely to borrow the
maximum available mortgage loans. In later years, however, many established HMCs would find it more
advantageous to use internal cash flow to finance a larger portion of their new housing acquisition, as
debt service burdens increase and opportunities for expansion become limited. Demand for individual
home loans is likely to be small in the initial years because homeownership and debt financing are
novelties and because potential home buyers have limited incomes and few assets. Experience has also
shown that individual home loan borrowers do not avail themselves of maximum allowed borrowing (70%
of cost under the project) for various reasons, including the relatively high ratio of housing cost to income
and a traditional aversion to debt.
3.30     Based on these considerations, it is projected that individual homeownership mortgage loans
would average 60% of housing purchase prices, accounting for about 20% of all mortgage loans made
under the project, and that HMCs will borrow the rest, for an average of 75 % of the cost of housing
acquisition. Under this projection, the Bank Group loan/credit for housing loans (about US$325 million)
would support about US$650 million (Yuan 7,000 million) in mortgage loans which would in turn support
housing construction costing about US$925 million or Yuan 9945 million in current prices. These
expenditures would finance construction of about 6 million m2 of housing, equivalent to about 120,000
apartment units. These expenditures will be mostly in local currency, but are estimated to contain indirect
foreign cost components of about 35%. The projected quantities of housing loans and construction,
summarized by city in Table 3.2, represent small proportions of total housing construction in all project
cities. The total cost of the project is estimated to be about US$950 million, or Y10,210 million,
including price contingencies of US$218 million or Yuan 3,200 million. Table 3.3 summarizes the costs
by component and financing.



- 24 -
Table 3.2 Estimated Housing Investment and Financing by City
Beiiing   Chengdu  Ningbo   Yantai    Total
Mortgage Loans, Yuan million    3,392    1,572    1,126      910      7,000
Total Housing Investment Financed
Yuan million           4,820    2,230    1,600    1,295      9,945
US$ million             449       207      149      120       925
million m'              2.56     1.35     1.08     0.88      5.87
@ Unit Cost, Yuan/m2
January 1994           1,200    1,050      950      950      1,115
Averaee Current Cost   1.881    1.646    1.490    1.490      1.697
Table 3.3 Summary of Project Cost and Financing
Project Costs*                            Local         Foreign       Total
---------------- US$ Million-------------
Technical Assistance and Training
Social Security                         2.8          10.7          13.5
Housing and Housing Finance             1.8           4.4           6.2
Total Base Cost                         4.6          15.1          19.7
Physical and Price Contingencies        1.9           3.4           5.3
Total TA in Current Prices              6.5          18.5          25.0
Total Cost of Housing Financed Partly
by the Project, in Current Prices     601.2         323.8         925.0
Total in Current Prices                  607.7         342.3         950.0
Financed by:
Local Banks                           325.0           -          325.0
Housing Management Companies
and Individual Homebuyers           274.5            -          274.5
Central and Municipal Governments       0.5           -            0.5
IBRD/IDA                                7.7         342.3        350.0
Total                               607.7         342.3         950.0
* Does not include supervision and management expenses, taxes or tariffs.



- 25 -
4. INSTITUTIONS AND FINANCES
A. CENTRAL AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
4.1          China's system of government is undergoing fundamental redefinition in its relationship
with society at large as well as within itself. As discussed in Chapter 1, devolution of production and
welfare responsibilities from Government to enterprises created or intensified problems linked to the
provision of in-kind benefits. The reforms discussed here will play an important part in the redefinition
of the Government's role. In the case of social security, the reform involves an unambiguous increase
in the role of specialized public institutions. The housing systems reform will redirect the Government's
role from that of directly guiding details of housing production and distribution decisions of enterprises
and builders to that of providing the regulatory and legal framework within which the market operates.
Government's role is likely to remain critical in leading and shaping the transition from old to new
systems, however, partly due to the Government's ownership and still considerable control of enterprises
but also due to the wide scope of issues and number of entities involved that require policy level direction
and coordination.
4.2           The government system is organized as a matrix: each local administrative unit reports
both to the respective line ministry of the central government and to the mayor and local people's
congress. Decentralization during the past decade has increased local autonomy and weakened sectoral,
vertical alignments. While the central government sets taxation and revenue sharing rules, local
governments are largely free to allocate resources within their jurisdictions. In general, central ministries
no longer issue detailed norms or control implementation and budgeting details of their local counterparts,
but limit their involvement to establishing general guidelines and standards. Local government units are
expected to adapt the guidelines to local situations and establish detailed implementation rules and plans.
The central government not only routinely approves local variations but actively encourages and promotes
local innovations, as experiments for national reforms.
4.3           Local autonomy varies to some extent with the level of local government, due to the
approval processes and the need for regulations to be consistent with those of the higher level of
government. Beijing municipality has the status of a province and is therefore more autonomous than
most municipalities. On the other hand, as the capital of the country, its constituents consist mainly of
entities directly controlled by the central government, limiting the municipal government's sphere of
direct influence. Other project municipalities enjoy more autonomy than most at comparable levels thanks
to the special status given to municipalities at the forefront of economic reform. Chengdu, Ningbo, and
Yantai municipalities are at the level below provinces but they have the "independent planning" status
which allows them to prepare their own economic and systems reform plans and report to the center
directly.
4.4          Traditionally, the Ministry of Construction (until 1987 the Ministry of Urban and Rural
Construction and Environmental Protection) has been principally responsible for housing. However, in
view of the need for housing reform and the wide range of the associated issues and interest groups, the
Government has established a Housing Systems Reform Leading Group directly under the State Council.
The Leading Group includes representatives not only of the Ministry of Construction, but also of the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the People's Bank of China (PBC), among others. The secretariat of the
Leading Group, the Housing Systems Reform Office (HRO) is established within the Systems Reform



- 26 -
Commission (SRC), a super-ministerial body in charge of coordinating economic systems reform. This
organizational arrangement is replicated at different levels of local government.
4.5           The fact that SRC and its HRO are not implementing line agencies makes the role of
municipal governments particularly important in housing reform. In most municipalities, HRO is led by
the Real Estate Management Bureau, traditionally responsible for housing, and the Construction
Commission, its supervising agency.  Other municipal agencies also play important roles: Land
Administration Bureau, which controls supply and pricing of land; Economic Commission, which
regulates industrial and commercial enterprises; Labor Bureau, which regulates wages and other labor
benefits; and Finance Bureau, which controls taxation and investment. Since the housing systems reform
in the project cities takes an approach and proceeds at a pace different from the ones applied nationally,
most necessary measures have been and will be formulated by these municipal government entities, with
the approval or exception granted by the central government.
B. SOCIAL SECURrIY ADMINISTRATION
4.6           Four ministries are involved in administering the social security system, each responsible
for a different type of workers and benefits. MOL is responsible for the social security benefits of urban
enterprise workers. MOPH is responsible for health insurance coverage for government employees,
university students and demobilized soldiers, and also for supervision of public hospitals which are the
main providers of health care. However, most benefits for government employees, except for health
care, are the responsibilities of the Ministry of Personnel; and the welfare of rural workers, social
assistance to the poor, and social relief to those adversely affected by natural disasters are the
responsibilities of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. These ministries help design the benefit programs in
their specific areas of responsibility and, through their provincial and local offices, administer the
benefits. In addition to these line ministries, central coordinating authorities such as the State Planning
Commission (SPC), SRC, and MOF participate in the design of policies and financing.
4.7           Segmentation of the social security administration in China constrains the portability of
benefits and limits risk-sharing across programs administered by different line ministries. It also adds
to administrative costs by not allowing the substantial economies of scale that can result from jointly
managing such tasks as the collection of contributions. In view of these problems, options to unify social
security administration under a single line of authority have been considered in the past. Although a
feasible solution is yet to be determined at the central level, stronger coordination has been possible
within most local governments, with the Labor Bureau playing a major role. Under the project, such
coordination will be further strengthened, including joint management of such functions as maintaining
the rolls of active and retired workers and collecting different social and health insurance premia.
4.8           Under the guidance of MOL, administration of social security benefits is undertaken by
local labor bureaus. Within a typical labor bureau, the employment services department is responsible
for unemployment insurance and employment support programs, while the social insurance department
deals with all other labor benefit programs -- pensions, retiree services, health benefits, work injury
compensation, and maternity benefits of enterprise workers. The social insurance department has
different divisions, each dealing with one type of program. In addition, when pooling of pensions began
in the mid-1980s, many municipalities set up municipal pension pool offices. Public hospitals and health
care of government employees are supervised by MOPH and local public health bureaus.
4.9           As discussed in Sections 1.C and 2.D above, however, most of the social security
schemes are funded and managed by enterprises. As a result, the public agencies carry out little of the
actual management tasks. Even in the case of retirement pension pools, the function of a typical
municipal pension management office is limited to collecting summary statistics by enterprise and



- 27 -
redistributing deficits and surpluses among enterprises. For health care, although insurance schemes have
been established in some enterprises, they are little more than tax-deductible expense categories, as the
costs are paid by the enterprise as they arise without requiring workers contributions. Therefore, the role
of the labor bureau as the supervisory agency remains marginal. A health insurance management office
under the public health bureau performs the function of an in-house health care office as it deals only with
health care coverage for government employees.
4.10          Due to the relative absence of direct management tasks, the elaborate administrative
apparatus of most labor bureaus and public health bureaus lacks adequate staffing, skill, and equipment
to handle large data processing and benefits delivery. In order to establish a social security system
separated from individual enterprises, therefore, it is essential to strengthen the capacity of the municipal
labor bureaus, public health bureaus and social insurance agencies (SIAs) to enable them to take over
much of the benefit delivery and management responsibilities from the enterprises. As mentioned in para
4.7 above, the project municipalities will move toward consolidating various insurance management tasks
under a SIA. It is also important, given the experimental stage of the social security reform when
continuous evaluation and revision of new systems are necessary, that the capacity for policy analysis is
strengthened.
4.11          As discussed in Section 2.D, retirement pensions are funded on a pay-as-you-go basis by
transferring funds from enterprises whose contributions exceed their retirees' pensions to enterprises in
the pension pool that run deficits. Any overall surplus, if at all, tends to be small. In contrast, a large
part of pension funds for SOE contract workers and the unemployment insurance funds remain unspent
and accumulated. Most of the surplus funds from these as well as the pension pool are mainly kept as
fixed-term deposits in the banks. Some are also invested in government securities, corporate bonds and
even local development projects. Partly because the contract worker pension will be pooled together with
other pension funds and partly because of the projected pattern of population aging, a partial prefunding
of the pension will be started or planned under the project and the funds investment method will be
improved. One of the TA activities supported under the project will be to examine the future resources
and needs for pension and social insurance benefits and explore different benefit, contribution and funding
formulae.
C. HOUSING MANAGEMENT COMPANiES AND THE ENTERPRISES
4.12          HMCs are organized by participating enterprises mainly to divest themselves of direct
responsibilities to provide and manage worker housing. As such, each HMC is capitalized for the most
part with worker housing turned over by the participating enterprises. In return, the enterprises receive
HMC shares that entitle them not only to customary ownership rights, including votes in shareholder
meetings and dividend distribution, but also to preferential access to housing for their employees during
the initial period. This privilege would be particularly attractive to young enterprises which own
relatively little housing; they could contribute cash or land for additional shares. The shares are all
common shares, without distinction among forms of equity contributed. However, enterprises with
different needs will be allowed to trade rights to dividends with rights to priority housing allocation. In
order to avoid excessive reliance on any one enterprise, no shareholder will be allowed to hold more than
20% of the shares except in initial years after incorporation.
4.13          Participating enterprises will control the HMC's affairs by voting in shareholder meetings,
normally convened annually, reviewing and approving major company policies and programs including
budgets and dividends. Shareholders will exercise their ownership control mainly through electing or
dismissing the executive board of directors, which will have between 5 and 20 members, and a board of
supervisors, comprising 3 to 5 members. The executive boards will meet, in full or in management
committee, at least every two months to oversee operations, approve budgets and associated operating



- 28 -
plans, select key management personnel, and decide annual dividends. A general manager, who normally
will be a director of the board, controls the day-to-day operation of the HMC.
4.14          One of the major technical tasks in incorporating a HMC is valuation of the properties
transferred as paid-in equity. As the basis of determining the number of equity shares and subsequently
rents of different apartments, it is essential that valuation be professionally done, with results acceptable
by participating enterprises. In Beijing and Chengdu, substantial number of market transactions have
taken place, enabling valuation of housing and land based on market comparison. In others, buildings
are valued on the basis of the replacement cost of an apartment, appropriately discounted for age and
location. Land lease values are established through negotiations between the local Land Administration
Bureau and the HMC or enterprise, or through auction. Enterprise housing is to be transferred with full
ownership rights and associated responsibilities and land, with land use rights converted to long-term land
lease by the enterprise or by the HMC so that the properties may be sold or mortgaged without
government approval.
4.15          Managing rental housing will be the HMCs' core business. HMCs' primary business will
also include acquisition or development of new housing for expansion of the rental stock and for sale to
participating enterprise workers. Further, as opportunities arise consistent with its primary operation,
an HMC will develop, rent, or sell a limited amount of commercial properties and high-income
"commodity" housing.  The various activities of an HMC generate different risks and rewards,
particularly given short-term expectations of participating enterprises for dividends and capital expansion.
It will be necessary, therefore, for the HMC executive board to limit the extent of capital investment in
general, and of secondary activities in particular, to prudent levels. The existing housing stock turned
over from the participating enterprises will have been fully paid for and therefore will provide
considerable cash flow (depreciation and return on investment) and dividends. New rental stock will, on
the other hand, will require not only cash outlay for acquisition but also debt service, which will exceed
revenue generated for several years and thus depress an HMC's overall cash flow and dividends in the
short term. Acquiring or developing new housing for sale could be profitable but is likely to involve
higher risks, especially in the initial years when demand for owner-occupied housing is uncertain. The
long-term mortgage loans to be partly financed by the Bank Group will not be available for such
acquisition of housing for sale. Further, any such ventures costing more than 10% of a HMC's equity
will be considered a major capital risk in appraising other types of loans to the HMC, unless justified by
the prior sales records.
4.16          A typical HMC will be organized in five functional divisions reporting directly to the
general manager: estate management, customer services, finance, acquisition and development, and
general administration. An HMC will maintain a small core of professional staff for financial control,
planning and contract management as well as field staff for routine maintenance and customer services,
recruited through an open selection process.  Specialized maintenance, construction, and other
professional services will be contracted out to specialist firms. The organizational structure of an HMC
and the technical assistance program to help develop accounting, operational, and strategic systems are
described in more detail in Annex 3.
4.17          Under the current system, most enterprises deploy their own staff to operate and maintain
their housing stock. Except for a few large enterprises, they designate few workers to do these tasks
exclusively. Technical staff attend to housing matters as needed, and administrative work is often shared
through rotation. The entire set of management activities related to the rental stock is to be taken over
by the HMC staff and contractors upon transfer of the housing, except that rents may be collected through
salary deduction on the tenant's written agreement. When an enterprise joins a HMC, its excess labor
will be absorbed in its core business activities or be eliminated over time. For large enterprises with their



- 29 -
own housing crew, workers might be recruited by the HMC individually or organize themselves to
compete for operations and maintenance contracts.
D. TAXES AND FINANCES
4.18           The HMC generates transactions that formerly have remained non-monetized as in-kind
benefits: housing rents, cash wage supplements, HMC profits and dividends. These would normally be
subject to business and property taxes, personal income tax, and corporate income tax, under the current
tax code. However, in view of the fact that these amount to nothing more than explicit accounting of
untaxed transactions implicit in the current housing delivery system, the Government has granted
exemptions of these taxes for the first two years of the project, when they will be reviewed and extended
if still justified. The HMC's operations for clients other than participating enterprise employees, such
as sale of commodity housing, would be subject to usual business and income taxation.
4.19           For an enterprise to join an HMC, a critical condition is the ability to provide wage
supplements necessary to compensate for the rents the HMC will charge. While part of the wage
adjustment would be funded with HMC dividends, the major portion would have to be funded by savings
in housing expenditures incurred before joining the HMC. According to national tax rules presently
undergoing revision, housing expenditures, along with bonus and welfare payments, are in principle paid
out of a Welfare Special Fund which is allocated from after-tax income. However, as discussed earlier,
enterprises frequently do not distinguish housing operation and maintenance from business operations.
Further, many even include depreciation and interest expenses due to housing with those of production
facilities. These practices are related to the "contract management" system, vary among localities and
businesses, but often include a certain amount of tax payments as a performance goal. In view of this,
different project municipalities will allow major (but different) proportions of wage supplements to be
included as part of the production expenses.
4.20           With these exemptions and accounting allowances, the housing reform is expected to
have a neutral effect on government tax revenues. The project would involve two other measures
affecting municipal finance: land lease and off-site infrastructure. Municipal governments commonly
require developers to build, entirely or partly at their own expense, such facilities as schools and main
roads that benefit a much larger population than the intended residential occupants. HMCs will be
required to build only facilities that are directly needed for their housing developments. On the other
hand, partly off-setting the negative impact on municipal finance, the HMCs or the participating
enterprises will make lease payments for land occupied by existing and new housing, something other
owners of existing housing are not required to do. In the medium-term, as part of the project monitoring,
various fiscal impacts of the new housing system will have to be closely evaluated with a view toward
developing an effective and equitable system of tax and charges.
4.21           Financial projections have been prepared for all HMCs established by the end of 1993,
reflecting current operational plans. A sample is shown in Annex 4, along with an explanation of
assumptions used and sensitivity analysis. Diskettes containing projections for all HMCs are available
in the Project File. The Annex also presents a summary of similar projections for the entire HMC system
in each city, based on the schedule of project coverage expansion. Annex 4 (Table 3) shows a pro forma
projection that compares implications of new and old systems of housing delivery on enterprise
expenditures and worker housing, based on the same assumptions used in the HMC project with a few
simplifications. The projections show that HMCs will be able to generate considerable cash flow and
dividends even if they increase the standards of operation and maintenance to much higher levels than
current; and increase housing supply faster than possible under the current system, while requiring
enterprises to incur no more expenditures for wage supplements than those for housing. The sensitivity
analysis shows that the levels of interest rate and capital investments have the most significant effect on



- 30 -
the financial viability of an HMC; and the debt-service ratio (ratio between cash flow from operations
and debt service) tends to be very sensitive to such key parameters. In order to evaluate long-term
financial impacts of their investment decisions, the HMCs would be required to continue to prepare and
refine their financial projections. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, as a condition of
borrowing mortgage loans, the HMC would be required to: prepare a 3-year projection of its operations
and finance and submit it to the PFI and Bank Group by October 31 of each year; and to maintain cash
flow from operations not less than 1.S times the total debt service.
E. FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARES
4.22           In each city, two banking units have been selected to provide mortgage financing under
the project. This arrangement is intended to (i) ensure competition while keeping the institutional
development task manageable, and (ii) support experimentation with two different models of housing
finance operation. One of the financial intermediaries is the Industry and Commerce Bank of China
(ICBC) branch, which will develop mortgage lending as one of its diverse commercial banking activities.
The other is one of the specialized housing finance institutions -- the Real Estate Credit and Loan
Departments (RECD) of the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) branches in Beijing, Chengdu,
and Ningbo, and the Yantai Housing Savings Bank (YHSB). Annex 7 presents a summary of financial
status of the PFIs and complete financial statements and projections of one of them. During project
implementation, other financial intermediaries, acceptable to the Bank Group, may be added to or
substituted for these PFIs if necessary and appropriate for implementing the project strategy.
4.23           ICBC is China's largest bank, holding more than a third of all banking assets in a typical
city. It is one of the four "specialized" national banks, traditionally focused on short-term lending and
deposit taking in urban areas. With gradual easing of business restrictions, however, it has diversified
into various other types of banking activities. Recently, especially since 1991, it has begun to offer short-
or medium-term loans for housing and other real estate. Under the project, its branches in the five
participating cities are expected to start offering long-term mortgage loans, diversifying its portfolio still
heavily dominated by short-term loans. The mortgage lending operation will be managed as a profit
center, drawing most of the necessary funds from the general savings within the branch as a whole.
4.24           PCBC is another of the "specialized" national banks, which originally focussed on
medium-term financing of fixed assets. Due to its traditional focus on fixed asset loans, PCBC was the
first specialized bank to offer mortgage financing and establish Real Estate Credit Departments (RECDs),
and is still the dominant housing lender in the country. RECDs are units of local PCBC branches and
are subject to the credit and operating policies of the latter. However, they keep independent accounts
and pay taxes to local governments, whereas other PCBC earnings are consolidated nationally and taxed
directly by the central government. Most local PCBC RECDs -- including those in Beijing, Chengdu and
Ningbo -- manage "housing funds" as the most important part of their business. The housing funds are
earmarked and mandatory deposits by enterprises and their workers are lent out for housing purchase or
construction by enterprises, in conformity with the local governments' housing policies. Under the
project, however, the housing funds will have to be replaced by competitive deposit mobilization. The
participating RECDs are therefore planning to draw on general deposits mobilized by the branch as a
whole and their own special housing deposits, tied with its housing loan facilities, to fund the new long-
term mortgage loans. These activities will be separated from any remaining housing fund operations.
4.25           In 1993, Government approved a plan to restructure the overall banking system
fundamentally, which would strengthen the People's Bank of China as an autonomous central bank, freed
from responsibilities to automatically finance fiscal deficits. In addition, the various specialized banks,
including PCBC and ICBC, would be reorganized as purely commercial banks. Their policy-based loans
would be either moved to new "policy" banks or otherwise administered independently from commercial



- 31 -
operations; the housing fund operations of RECDs based on low deposit and lending interest rates may
similarly be divested in this manner. The first of the policy banks, the State Development Bank, started
operating in early 1994 and two more are slated for establishment in the near future.
4.26           Yantai Housing Savings Bank (YHSB) was chartered as a local specialist bank in 1987
as part of the Government's housing reform experiment in selected cities, and gained considerable skills
in housing finance operation. Its ownership is shared by branches of the national specialized banks as
well as the municipal government. Its lending is restricted in general to housing and real estate related
loans. Due mainly to the limited opportunities for mortgage lending, its operation remains small, with
1992 total assets of Y950 million. Currently, it relies heavily on earmarked housing funds like PCBC's
RECDs (discussed above.) Unlike the latter, however, it does not have access to funds within a larger
banking system or interbank lending. Its only available alternative to the housing funds will be deposits
and bonds, a full range of which it is authorized to offer, subject to normal approval procedures. Given
its limited market base and range of banking services, however, increased deposit mobilization will be
possible only by offering higher deposit interests than competitors. This is allowed to a limited extent
under the current regulations. In order to maintain viability, however, it would need to be allowed to
expand its market area and range of services so as to compete evenly with other financial institutions.
4.27           Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, as a condition of re-lending to a
PFI, the PFI will be required to adoptfinancial and operating guidelines acceptable to the Bank Group.
These guidelines will include the requirement that the PFI shall maintain its housing mortgage loan
portfolio to meet the following performance criteria, some of which represent significant modifications
to general regulations, allowed by the Government as an experiment:
(a)   arrears in excess of three months shall be less than 2% of housing loans outstanding,
and shall be put on a non-accrual status;
(b)   foreclosure actions will be taken for arrears in excess of one year, and the account will
be reconciled by writing off any portion not recoverable;
(c)  loan loss provision shall be maintained at more than 1.0%, or at actual rate of loss
experienced in the previous two years, of housing loans outstanding; and
(d)  interest spread shall be over 1.8%.
4.28           The PFIs have adequate appraisal, accounting, and control procedures for general credit
operations. Proper operation of long-term mortgage loans and the new accounting system (introduced
since July 1993), however, will require considerable technical assistance and training which will be
carried out under the project (Refer to Section 3.1D and Annex 6). The local banking units are supervised
periodically by local branches of PBC, local government finance bureaus and, in the case of ICBC and
PCBC, the headquarters. However, the supervision is in general neither sufficiently frequent nor
substantive. The Bank Group is currently supporting a major technical assistance project to help
strengthen PBC's prudential regulation capability, among others. To develop policy and regulatory
capacity regarding housing finance, PBC officers at headquarters as well as at branches in the
participating cities will participate in the technical assistance and training carried out under this project.
F. PROPERTY RIGHTS AND LEGAL FRAmEWORK
4.29           Real Property Rights. There is a national legislative framework, supplemented by local
implementing regulations in each of the project cities, which allows individuals and firms to own



- 32 -
buildings or units within buildings, and to transfer and mortgage these ownership rights by contract. The
State owns all urban land and used to allocate "land use rights" for specific uses. However, a new legal
framework in effect since 1990 allows individuals and firms to obtain leasehold rights over urban land
for fixed periods of up to 70 years. Such leaseholds may be transferred or mortgaged by contract. Most
of the housing stock managed bv enterprises is based on allocated land use rights. These will be
converted into leaseholds either by the enterprises before transfer to the HMC or by the HMC after the
transfer.
4.30           Registration. Currently, urban land and building are regulated under two separate lines
of administration -- State Land Administration and Ministry of Construction, respectively. Accordingly,
the rights to land and buildings are usually recorded in two separate certificates issued by the local Land
Administration Bureau and Real Estate Management Bureau, respectively. This practice is not only
inefficient but could lead to inconsistencies. Given the difficulty of unifying different administrative lines,
some municipalities, including Beijing, are making efforts to better coordinate the two. The municipal
regulations in the project cities have been revised during project preparation to: cross-reference these
separate property records; allow for the recording of additional assignments or mortgages; and make them
more accessible for public review.
4.31           Condominimn Regime. Where individuals or firms own units in a building, they hold
an undivided interest in the common elements of the property. National regulations and existing local
regulations prescribe ways to deal with issues raised by mixed-ownership buildings and the management
of common elements, such as elevators or green spaces. During the project preparation, model
condominium regulations and management agreements were developed in each city. These provide a
unified framework for the creation and management of condominiums, including ways and means to
assess and collect common area expenses, and enforcement of liens for such expenses as needed. These
various requirements have been incorporated into local regulations and appropriate contract documents.
4.32           Landlord-Tenants Relations.  Civil law recognizes the rights of individuals and
enterprises to enter into contractual agreements, including leases. Failure of one party to fulfill its
contractual obligations gives the other party the right to take remedial measures and claim compensation
for its losses. Local regulations govern landlord-tenant relations in each project city. Model lease
agreements developed during project preparation spell out the rights and obligations of landlords and
tenants in detail. The circumstances under which a lease may be terminated are also specified. Existing
local regulations provide that if a lease is terminated and a tenant refuses to abandon the premises, the
landlord may seek a court order of eviction through streamlined procedures elaborated during project
preparation.
4.33           Mortgages. The concept of security interest in property is established in the Civil Code
and further interpreted by Supreme People's Court opinions. Furthermore, national laws regarding
building ownership and urban land leases specifically allow real property rights to be mortgaged. Under
general rules established in the Civil Law and Civil Procedure Law governing the relationship between
debtor and creditor, the mortgagor may seek a court-ordered sale of the property to recover the debt.
A national law on mortgage is currently under preparation, drawing upon local experiences. Under
another project now under preparation, the Bank Group would provide support for this effort. In the
absence of a national law, a few municipalities in China have established regulations relating to mortgage.
In most cases, however, mortgage loan contracts have been drawn up on the basis of internal rules of the
lending banks, which often require other guarantees in addition to the mortgaged properties. TA during
project preparation included providing examples of mortgage instruments, foreclosure procedures, and
registration of liens. Municipal regulations and PFIs' internal rules have been amended taking these into
consideration. These measures strengthen the existing basis for securing mortgages. However, the
existing instruments used for mortgage lending themselves have not been widely tested, and hence the



- 33 -
effect of the additional measures developed during project preparation is difficult to predict. During the
project mid-term review, the experience with mortgage lending will be evaluated with a view to defining
ways to strengthen the governing framework.
4.34           Dispute Resolution. While the Civil Code provides for arbitration and litigation to
resolve disputes on contracts and their performance, specific procedures for eviction or foreclosure are
not spelt out. In general, procedures for resolving disputes regarding properties are specified in more
detail at technical and local levels. Professional arbitration committees specialized in the settlement of
housing disputes already exist in each city. As eviction and foreclosure cases are increasing with growing
job mobility and experiments in mortgage lending, specific procedures on these matters are being
developed in many cities. As part of project preparation, procedures for eviction and foreclosure were
elaborated and adopted as local regulations. Participating municipal governments will set aside housing
designated for eventual redevelopment to provide temporary housing to persons who lose their housing
as a result of eviction or foreclosure proceedings.
4.35           HMCs. It has been a well-established practice to create a company (collectively-owned
enterprise) by pooling resources of several enterprises or a group of individuals. However, the HMCs
are among the first to be organized as joint stock companies with a formal structure and procedures in
line with common international models for public companies. The HMC charters have been established
on the basis of a guideline ("View on Norms of Joint Stock Companies" 1992) which, with minor
modifications, was incorporated into the Company Law of 1993. That Law provides a framework for
different types of companies. According to the Law and each HMC charter, ownership rights are
exercised in a customary fashion by votes proportionate to shares, to approve major policies and plans
and to elect or dismiss the board directors. The Law allows listing of shares of joint stock companies
which have met a set of minimum performance standards over the past three years.



- 34 -
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT PREPARATION
5.1      The following critical reform actions were completed prior to negotiations:
(a)  formal establishment of at least one HMC in each city, with satisfactory charter and
management staff;
(b) transfer to the HMCs of enterprise housing stock, amounting to 8-20% of all stock to be
brought under the new system over the project period in each city;
(c)  increase of rents of the transferred housing to commercially viable levels as described in para
3.9;
(d) provision of wage supplements to the affected workers of the participating enterprises as
described in para 3.11; and
(e)  adoption of municipal regulations supplementing the legal framework goveming exercise of
property rights by HMCs and PFIs.
5.2      The project, involving creation of new institutions and practices or significant modification of
existing ones, has required extensive preparation efforts. Since project identification, preparation efforts
were led by the participating municipal governments which, aside from establishing municipal regulations
and social security reforms programs, organized and guided the efforts of diverse concerned parties in
and outside the municipal govenmments. Public education campaigns were carried out to explain the new
housing and wage systems.  Later stage project preparation also benefitted from unusually active
involvement of the central government, which not only provided active encouragement for the project but
also allowed significant modifications to existing tax, accounting, and other formal regulations (see
Section 4.D). The Government formed a Central Coordinating Group (CCG, described in para 5.5
below) that identified constraints imposed by existing central regulations and helped obtain necessary
modifications or exemptions as well as coordinating activities of the participating municipalities and PFIs
to facilitate mutual learning.
5.3      Detailed technical work during the latter part of preparation was helped with consultant
assistance, much of which was financed by JGF and also by an Australian Development Assistance Grant.
Major technical assistance included: preparation of a model HMC charter and operating procedures;
assistance in initial operational planning and projections of HMCs and PFIs; assistance in valuation of
properties transferred to HMCs; technical guidelines for mortgage lending operations; models or examples
of legal instruments related to property rights, including those for condominium, mortgage financing,
foreclosure and eviction, and lease; and review and advice on social security benefit formula revision and
computerization plans. By the time of appraisal, the new HMCs had identified sites for their first
development projects and some had already secured leasehold to the sites and started design work. A
consultant has been selected and expected to commence work in June 1994 on the first TA for HMCs to
design and install initial accounting and management information systems. Draft consultant TOR and
computerization plans for the entire social security TA have also been completed.



- 35 -
B. RESPONSIBLE AGENCIES
5.4      Most of the specific project implementation activities will be carried out by HMCs, PFIs, and
the municipal and central government agencies benefitting from TA. As discussed in Section 4.A,
however, their activities are significantly influenced by the municipal and central governments. In order
to lead and coordinate the policy reforms, therefore, each of the municipalities has established a Project
Leading Group chaired by a Vice Mayor and including senior managers of relevant municipal government
units, PFIs, and PBC branches. To support the Leading Group and carry out day-to-day coordination
of project preparation and implementation, each municipality has established a Project Management Office
(PMO). PMOs are led by HROs and supported by the Finance Bureaus, except in Beijing where the
leadership role is reversed.  Main functions of the PMO will include: coordination of project
implementation and policy reform; monitoring and evaluation of project and reform progress; review of
project expenditures to ensure their consistency with the Loan, Credit, and Project Agreement; and
communication with the Bank Group.
5.5     Policies and regulations of the municipal governments in turn are framed by those of the
central government. Relevant central authorities include: MOF, MOL, MOPH, SPC, and SRC.
Similarly, operations of PFIs are regulated by the PBC and headquarters of ICBC and PCBC. To provide
national-level policy support for the project and to monitor, evaluate and disseminate the reform
experiences of the participating cities, the Government has established a Central Coordinating Group
(CCG) comprising representatives of these authorities and chaired by MOF. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Project Leading Groups, PMOs, and CCG would be maintained with
responsibilities and staffing satisfactory to the Bank Group, and that, as a condition of effectiveness, CCG
would assign staff in number and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank Group. Understanding was
reached during negotiations that CCG staff would include at least six full-time professionals with training
and experience in social security, finance, economics, housing and administration, and at least one staff
assistant.
5.6     Administration of Technical Assistance. Much of the TA requirements are common across
cities and much of the consultant services can be shared among cities and central implementing agencies.
In order to maximize efficiency and consistency, therefore, many parts of the TA would be managed
centrally rather than by each benefitting agency. Most foreign consultants and their national counterpart
will be recruited under consolidated contracts managed by CCG on behalf of the project cities as well as
the central authorities responsible for social security TA. The cost of such consultant contracts, except
those services exclusive to specific cities, will be shared by municipalities (and central agencies for their
part of the social security TA) in proportion to total loan/credit allocated to them. Centralized training
will be managed in the same fashion. Some overseas study tours may also be organized centrally.
Various agencies would need a large number of computers and related equipment, most of which share
essentially the same performance specifications. Procurement of such equipment will also be managed
by CCG, and the cost of the specific pieces will be charged back to individual agencies receiving them.
Within each city, TA for HMC development will be managed by PMO rather than individual HMCs,
since the results of TA need to be made available to HMCs created later. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that CCG would provide the assistance to the project municipalities and PFIs for
management of TA activities as described above.
C. ON-LENDING ARRANGEMENTS
5.7      The Bank Group will provide financing of US$350 million equivalent in total, consisting of
an IBRD loan of US$275 million equivalent on standard terms and maturity of 20 years including 5 years
grace, and an IDA Development Credit of SDR 53.1 million (US$75 million equivalent) on standard
terms and maturity of 35 years including 10 years grace. Of this, the Government will use US$1.5



- 36 -
million for the central TA for social security and health care. The Government will make available the
remaining US$348.5 million equivalent to the four participating municipal governments: Beijing
US$168.5 million, Chengdu US$80 million, Ningbo US$55 million, and Yantai US$45 million.
Loan/credit proceeds onlent to each municipality will be in the same blend of currencies as the loan and
the credit provided by the Bank Group, with a maturity of 20 years including 5 years grace, and an
interest rate equal to 87% of the IBRD rate. Municipal governments will bear the associated foreign
exchange risks except those passed on the PFIs as discussed below. Assurances were be obtained during
negotiations that the Government would make the loan/credit proceeds available to the municipalities on
terms described above.
5.8      Each municipal government will make a part of the loan/credit proceeds available to its own
bureaus and offices to finance expenditures on TA for developing social security, property rights and
HMC systems. The rest of the proceeds will be re-lent to PFIs in each city partly for technical
assistance, and mostly, on a first-come, first-served basis, to finance part of the eligible housing mortgage
loans. Assurances were obtained from each of thefour municipalities that it would relend part of the loan
and credit proceeds to PFIs satisfactory to the Bank Group, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank Group, forfinancing of eligible housing mortgage loans and TA. As a condition of participating
in the project, PFIs will be required to adopt satisfactory policies for their lending to final borrowers,
as discussed in Section 3.D. PFIs' mortgage loans to final borrowers will be in RMB. Agreements were
reached during negotiations that as a condition of disbursement of the loan/credit proceeds allocated to
each municipality for mortgage loans, the municipality concerned would enter into relending agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank Group, with at least two PFIs.
5.9      Two different sets of terms and conditions will apply to re-lending of the loan/credit proceeds
from the municipal governments to different PFIs. In most cases, the municipal government will bear
the foreign exchange risks and provide the PFI with RMB funds equivalent to the proceeds. The annual
interest rate will be variable and at least 1.0% greater than the annual compound rate equivalent of two-
year fixed term deposit rate, as published by PBC. The maturity will be 20 years including 5 years
grace. In other cases, to be applied in relending from Yantai municipal government to ICBC and YHSB,
the proceeds will be re-lent to and repayable by PFIs in U.S. dollars. The maturity will be the same as
above. In these cases, the interest rates will be negotiated between the municipality and the PFI so as
to provide a margin that will adequately cover credit and foreign exchange risks borne by the PFI. To
preclude subsidization by municipalities, assurances were be obtained during negotiations that the rate
would in no case be less than 0.5% above the rate for the loan/credit proceeds charged by the
Government to the municipalities.
5.10     These relending arrangements reflect the current difficulties in, and willingness to experiment
with, foreign exchange management within the banking systems. Currently, municipal governments have
substantial control over enterprises in their jurisdictions and therefore considerable experience and
capacity in matching foreign exchange demand and supplies among them. Further, their tax bases are
elastic to domestic inflation and hence provide a measure of protection against the foreign exchange risks.
On the other hand, at present there is no capital market instrument for PFIs to use to manage such risks.
It is also difficult to manage the foreign exchange demand and supply within each national bank partly
due to the difficulty of inter-regional capital transactions. PFIs' assumption of foreign exchange risks
in the small city of Yantai represents an experiment for such risk management. Understanding was
reached during negotiations that the terms of relending as well as the final lending would be reviewed
annually, whenever PBC revises the general interest structure, and when the municipality, PFI, or Bank
Group requests. The purpose would be to evaluate whether the terms adequately provide for market-
based housing systems development and market resource mobilization by PFIs, consistent with project
and financial sector development, and to agree on appropriate modifications to the terms if necessary
(para 7.3).



- 37 -
D. DISBURSEMENT
5.11    Although a standard disbursement profile has not yet been established for housing finance
operations supported by the Bank Group, disbursement under financial intermediary lending in general
has taken five and a half years to complete in the East Asia and Pacific Region and six years world-wide.
On the other hand, the comparable period for industrial development and finance projects in China stands
at eight years. The reform actions that are required for the mortgage lending operation by PFIs under
the project could constrain the disbursement speed. In view of these considerations, the project is
projected to be completed by December 31, 2000 and the loan and credit accounts will be closed on June
30, 2001. The projected disbursement profile is shown in Annex 11.
5.12     Special Accounts. Five separate Special Accounts will be maintained -- one for the central
TA expenditures, to be managed by MOF, and one for each of the four municipalities. An authorized
advance of US$400,000 will be initially deposited for the central Special Account, US$9.0 million for
Beijing, US$4.0 million for Chengdu, US$3.3 million for Ningbo, and US$2.8 million for Yantai, for
a total of US$19.5 million. These advances to the municipal Special Accounts are equivalent to average
projected disbursements for about four months. The authorized deposit for the central account is larger
than the four months' disbursement for central TA in order to facilitate disbursement for TA and
equipment procurement, contracts for which are small in aggregate but are expected to be relatively
lumpy. These arrangements were confirmed during negotiations. Application for replenishment would
be submitted to the Bank Group each month or whenever each Account is drawn down below 50% of
its initial deposit.
5.13    The proposed disbursement arrangements are shown in Table 5.1, and allocation by city in
Annex 12. Eligibility criteria of the mortgage loans are described in Section 3.D, including additional
limitations on Bank Group financing of the mortgage loans (para 3.20).
TABLE 5.1     DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Amount
Categorv     (US$ million) % of Expenditures to be Financed
(1) Goods          8.7    100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs); and
70% of local expenditures for other items procured locally
(2) Consultancy   15.8    100% of eligible expenditures
and Training
(3) Housing      325.5    65% of amounts paid under mortgage loans until December 31, 1996;
Loans                  50% of amounts paid under mortgage loans after December 31, 1996
until December 31, 1998; and
40% of amounts paid under mortgage loans after December 31, 1998.
Total        350.0
5.14     Documentation of Expenditures.  Full documentation will be required for withdrawal
applications for goods supply contracts valued at US$200,000 or more, consultant firm contracts valued
at US$100,000 or more, individual consultant contracts valued at US$50,000 or more, and mortgage
loans financing civil works contracts valued at US$7.5 million or more. Expenditures for others may



- 38 -
be disbursed the basis of Statements of Expenditures. PFIs will be primarily responsible for verifying
and documenting compliance of mortgage loans they make with agreed conditions. PMOs (and CCG for
the central Account) will verify that expenditures are made for the purposes of the project, maintain the
documents supporting the Statements of Expenditures, and make them available for review by the Bank
Group on request. The municipal Finance Bureaus (and MOF) will certify the statements, prepare and
submit withdrawal applications to the Bank Group, and manage the Special Accounts.
5.15     Retroactive Financing. Reform actions started in substance in the middle of 1993 to lay the
ground for the project. To support early implementation to follow up these reform actions, payments
made after October 25, 1993 for technical assistance expenditures and under housing mortgage loans and
agreed upon by the Bank Group will be retroactively financed, up to a total of US$35 million equivalent.
E. PROCUREMENT
5.16     Housing Procurement. In most part, the project will finance part of the eligible mortgage
loans made by 8 or more PFIs for more than 20 HMCs to build or purchase new housing for rental
purposes, mostly walk-up or high-rise apartment buildings. As for-profit entities, HMCs are expected
to seek the best available procurement through prudent evaluation of both market demand and supply.
For development of new housing or rehabilitation of existing housing, HMCs will award civil works
contracts through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank Group. A review
of completed housing construction projects in Chengdu shows that most of them range in size from about
30,000 m2 to 80,000 m2 of floor area, or about 600 to 1,500 apartment units. Some of these projects
were constructed as parts of larger development schemes implemented over many phases. This size range
also coincides with the scope of investment that can be financed annually by a typical HMC, that would
have between 250,000 m2 and 800,000 m2 of existing housing assets. Construction costs of these typical
projects, in today's prices, would range from about US$3 million to US$10 million, depending on size
and city. Any civil works procurement package estimated to cost US$7.5 million or more will be subject
to the Bank Group's prior review. In addition, bidding documents and procedures will be reviewed as
part of the Bank Group's prior review of mortgage loan packages (para 3.20). These loan or works
packages are expected to include about 40 largest civil works contracts with a total value of about US$270
million, or about 75% of all civil works procurement value.
5.17     HMCs may choose to procure new housing from real estate developers, in order to focus on
delivery of housing to users rather than on developing it, or to take advantage of cyclical market
conditions. For such purchases, the HMC will obtain quotations for apartment buildings suitable for its
target market and compare them against expected rental income estimated on the basis of detailed
evaluation of apartments offered for sale. Financing under the project will be limited to purchase of
residential buildings that are under construction or newly finished and have never been occupied (para
3.20). These purchases are likely to be small in size, probably less than US$2 million each, for an
estimated aggregate of about US$200 million. The rest of the project financing will be for eligible
homeownership loans made by PFIs for individuals' purchase of new housing offered by HMCs. The
PFI will be responsible for ensuring the appropriateness of the housing procurement and efficacy of
selection, contracting and supervision of the development, as well as verifying compliance with local
building and environmental regulations. The documents to be submitted for prior review by the Bank
Group are listed in Annex 5.
5.18     Goods. Computers, peripherals, and training equipment will be procured for TA components
of the project at a total estimated cost of about US$9.3 million. Of these, equipment worth approximately
US$7.2 million would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
Equipment that has common specifications wanted by most of the four municipalities and central
participating ministries will be packaged together and procured by CCG and distributed to user units.



- 39 -
Other equipment that the user requests CCG's assistance in procuring will also be combined with the
former type of packages. CCG and each of the municipalities will retain a qualified importer-tendering
company as the procurement agent. Qualified domestic suppliers would receive a preference in evaluation
of ICB bids, equal to 15% of the c.i.f. prices or the applicable customs duties and import taxes,
whichever is smaller. LCB procedures will be used for contracts not exceeding US$200,000 for an
aggregate up to US$1.0 million. Local and international shopping procedures would be used for
procuring equipment needed in small quantities or highly specialized software or equipment, that costs
no more than US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of US$1.1 million. All equipment procurement
packages costing US$200,000 or higher will be subject to prior review by the Bank Group. The
aggregate value of such packages is estimated to account for about 80% of total value of equipment
procurement. Standard bidding documents prepared by MOF and the Bank will be used in all equipment
procurement through ICB and LCB. Foreign suppliers or contractors will be allowed to bid let under
LCB procedures.
TABLE 5.2    PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Category                      Procurement Method
ICB      LCB    Other    Total
Equipment              7.2      1.0       1.1       9.3
(7.1)    (0.7)    (0.9)      (8.7)
Consultancy and
Training                                15.8       15.8
(15.8)    (15.8)
Housing                       545.0    380.0      925.0
(223.3)   (102.2)    (325.5)
TOTAL                  7.2   546.0    396.8       950.0
(7.1)  (224.0)   (118.9)    (350.0)
Notes:   Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the Bank Group.
Other procurement methods include prudent shopping for equipment
and housing acquisition, and procedures for consultant selection.
Figures may not add up due to rounding.
5.19     Consultancy and Training.  The project requires about 195 person-months of foreign
consultant services and about 600 person-months of local consultant services, at a total estimated cost of
about US$8.1 million. The project will also support a large array of training at a total additional cost
of about US$7.7 million. Some of the training will be incorporated in consultancy contracts. Other
expenditures will be incurred in such direct expenses as those for overseas fellowships and management
observation tours, which will be arranged with consultant assistance. The consultants will be hired,
mostly as teams but several individually, in accordance with the "Guidelines on the Use of Consultants
by the World Bank and its Borrowers". Bidding and contract award for all consultant firm contracts
valued at US$100,000 or more and individual consultant contracts that are valued at US$50,000 or more
will be subject to the Bank Group's prior review. The Bank Group will review the terms of reference
for all other consultancy and training, individually or as part of the annual implementation plan. The
planned procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.2.



- 40 -
F. MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
5.20     Monitoring and Evaluation. Systematic monitoring and evaluation of project progress and
impacts will be critical in view of the nature and purpose of the project. Due to the novelty and
complexity of the project, implementation of investment components and policy reform actions is likely
to give rise to issues that would require frequent coordination and timely response. Further, as the
project is being carried out in four cities as an experiment to establish an effective model for reform in
China as a whole, it is essential to draw lessons for possible adjustment of the model and for
dissemination to other cities.  Therefore, monitoring and evaluation will cover not only the
implementation progress of investment components but also progress in policy reform actions;
performance and development of HMCs, PFIs, social security management institutions, and related legal
instruments; development of relevant overall policy frameworks of the project municipalities and the
Government; and the impacts of the project and policy changes on housing, social security and enterprise
systems inside and outside the project. Monitoring indicators and methods to help measure the progress
and impacts are discussed in detail in Annex 13.
5.21     Most of the information on project implementation will be generated by the HMCs, PFIs and
social security agencies and reported to the PMO on a monthly or quarterly basis. The PMO will
coi,solidate and analyze these data and summarize them in the progress reports to be submitted to the
Bank Group and CCG by February 15 and July 15 each year. In addition, the PMO will compile and
analyze relevant annual city-wide data supplemented by sample surveys of project impacts on participating
enterprises and their workers and on the city-wide housing market. This information will also be reported
in the progress reports. The CCG will provide the Bank Group with semi-annual progress reports
summarizing the TA implementation progress, and policy actions responding to implementation issues
faced by the municipalities. In-depth analysis of the regularly monitored information, supplemented by
necessary sample surveys, will be carried out for a mid-term review to be held during 1997. The CCG
will take the leading role in the mid-term review. Project completion reports will be prepared by each
municipality and provided to the Bank Group within six months of the loan/credit closing date.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that CCG and the municipalities would monitor and
evaluate the project progress and other relevant developments and provide the Bank Group semi-annual
progress reports according to plans and schedules satisfactory to the Bank Group.
5.22     Supervision. Factors discussed in para 5.20 above, coupled with the number of project cities,
indicate a heavy supervision requirement by the Bank Group. The focus of the supervision will be on
monitoring and evaluation of project and policy reform progress as elaborated above, and on helping to
develop appropriate responses to unanticipated implementation or policy issues. The project design assigns
most of the responsibility for detailed review and supervision to PMOs and PFIs, reducing much of the
routine supervision tasks of the Bank Group. It is still estimated that the project will require supervision
input of about 20 staff-weeks in a year normally, but about 30 staff-weeks for the Bank Group fiscal year
1995 for start-up assistance and in fiscal 1997 for mid-term review. The supervision missions, which
normally will visit China twice a year, will be joined by members of CCG (refer to Annex 13).
5.23     Audits.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government and the
participating municipalities would submit annual audit reports by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank Group within six months of the end of each fiscal year on: the Special Accounts; consolidated
project accounts maintained by the PMO and CCG; Statements of Expenditures; and financial statements
of HMCs and PFIs. According to the established practice in China, the audit will be performed by
municipal or provincial audit bureaus under the direction of the State Audit Administration.



- 41 -
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. EcONOMIc BENEFITS
6.1      The project is expected to yield significant long-term benefits which affect a wide range of
China's agenda for economic development, but most of which are difficult to quantify. Even the most
tangible of the benefits, resulting from the creation of housing assets, cannot be estimated reliably due
to the absence of broad markets for housing or labor. Very high prices observed in the emerging, but
still marginal, markets for housing for non-state sector workers give a positive indication, but not a broad
measure, of high economic returns to housing investment. Beyond an immediate physical increase in
assets, however, the project will raise efficiency in the delivery and management of housing and social
welfare services. The efficiency gain is expected from functional specialization, as delivery and
management responsibilities are transferred from the enterprises to specialized institutions -- HMCs,
municipal social security management agencies, and PFIs. The efficiency gain in the delivery mechanism
will be reinforced by TA components for management systems development. Important improvements
that would lead to long-term efficiency include improved housing maintenance and consolidation of
duplicate social welfare benefit responsibilities. Significant efficiency and welfare gains are expected also
on the demand side, thanks to expanded consumer choice in housing and health care.  Further,
commercial levels of housing prices and increased beneficiary contribution requirements for social
security benefits would introduce consumer budget constraints that will lead to a more rational household
budget allocation, and reduced burden on enterprises and the economy as a whole. It will also induce
an increase in household savings which, along with the long-term mortgage lending, will help increase
stability and depth of the financial systems.
6.2      The project will help increase economic efficiency not only in housing and social security
systems, but in broader labor, enterprise and financial systems. The project would establish a new system
of labor benefits, easing constraints to labor and enterprise reform. Converting lumpy in-kind benefits
tied to specific employment into cash wages would allow enterprises increased flexibility to add or reduce
employment, to use the compensation system for labor management, and to allocate investment resources.
It would also ease entry and exit of enterprises, as well as increasing labor mobility. Such increased
flexibility, along with clearer accounting of enterprise performance and liabilities that the new system
would help establish, would ease obstacles to enterprise restructuring, that is critical to further economic
development of China. Further, the benefits will not be limited to the project cities. The success of the
project will prompt other cities of China to adopt the model established and benefit from other types of
efficiency and welfare gains. This will have enormous implications for the national economy, as more
than 70% of the manufacturing and service sector outputs are produced by enterprises that could gain
from the new systems, and expenditures for housing, social security and health alone account for around
15% of urban GDP.
B. EQuffY ASPECTS
6.3      A main aim of the social security systems reform supported by the project is to distribute the
costs of social protection more evenly across the economy. This will prevent the large number of retirees
from being left without minimum support in the case of inevitable and necessary scale down of some
SOEs and COEs. Under the project, pooling will be also extended to non-state sector workers who have
had uncertain or no retirement provisions or health care insurance. Health care cost containment
measures to be developed with the help of the project will increase the efficiency and reach of the formal



- 42 -
health care system so as to include many who are now forced to go without or rely on inferior
alternatives. Further, some aspects of the revision of benefit and contribution formula would enhance
the equity of the social security system. For example, Chengdu has proposed to introduce pooling of
maternity benefits across enterprises; this will not only reduce the burden on the enterprises which
traditionally have a large female work force, but also remove the disincentive for employers to hire
female workers of child-bearing age.
6.4      The housing reform will have more ambiguous equity implications. In Chinese cities, cash
wages are relatively even, at least in the state-controlled sector. The main difference in living standards
consists in different access to housing and other benefits which is determined primarily by the financial
and other status of different employers. The gaps in benefit levels are large and few alternatives are
available other than housing and health care at artificially high standards or substandard services or none.
Thus, arbitrary rationing is inevitable. Under the new housing delivery system, this inequity will begin
to be alleviated significantly over time without requiring the excessive investment that would have been
needed under the current system. The new system will represent a large improvement in equity to those
who have to wait long for housing under the current system. The benefits will be realized in a relatively
short period of time by those working for the participating enterprises, but in the medium to long term
by those working in other enterprises. The wage compensation will also alleviate the inequity present
in the compensation system due to the large and inflexible in-kind component.
6.5      Housing reform, on the other hand, could threaten the welfare of a small number of people
who live in housing to be taken over by HMCs, but who would not be eligible for fully compensating
wage or pension adjustment. In order to operate as commercial entities, HMCs and PFIs will have to
enforce their property rights and evict or foreclose on non-payers. Most of the affected households would
be able to avoid such an extreme situation by adjusting their housing by a relatively modest extent. In
order not to force sudden adjustment, the affected workers will be paid an excess housing allowance for
three years (para 3.11) and the first priority in allocation of vacant units. Despite these measures, there
could be persons who would not be able or willing to make the adjustments. In order to protect such
persons while safeguarding property rights, the municipal governments have reserved older housing
designated for eventual redevelopment to be used as temporary shelter for those who might be evicted
from their homes.
C. ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT
6.6      Enviromnent. The project will primarily finance housing development schemes in the four
cities. Details of the schemes are not available at this time as they will be developed by newly created
HMCs and appraised by local financial intermediaries during the course of project implementation.
However, it is projected that the total number of housing units developed under the project will be in the
order of 150,000 units. Most of the schemes will involve construction of blocks of several apartment
buildings in suburban locations.  Potential environmental issues for such construction include
encroachment on farm land and natural areas, sewerage and solid wastes generated by the residents,
pollution of water bodies, and proximity to polluting industries.
6.7      Current regulations in force in all the five cities, in accordance with national regulations,
require that an environmental impact assessment report be prepared for all construction projects, at
different levels of detail depending upon the project size. A new additional regulation, applicable to
projects financed with multilateral aid, classifies most residential development projects in a category
similar to the Bank Group's environmental category B, requiring at least a summary environmental impact
assessment (EIA) report. The procedures and criteria used in an EIA of residential developments are the
same as those used for other types of capital investment projects, which have been found satisfactory to
the Bank Group, and which address the potential environmental risks listed above, among others. These



- 43 -
regulations are enforced by local Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs), from site selection and design
through completion of the construction. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, as a
condition of borrowing mortgage loans under the project, HMCs would carry out EIA and necessary
mitigating measures, satisfactory to the Bank Group, for housing development schemes. In order to do
so, the relending agreement between the municipality and the PFIs would specify that the latter would
require, as a condition of lending for housing development, certification by EPBs of compliance with EIA
and mitigation requirements.
6.8      Resettlement. Most of the housing development financed under the project is likely to be
located on suburban, vacant lots and involve encroachment of farmland and some farm houses.
Displacement of urban residents is likely to be required only in a minority of housing development
schemes. National regulations governing compensation and resettlement of the population affected by
developments of this nature have been extensively reviewed by the Bank Group and have been found
equitable and generous. Local implementing rules in the project cities have also been reviewed by the
Bank Group and found satisfactory. These regulations mandate compensation of lost farm lands by a
combination of alternative farm land, cash compensation and employment guarantees, compensation of
demolished farm housing by newly built replacements usually for a whole village. In the case of
resettlement of urban residents, the compensation is provided in the form of new housing superior to the
demolished units either on the original site or in comparable locations and moving allowances. In order
to receive building permits, units that implement projects that involve resettlement are required to prepare
and implement resettlement plans, with approval from municipal bureaus of real estate and housing
management and affected neighborhood committees.
6.9      Special attention needs to be paid, in urban resettlement cases, to the fact that new housing
developed and managed by HMCs will carry rents that are much higher than rents elsewhere. In most
cases, redevelopment of old urban housing will involve units already owned by the HMC, because of the
high cost of doing otherwise. In these cases, the residents are also likely to be tenants of the HMC.
They will be allowed the right to move to any vacant apartments owned by the HMC, including newly
built units, and provided compensation for the move. In the rare cases involving residents who are not
HMC tenants, the resettlement would follow the general procedures for urban resettlement, that allow
the affected households to pay rents prevailing elsewhere in the city. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that HMCs would be required to resettle and compensate persons affected by housing
development schemes according to policies and plans satisfactory to the Bank Group. To this effect,
relending agreements between the municipality and PFIs will specify that PFIs will require, as a condition
of mortgage loan for such schemes, the resettlement plan and evidence of relevant municipal authorities'
approval, and, in the case of resettlement involving more than 200 persons, the Bank Group's prior
review and approval.
D. POLICY AND IMPLEMENTATION RISKS
6.10     For urban housing reform, though the Government has set commercialization as the main goal,
consensus has not be reached on an effective and sustainable strategy to achieve the goal. While there
is wide agreement on individual elements of the housing reform model pursued under the project, the
project combines them in far bolder and more comprehensive action programs than the past and existing
approaches tried in China's cities. In view of the political challenges involved, the participating
municipalities have been selected primarily on the basis of the municipal leaders' demonstrated
understanding of the reform model and willingness to undertake the necessary steps. The will and
capacity to reform will have been demonstrated by the completion of critical reform steps by the time of
negotiations, including the transfer of enterprise housing, rent increases, wage adjustment, and
establishment of strengthened foreclosure and eviction rules.



- 44 -
6.11     The financial and political challenges will continue: to keep the rent and wage levels current
by continued adjustment, and to extend the reform beyond the enterprises joining the initial HMCs.
Managing these tasks requires strong public education, political commitment, and continued liberalization
of economic systems -- most of which are difficult to predict or influence. To help manage this process,
the project includes a strong monitoring and evaluation component. The agreed mortgage financing rules
would prevent new housing mortgage loan commitments if HMCs do not meet agreed creditworthiness
criteria. This would happen if HMCs fail to charge or collect rents at levels sufficient to cover costs.
Any large differences in reform progress among cities could call for reallocation of the loan and credit.
During the project, a systematic evaluation of implementation and reform progress, including a
comprehensive mid-term review, will be carried out in order to allow adequate adjustment where
necessary and to draw useful lessons for other cities of China.
6.12     Relatively little risk is foreseen in the social security reform component, since it supports
measures that are consistent with and complementary to the Government's reform programs which are,
at least in outline, coherently formulated and well accepted. Initial reform actions have already been
completed as part of project preparation.
6.13     Another set of challenges, of a technical nature, are present in both the social security and
housing reform components as they involve establishing and managing a wide range of institutions and
practices, many of which are novel in today's China. To minimize the difficulties, a large amount of
technical assistance has been provided during project preparation to establish necessary institutional, legal
and technical foundations.  Substantial additional technical assistance will be provided during
implementation for further development of policies, institutions, and techniques. However, the difficulties
are likely to be overcome only gradually. Technical assistance during the early years of the project will
focus on installing elements essential to operations of the new systems along with procedures for
evaluating and refining them.



- 45 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1     Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would:
(a) maintain the Central Coordinating Group (CCG) with functions and staffing satisfactory to the
Bank Group (para 5.5);
(b) provide, through CCG, assistance to project municipalities and PFIs for managing TA
activities (para 5.6);
(c) onlend the loan and credit proceeds, except those used for TA for its own agencies, to Beijing,
Chengdu, Ningbo and Yantai municipalities on terms satisfactory to the Bank Group (para
5.7);
(d) establish and maintain Special Accounts in a manner satisfactory to the Bank Group (para
5.12);
(e)  submit audit reports of the Special Accounts and the Statements of Expenditures by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank Group within six months after the end of each
financial year (para 5.23).
7.2      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that each of the Beijing, Chengdu, Ningbo, and
Yantai municipalities would:
(a) carry out its housing systems reform program and associated TA programs according to a
time-bound action plan satisfactory to the Bank Group (para 3.8);
(b) carry out social security systems reform program, with associated TA programs, according to
a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank Group (para 3.13);
(c) cause the PFIs, as part of the conditions of relending to the latter, to make housing mortgage
loans on terms and conditions and according to appraisal criteria satisfactory to the Bank
Group (para 3.21), including that borrowing HMCs shall submit to the Bank Group financial
projections according a format and a schedule satisfactory to the Bank Group, and maintain
debt service ratios above 1.5 (para 4.21);
(d) maintain the Project Leading Group and the Project Management Office with functions and
staff satisfactory to the Bank Group (para 5.5);
(e)  re-lend the loan/credit proceeds to the participating financial institutions (PFIs), on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group, to partly finance eligible housing mortgage loans
and to finance TA programs (paras 5.8 and 5.9);
(f)  cause HMCs to carry out environmental impact assessment and necessary mitigating measures,
satisfactory to the Bank Group, for housing development schemes (para 6.7);
(g) cause HMCs to resettle and compensate persons affected by housing development schemes
according to policies and plans satisfactory to the Bank Group (para 6.9);



- 46 -
(h) carry out monitoring and evaluation of the project and relevant developments according to a
plan and schedule satisfactory to the Bank Group; and furnish the Bank Group with semi-
annual progress reports whose formats and contents shall be satisfactory to the Bank Group
(para 5.21);
(i)  submit audit reports of financial statements of HMCs and PFIs, by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank Group within six months after the end of each financial year (para
5.23).
7.3      An understanding was reached during negotiations and entered into the minutes that relending
and mortgage lending terms would be reviewed at least annually and as interest rate structure changes,
so as to evaluate whether the terms adequately reflect developments in the financial sector and adequately
provide for market-based housing systems development and for market resource mobilization by PFIs,
and to modify the terms accordingly, subject to agreement by the parties concerned (paras 3.16 and 5.10).
7.4      Agreements were reached during negotiations that as a condition of disbursement for mortgage
loans under each municipality's part of the project, the municipality concerned would enter into re-lending
agreements with two PFIs, satisfactory to the Bank Group, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank Group that include the PFIs' adoption of financial and operating policies (paras 4.27 and 5.8), terms
and conditions and appraisal criteria and procedures of the housing mortgage loans, satisfactory to the
Bank Group (para 3.21).
7.5      Agreement was reached during negotiations that a condition of effectiveness will be staffing of
CCG in satisfactory to the Bank Group (para 5.5).
7.6      With the above assurances and agreements, the proposed project would be suitable for a Loan
of US$275.0 million equivalent, at the standard variable interest rate and a maturity of 20 years including
five years grace, and a Development Credit of SDR 53.1 million (US$75.0 million equivalent) on
standard terms with 35 years maturity including 10 years grace, to the People's Republic of China.



- 47 -                                ANNEX 1
PROJECT CITIES AND THEIR REFORM PROGRAMS
1.       The four cities selected to participate in the project reflect the diversity of the urban
development spectrum in China. They are all quite different in terms of size, regional location, and
economic or political function. They are similar only in a shared common commitment to accelerate the
enterprise reform and the associated restructuring of the welfare system.
BEUIING
2.       Beijing Municipality, center of the Tianjin-Beijing-Tangshan economic region, is a giant in any
yardstick. As the capital of the People's Republic, it has both a highly visible role to play and a unique
set of handicaps to overcome. It has a total population over 10 million; the city proper itself contains
6.4 million residents and over 4.4 million workers. Close to half of these work directly for the central
government, its affiliated institutions, and other institutions and enterprises controlled directly by the
central government. As a result, the municipal government's influence and tax base are considerably
constrained, though large compared with other municipal governments in China or elsewhere.
3.       Enterprise Reform: In Beijing, implementation regulations required to accelerate enterprise
management reform have been issued. These stipulate, inter alia, that (a) direct government bureau
management over economic enterprises must cease and be replaced by hands-off regulation; (b) loss-
making enterprises will have to transform themselves into profitable ventures, or face bankruptcy
proceedings and; (c) the right to dismiss workers is now lodged with enterprise management, subject to
regulations on employment fair practices; unemployed workers will be covered by relevant insurance
policies and be entitled to job retraining and access to re-employment service agencies' assistance.
4.       Housing Reform: There are more than 2 million residential units in Beijing, covering an area
of 100 million square meters of constructed space. This housing stock is growing at 5 percent per year.
Evidence that central authorities play a very significant role in Beijing's economy is reflected in the fact
that 60% of that urban housing stock is controlled by national-level Ministries and institutions. Beijing's
pilot program under this project, ultimately covering 7.2 million m2 of existing enterprise housing space,
is very considerable if measured against the citywide local enterprise housing stock of 30 million square
meters. The team assembled by Beijing to work on the Project has already utilized the experienced
gained to help influence the content of the national housing policy drafted in 1993. This proves the value
of having a Project "presence" in the capital itself. In housing reform citywide, Beijing is committed to
a program of rent reforms that will allow the rents on existing housing inside and outside the project to
converge over the next 6 years. Wage adjustments for workers outside the Project will also gradually
be adjusted upward. Homeownership promotion programs will avoid the use of "deep discount" sales
techniques.
5.       Social Security Reform: The municipality plans to unify, by 1998, the currently separate
pension pools for permanent, contract, and temporary workers in SOEs, urban collectives and other
ownership-type enterprises. All workers have started to contribute to their old-age pension funds.
Transfer of management functions from enterprises to the municipal social insurance agency (SIA) has



- 48 -                               ANNEX 1
begun and would be completed by 1997. A new benefit formula consistent with MOL guidelines would
be introduced in 1994. By end 1994, all workers (with the exception of private entrepreneurs) in urban
enterprises will have unemployment insurance coverage. All types of non-voluntary terminations are,
technically, eligible for claims. The municipal employment and training division is committed to
improving the effectiveness of placement and retraining services over the next few years. Beijing has
introduced, as an experiment, pooling of major medical expenditures of work units in a few districts.
It is intended to extend this type of pooling to cover much of the municipality by 1996. An effort is
underway to set up a health information network with the help of the MOPH. Alternative systems of
paying providers are under consideration.
CHENGDU
6.       Chengdu, with an urban population of 2.5 million and a labor force of 1.2 million, is the
capital of Sichuan Province. That inland province, with over 100 million residents, would -- if
independent -- be one of the largest countries in the world. Chengdu is situated on the agriculturally
prosperous Chengdu Plain, linked to the coast by an ever-improving transportation network, well
endowed with a critical mass of universities and science/technology institutes, and proactive business,
technical and administrative organizations. As a consequence, Chengdu is one of a handful of inland
urban centers tapped by domestic and foreign direct investors for rapid growth in the 1990s.
7.       Enterprise Reform: The Systems Reform Commission has selected Chengdu to be one of the
municipalities to participate in a new Comprehensive Pilot Reform Program (CPRP). To be selected,
a municipality must meet the following criteria:
(a) have a local government strongly committed to overall reform;
(b) demonstrate considerable economic development potential; and
(c) possess a set of well-articulated comprehensive reform proposals.
8.       Chengdu municipality is committed to transforming its SOEs into truly independent economic
entities operating in a competitive market environment; and only indirectly regulated by government
agencies. To achieve these objectives, the local government will use a variety of tools. Among them
are: (a) corporatization of SOEs; (b) creation of SOE-foreign joint ventures; (c) encouraging SOEs to
merge or otherwise join economic groups or holding companies; (d) leasing, selling or otherwise
restructuring smaller SOEs; (e) allowing insolvent SOEs to go bankrupt; and (f) forcing all new
enterprises to incorporate or otherwise clearly define ownership and management prerogatives and
responsibilities.
9.       Housing Reform: Among large cities, Chengdu has few if any peers in housing reform. As
early as 1984, the city introduced the concept of "commercial" housing sales to individuals and employee
contributions to new housing construction. Some households with low priority for housing allocation,
young couples for example, were offered apartments for a deposit of Y10,000 and a monthly rent of
Y1/m2, which allowed for recovery of housing construction costs. In 1988, Chengdu explicitly linked
enterprise and housing reform by allowing 142 enterprises to raise rents (averaging only 8 fen/m2
citywide) to Y1.3-1.4/m2, and adjust wages by 25 % of the applicable standard wage. In 1990, Chengdu
decided on a two-stage reform plan: first, all enterprises owning housing were encouraged to set



- 49 -                               ANNEX 1
subsidiaries to manage the housing stock; second, those subsidiaries were encouraged to gradually transfer
their stock to citywide companies, and do so by the year 2000. Chengdu also stood out among cities in
firmly opposing "deep discount" sales of houses to individuals. Today 46 percent of existing housing
(which totals approximately 39 million m2 and is expanding at 5% per annum) is rented out at Y1.3/m2
or higher. New housing rents are higher and range from Y2/m2 to market clearing levels. These home-
grown housing reform initiatives made Chengdu receptive to the development of even more innovative
models.
10.     Social Security Reforn: Citywide pooling of old-age pension funds and a new benefit
formula for pensions were put into effect in 1993. The municipality is now working towards the
objective of centralizing the administration and delivery of benefits by 1996. Computerization of
management tasks is well underway. For unemployment insurance, much progress has been made in
expanding the coverage and extending eligibility criteria for claims. Although effort has been make to
develop a labor exchange, there is need and intention to strengthen the municipality's institutional capacity
for implementing active labor market policies. For health care system reform, a fee-for-service system
for paying providers, backed by strong demand-side controls, has been developed. The municipality aims
to achieve comprehensive pooling for all illnesses by 1996. Computerization of the administrative system
is a major element of the health care reform program.
NINGBO
11.     Ningbo is located on the south central coast of China, in Zhejiang Province. The municipality
has a population of 600,000 of whom 390,000 live in the three central districts, and others in the port
areas and surrounding rural areas. The project will cover the central urban districts. The city has a
housing stock of 6.5 million square meters, growing at 4-5 percent per annum. Ningbo has historically
been a major port on China's eastern coast, and was one of the so-called "treaty ports" open to
intemational commerce and investment. After the end of the Civil War in 1949, however, Ningbo
suffered a relative decline for lack of investment due to various factors. In 1984, in recognition of its
pioneering role in the past economic development of China, Ningbo was one of a small number of cities
to be declared "open" to foreign trade and investment. In the decade that followed, significant
investments by domestic and overseas investors have led to rapid economic growth. The World Bank
Group has been actively assisting efforts to upgrade the municipality's vital infrastructure, most notably
in the ports and highway sectors to improve the city's ties with the hinterland and the world, and more
recently supporting the urban water supply and sanitation improvement.
12.     Enterprise Reform: Like Chengdu, Ningbo has been designated as one of the municipalities
that will participate in the CPRP program. Nearly 1000 enterprises have already been transformed into
joint stock companies, limited liability companies, or joint stock cooperatives. All new enterprises must,
in principle, be incorporated as joint stock companies, with a well-defined separation of ownership and
management rights and obligations. Efforts have been made to create enterprise holding companies or
related group organizations; to date 45 conglomerates have been formed. Loss-making enterprises are
being reorganized either through merger with other enterprises or through auction to new owners. over
time, debt-burdened enterprises will be allowed to slip into bankruptcy. Ningbo has also adopted a labor
market system that (a) allows enterprise managers the right to hire and fire workers, subject only to
minimum employee protection measures; (b) provides govermment assistance and employers and; (c)
provides the unemployed with unemployment compensation, subsidized medical care, and re-employment
assistance.



-50-                                   ANNEX 1
13.      Housing Reform: Ningbo's municipal leaders have also been among the first to understand
the need for radically restructured housing and social security delivery system as an essential requirement
for economic development and modernization, probably due to the city's strong emphasis on fast
modernization and on attracting foreign investment. Forcing employers to provide workers with housing
creates a poor business climate when Ningbo has to compete for investment with other Chinese or foreign
cities; and the rigidities of labor system imposed by the current wage and welfare system inhibits
enterprise growth and management efficiency. Municipal and business leaders see the project as a means
by which to free the city of these rigidities.
14.      The rent reform program in Ningbo is indicative of a commitment to change. While wage
adjustment strategies for workers outside the project remain, as elsewhere, hostage to national guidelines
yet to come, Ningbo has decided to push forward with reforms that allow for the convergence of rents
for existing housing inside and outside the Project; and will require all newly-built housing, whether in-or
outside the Project, to charge cost-recovery rents. Like Chengdu, Ningbo authorities understand that
institutional reforms are necessary to allow autonomous providers to dominate the rental housing market.
Housing management companies or subsidiaries are being set up independent of the Project so that the
whole city can soon be covered.
15.      Social Security Reform: Since 1992, the municipality has put old-age pension reform first
on its agenda for social security reform. In 1993, all urban workers began to make personal contributions
to the pension fund. A new benefit formula will be implemented in 1994. Comprehensive pooling of
pension funds will be achieved by 1996, and by 1997, all management tasks will be centralized in the
municipal SIA. Although the municipality will extend coverage of the unemployment insurance scheme
to all urban workers by 1994, the focus of reform is on expansion of labor market services to help
redeploy workers, who will become redundant as a result of enterprise restructuring that the municipality
expects to be carried out in the next few years, to new employment job that are expected to grow fast.
For health care reform, Ningbo has no definite plans aside from the introduction of some demand-side
cost containment measures. The TA program is therefore essential for helping the concerned authorities
make decisions on reform actions. There is interest in implementing, on an experimental basis, pooling
(within counties) for major illnesses in 1995.
YANTAI
16.      Yantai is a small coastal city in Shandong Province, with only 360,000 inhabitants and half
as many jobs. Its housing stock, with 3.8 million m2, though expanding at 4.5 percent per year, could
easily fit into only one district of one of China's large cities. Shandong Province as a whole, and
particularly its port cities, has been attracting a strong flow of foreign investment and developing a strong
industrial sector, augmenting its traditionally robust agricultural and fishery bases.
17.      Enterprise Reform: Though hardly a known quantity a decade ago as far as international
observers were concerned, Yantai is not without its strengths. Like the Chengdu plain, Yantai is situated
in rich agricultural and aquacultural production center and has a well-trained and disciplined workforce.
For these reasons, Yantai is already much sought after by foreign (particularly North Asian) investors.
Yantai, along with Chengdu and Ningbo, has been selected to be one of the CPRP centers, chosen by
Government to take the lead in enterprise reform.



- 51-                                ANNEX 1
18.     Housing Reform: In 1986, Yantai volunteered and was selected by the State Council as a pilot
city to experiment with housing reform. The reform experiment begun in late 1987 increased average
monthly rents from 16.7 fen/m2 of rented area to Y1.28/m2. All SOE and government workers were
given wage increases, partly with housing vouchers, equivalent to 23.5 % of the applicable standard wage,
and financed out of enterprise housing funds. Although this represented the first dramatic break with the
prevailing system of housing delivery, the new rent was still a fraction of levels needed to recover
investment costs, which were Y450/m2 in total then. This modest reform had some noteworthy effects.
Nor was it sufficient to make homeownership attractive. Therefore, although a special local banks,
Yantai Housing Savings Bank (YHSB), was created to help finance home mortgage loans at low interest
rates, only 2,500 housing units have been sold to date under the program. The low interest rates also
hampered resource mobilization.
19.     Overall, this first reform program did not achieve the intended reform goals but provided
various important lessons. For example, the rents increase reduced the average size of new housing
wanted by enterprises and their workers, showing the effect of consumer budget constraints, though
modest. The experiment also showed the limitations of a gradual strategy, though much more radical
compared with programs adopted elsewhere in China. Through the experiment, local officials gained
valuable insights and experiences; the YHSB, though limited in business scope, exhibits a strong
competitive market behaviour and understanding of housing market, and established several innovative
and effective mortgage lending practices. Along with these lessons and expertise gained through the
experiment, Yantai's small size gives it a definite advantage for housing reform. It can introduce
wholesale reform on an accelerated schedule without eliciting the fears of social instability and unrest
always present among leaders of major metropolitan areas. Thus, Yantai has decided the project will
eventually cover the whole city, as far as rental housing is concerned. This commitment to full-scale
change means the process of wage restructuring will also cover the whole city in short order. Therefore,
there will be no need to create discount price incentives in efforts to facilitate homeownership. Yantai
will also be able to build on past efforts to introduce homeownership mortgage financing on a large scale.
In order to ensure sustainable market resource mobilization for housing finance, the YHSB will have to
be freed of its business restrictions -- market area, product range, banking correspondence, etc. -- that
constrain its ability to compete effectively with other financial institutions.
20.      Social Security Reform: The municipality will be able to achieve comprehensive pooling of
old-age pension funds by 1994. Workers began contributing to their pension fund in 1992 and a new
benefit formula endorsed by the MOL, will be put into effect, in 1994. Computerization of many
management tasks has begun and the SIA plans to takeover most management tasks (with the exception
of retiree services) by 1996.  All workers with the exception of temporary workers and private
entrepreneurs will have unemployment insurance coverage by 1995; coverage of all urban workers will
be achieved by 2000. In respect of active labor market policies, the city's Employment and Training
Division is making a major effort to improve labor market services for redundant workers. Given its
pioneering role in China's push towards integrated reforms, Yantai is working on an implementation plan
for health insurance reform. This involves setting up of individual accounts for medical expenditure,
which are then financed by an enterprise payroll tax as well as personal contributions. In addition, there
will be a pooled fund for major illnesses.



- 52 -                                  ANNEX 2
HOUSING RENTS AND PRICES, AND WAGE REFORM
BACKGROUND
1.       In most cities in China, virtually all apartments are owned by the municipal government or
enterprises and currently available at rents that are uniformly very low, covering less than the costs of
maintenance and management. The Government's housing reform program established in 1987 and
modified in 1991 requires all cities to raise rents to "commercial levels." This rent reform program is
defined in terms of 8 "factors" of rent.  By 1995, rents are to be raised to cover "3 factors" -
management, maintenance, and depreciation; with further increases to cover "5 factors" - additionally
covering return on investment and property taxes by the year 2000. At a later date, rents will be adjusted
to cover "8 factors", including land use fees, insurance premia, and profits. At present, only a few cities,
such as Yantai, have rent levels in place that even cover maintenance, management, and some portion
of depreciation. It is also true in some housing stock in Chengdu, restricted to housing stock of specific
groups of enterprises undergoing experiments.
2.       While there is considerable confusion in determining actual rents using the 8 factors, the factors
are clearly intended to indicate benchmark for different rent levels in terms of costs to be recovered:
current costs (2 factors), full cost (5 factors), and commercial levels (8 factors). The rent factor system
is, at least conceptually, well understood as such in cities in China. Minimum rents to be charged by
HMCs take, as a starting point, these standard rent calculation system factors, and will begin with 5 or
8 factors, depending on the city, as described below.
3.       There is a large gap between the current rents and 5- or 8-factor rents. The latter represents
in general about 20 times the current rents; and the gap for an apartment amounts to up to a third of
median wages of two-wage earner households. As the latter represents in-kind wage good provided by
employers, this may be converted into cash wages within the resources of the enterprises that have been
providing housing. The cashing-in of housing benefit in the form of wage adjustments needs to take heed
of the current structure of wage scale and housing allocation, as described in the later part of this Annex.
RENT REFORM
4.       Each participating city has agreed to a rent reform program that covers rental units within and
outside the project (Table 1). Calculation of minimum rent for an apartment unit is determined on the
basis of three elements: capital cost of a reference unit; rent factors; and individual characteristics that
differentiate the housing unit in question from the reference unit. The method agreed to calculate the
minimum rents are set out below:
5.       Each year, actual investment costs for acquiring or constructing a unit quantity (m2) of new
rental housing will be determined for a "reference" housing unit with given locational, structural, and
neighborhood attributes. The investment costs will be expressed in two components: land and structure.
They are distinguished mainly in terms of different schedules of depreciation and maintenance needs.
The cost of land will include value of land lease, cost of compensation and resettlement of original
residents, and other related costs that have to be depreciated completely over the life of land lease. These
reference valueh are relatively easy to determine because of the current relatively uniform design and



- 53 -                                  ANNEX 2
standards of housing. However, as diversity increases with increased consumer choice, investment costs
per unit space of housing is also expected to diverge. Currently, significant differences relate mainly to
the age of housing, which determines not only structural deterioration but also standard facilities provided
and structural material used. This difference in capital value is determined by property valuation at the
time of transfer of housing from enterprises to HMCs. Completed valuation for housing stock transferred
by the end of February 1994 indicates the value per m2 of housing stock to be about 75% of new housing
on average. These capital values will be automatically adjusted each year along with the new costs of
land lease and construction, adjusted only for structural depreciation of 3 % or less.
6.       To this capital value are applied the following rent factors:
(a)  Maintenance and Management fees will be set to reflect actual expenses. However, for
making initial projections, the traditional benchmark are used: namely, maintenance estimated
at 1.0% of construction cost and management at 0.40% of construction costs (except in Beijing
where 0.7% and 0.1% are applied, respectively.)
(b)  Depreciation charges will be set at a straight-line depreciation of land lease and structure: land
lease depreciation at a percentage equivalent to the reciprocal of the terms of the land leases,
65 years in the project cities, except 50 years in Beijing, plus 3% of structural value per
annum.
(c)  The rate of return on total investment costs will be established as 5 % per annum, as net real
return, for opportunity cost of capital.
(d)  Property taxes will be computed according to the applicable formula approved by the State
Council: currently, taxes will equal 12% of the preceding four factors. However, the localities
have the option to exempt HMCs from collecting and paying property taxes until such taxes
are made applicable to all other residential housing in that city.
(e)  Land fees, at rates set through local regulations, are compulsory only in cases where the
residential land involved is "allocated" land assigned to the users, who then have limited rights
over its use and disposal. Since under the project, all land will acquired from the state in the
forrn of paid leaseholds, no additional land use fees need to be automatically collected.
(f)  Insurance fees will reflect locally-determined premia set by the current sole provider,
equivalent to 0.2% of the value of structure.
(g)  Profit will be calculated and included in the rent. That minimum is currently set at 4 % of the
sum total of maintenance, management, depreciation, and return on investment.
7.       In evaluating the appropriateness of rent calculation, the critical value to be monitored will be
the total rent level per square meter rather than individual factors of rent. The adequacy of that
aggregate level will have to be judged by the degree to which it allows the HMCs to maintain and operate
existing stocks, while satisfying shareholder demands for dividends and the fulfillment of investment
plans. The above rent calculation yields the annual rent at about 10% of the investment value; and the
financial projections for HMCs show that the rent would be sufficient for HMCs to operate on a
sustainable basis.



- 54 -                               ANNEX 2
8.       For existing housing units, "5-factor" rents will be charged in Chengdu and Yantai for limited
time periods (See Table 1). The 5-factor rent differs from the 8-factor rent only marginally, by about
5 %, not including the insurance and profit factors. Finally, "three factor" rents cover only maintenance,
management, and depreciation; these rents are only applicable to the initial rents set for housing outside
the scope of the project. By the year 2000, all cities will raise rent levels for all rent-controlled housing
to "five factor" levels.
TABLE 1    RENT REFORM TIMETABLE
Beijing      Chengdu      Ningbo        Yantai
Citywide Reform
3 factors             1994          1994         1994          1994
5 factors             2000          1994         2000         2000
For Housing Managed by HMCs Under the Project
Existing Housing
5 factors              -            1994          -            1994
8 factors             1994         2000          1994          1995
New Housing
8 factors             1994          1994         1994          1994
Amount of Existing Housing Brought under the Proiect (1000 in2)
by mid-1994            550          650           480          550
by end 1997           5000          2500         1800          1200
by end 2000           7000          3500         3000          2500
Minimum Number of HMCs to be Established
by end 1993             1             1            2             1
by end 1997            7             4             3             2
by end 2000            10             6            4             4
HOUSING SALES PROGRAM
9.       Homeownership should be a voluntary decision for households within and outside the scope
of the project. For most urban enterprise workers, homeownership is not an attractive option, given the
present set of price/income ratios, and given the relative prices prevailing in the residential sector (as
between renting a unit provided by the enterprise and owning a unit). Promoting homeownership under
these circumstances therefore have involved heavy subsidies or coercion or both, without serving a clear
public interest. However, homeownership can become popular options once several conditions are
established: a near parity between housing purchase prices and capitalized rental rates; availability of
diverse housing choices and of mortgage financing; wages that are multiples of mortgage payments; and
capital gains opportunities, usually a major incentive for homeownership. The current Government



- 55 -                                 ANNEX 2
program to offer housing without the right to capital gains, as a justification for low prices, is therefore
likely to result in either lack of buyers or wide-spread circumvention of the restriction. Under the
project, the cost of homeownership mortgages will be close to rental costs and wages will be raised to
levels that are about three times the likely borrowing (assuming about 40% downpayment). Therefore,
with visible rise in housing prices and reduction of deeply discounted housing rental or sales within the
same city, homeownership could gain popularity rapidly.
10.     In view of these opportunities and pitfalls, the following ground rules for housing sales will
be observed, under the project:
(a)  any housing unit sold under the project will be priced at no less than full cost recovery,
including land lease charges, plus a minimum margin for profit, defined as in the rent formula
discussed above;
(b)  the definition of full cost recovery will exclude any locally or nationally mandated taxes and
fees not currently collected from investors (mainly, state-owned enterprises) who purchase the
bulk of new housing; fees will only be collected when all or most other investors in residential
property are required to pay them; in the case of national taxes, exemptions granted under the
project will be reviewed after the first two years and may not necessarily be extended; and
(c)  any housing sales program developed outside the scope of the project will follow the guidelines
decreed by the State Council in May 1991 and December 1993, restricting the use of price
discounts.
WAGE REFORM
11.     In each city, wage rationalization systems have been developed, adjusting the wages of each
category of covered workers according to transparent criteria once wages are rationalized, no additional
housing commitments of an in-kind nature need be made. In principle, each active or retired worker will
be given a wage or pension supplement equivalent to one half of the applicable average rent increase for
a "typical" housing occupied by the category of workers that the person belong to, or a person of the
similar skills, rank, and seniority. To these factors of differentiation may be added a small factor related
to family characteristics. For a category where a large number of workers belong, it can be calculated
simply as: (Sum of new rents for housing occupied by the workers in a category) less (sum of old rents
on the same housing) divided by (the number of workers in the category). This adjustments would result
in widening the range of cash wages, compared with the wage structure within Chinese state-controlled
enterprises that is unusually compressed compared with international practices.
12.      There are acceptable variations on the wage rationalization scheme, devised to make the
adjustment simpler, and easier to be understood and accepted by the workers. One alternative is to adjust
all wages in an enterprise by a certain percentage of income defined comprehensively to include basic
wages, bonuses, cash subsidies, and other such items. A second alternative would provide for a small
per capita amount to all workers; and then allowing for all additional adjustments to be made according
to rank, seniority, and merit. Yet a third alternative would calculate wage adjustments in a manner that
would minimize the variation of adjustments around the expected mean. While this incorporates fewer
aspects of the thorough-going wage rationalization than other options cited, it nevertheless avoids the key
pitfall of apparent or real arbitrariness.



- 56 -                                 ANNEX 2
13.      For wage rationalization, which will determine the basis upon which future wage increases will
be calculated, it would not be appropriate to compensate an individual worker exactly according to the
housing space actually occupied by that particular worker. There are two main reasons. The first reason
is that the current distribution of housing is a result of the old allocation system and contains substantial
degrees of arbitrariness. While the allocation relates to some measure of merit-based compensation
broadly, specific housing allocation depends upon when it was allocated, for example. The resulting
inequity need not be made permanent. The second, more fundamental reason is that compensating for
whatever housing unit a person happens to live in would defeat the purpose of introducing rational
consumer choice and consumer budget constraints, and hence perpetuate or worsen the current problem
of increasing consumer demand on enterprise resources.
14.      By providing wage supplements on the basis of average housing occupancy rather than
individual occupancy would result in gaps between individual increases in rent burden and wage
supplements. In the case where a particular category of workers is relatively underpaid given rank and
seniority, the adjustments may exceed both actual rents paid at project inception and the enterprise
average adjustment. However, there will be cases where individuals will have to draw on additional own
resources to fully fund rent increases. This would happen if a household happens to be living in a unit
that is disproportionately large. In those cases, cities have the option to allow temporary excess
allowances to bridge the gap that would phase out in less than three years: for example, starting from
about 80% of the "gap" between increased rents and adjustment pay in the first year; 50% in the second
year; and 30% in the third year. Thereafter, any household unhappy with the resulting financial
outcomes would have only one option: to move to a smaller unit. Conversely, however, any worker or
household whose wage adjustment income exceeds the increase in rents at the initiation of the project will
be allowed to spend the residual income as they see fit.
15.      Wage Adjustments for Family Members of Participating Workers.  Problems of
unaffordable rent increases will arise most often for households one of whose member works for the
participating enterprise and live in the housing provided by that employer, while family members work
for an enterprise which does not participate in a HMC system ("excluded enterprise"). The latter
enterprise, in effect, had been a free rider and would likely resist paying wage supplement to its employee
to enable the family to make up for the rent increases. It is also possible that present residents have no
affiliation with the enterprise that own the housing unit, as sometimes happen due to informal "rights"
for the original resident to assign their housing unit to relatives. In cities where the project will rapidly
expand to cover most of the cities' housing stock, this problem will accordingly be quickly eased. In
Beijing and Chengdu, where the project is planned to cover only a small part of the city, this problem
adds further constraints for the project.
16.      As the first option, the municipalities are recommending the "excluded" enterprises to pay
wage supplements for employees living in the housing units transferred to a HMC.  However,
enforcement has proven difficult for the apparent lack of incentives for the excluded enterprises to do so,
and sometimes their inability. In the face of this reality, a variety of arrangements are accepted, most
commonly to have the two (or three) enterprises negotiate to share the gap during a limited time period.
In some cases, participating enterprise are having to pay the wage supplements matching the full
apartment rent increases. These cases are analogous to the case discussed in para 15 above, and the
participating worker is considered to have a disproportionately large housing unit and give the transitional
housing allowance. While provision of the wage adjustments for persons other than their own employees
are unjustified financial burden to the participating enterprise, it is affordable as it does impose no more
financial burden than the past when the enterprise provided the housing without compensation from
employers of family members living in the housing. Further, as all cities have agreed to allow rents



- 57 -                               ANNEX 2
inside and outside the project to converge; any sharing of the burden of compensating a worker (between
two enterprises) will be transitional.
17.     Participating Workers who Live in or Relocate to Housing Outside the Project. There will
be households who leave the rental housing managed by an HMC. They may opt to buy a unit inside
or outside the project, or they may seek private (and, therefore, market priced) rental housing options.
Their wage adjustment would not be jeopardized in these cases. If, however, a worker who has received
a wage adjustment moves into the stock of rent-controlled public housing, measures may be taken to raise
rents on the apartments involved to levels equivalent to those within the project. Similarly, there are
workers who will not experience a dramatic increase in rents at the timne of project implementation
because they live in housing units (private, enterprise, or institutional in ownership) not covered by the
project scope. These workers will be eventually provided wage supplements corresponding to those
received by their counterparts who benefit from HMC-managed housing, particularly for those who have
solved their housing problems on their own buying or renting private housing. Funds for wage
adjustment for these workers would become available as transitional excess housing allowances are
withdrawn. Any delay in providing workers outside the project with a wage adjustment comparable to
other workers would not exceed the project time span.
18.     Personal Income Taxation. Individuals will not be liable to tax payments on the wage
adjustment that an individual receives as a direct result of the project. It will be deductible for tax
purposes. According to the tax code introduced on January 1, 1994, personal income taxes apply only
to income in excess of Yuan 800 per month, after allowable deductions.



- 58 -                               ANNEX 3
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS FOR
HOUSING MANAGEMENT COMPANIES
AND HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT
A. BACKGROUND AND OVERVEEW
1.      At present, four types of organizations are involved in housing delivery in Chinese cities: (i)
real estate development companies (REDCs), that develop and sell housing in a competitive basis; (ii)
enterprises (and other types of work units) that buy, and also often manage, most of the housing and rent
it, or sell a small number of units, to their own employees; (iii) real estate credit departments of local
banks that collects housing funds from enterprises and their workers and finance part of construction
expenditures; and (iv) housing maintenance companies that manage housing owned by the municipal
government and some owned by enterprises on commission. The first of these, REDCs, function most
like their counterparts in market economies, aggressively competing for profit. While new housing used
to be "sold" on the basis of administrative allocation, increasingly they have to market their products
aggressively. While the input factors used to be allocated by the government, now they are mostly made
available through competitive bidding processes, including not only construction materials but also land,
labor, and financing. The third category of function, housing maintenance services, is also increasingly
commercialized although not to the same extent.
2.       The second category of functions, delivering housing to the consumers, is commercialized only
in marginal, extremely small segments catering to consumers who do not have access to housing through
their employers - those working for themselves, for foreign joint-venture firms, or employers otherwise
unable to provide housing. The system of employer-provided housing, with its lack of market prices or
incentives, governs the vast majority of housing consumption and supply behavior. In most cities, with
some exceptions including Shanghai, municipal governments are no longer directly involved in housing
supply and finance. They, specifically the municipal real estate administration bureaus (REBs) still are
responsible for financing and allocation of housing for their own employees, management of a small
number of old housing units not transferred to enterprises, and control of most housing management
companies. Nevertheless, municipal governments retain an extraordinarily strong influence in housing
supply.  Their intervention includes not only regulations that are commonly exercised by public
authorities elsewhere, but also directives on mobilization and management of housing funds, annual
housing delivery plans that identify housing supply priorities and credit allocation that guide actions by
all four types of organizations identified above. Standards of housing units as well as average housing
consumption targets for the city as a whole are also determined by official norms. In a sense, these
various actions of the government can be understood as a substitute for the market signals which would
be generated from consumer choice and consumer budget constraints that are lacking under the current
system.
3.       The joint-stock housing management companies (HMCs), being established under the project,
will take over housing stock owned and operated by enterprises for their employees, and manage it on
a commercial basis. They would also provide additional housing to workers of these enterprises as well
as others for rental or sale. In doing so, HMCs will carry out market intermediation functions between
suppliers and consumers in response to market signals, that are now carried out by enterprises and
housing organizations in response to government plans and norms. HMCs therefore have to develop
management systems to take over functions performed by others now but also new market-oriented



- 59 -                               ANNEX 3
functions and skills that are not familiar in the curreit system. Creation of commercial housing market,
which started recently with the "commodity housing" sector catering to a small minority that can afford
extremely high prices, will proceed in a large scale of growth and multiplication of HMCs. Such
development will bring about changes in the responsibilities of the government, from those of directing
housing production and delivery to those of providing a framework to enable fair transactions among
various actors.
4.       The project will support technical assistance (TA), comprising consultant services, training and
equipment procurement, in order to help the process of market-based housing delivery system. The
major part of the TA program will be to help HMCs develop management systems necessary in meeting
the large challenges. A small TA program is also included to help municipal government authorities to
develop skills and systems that are called for to ensure proper functioning and development of commercial
housing delivery and finance systems. These are outlined in turn below. These TA programs will benefit
not only the HMCs currently in place but also new ones that are expected to be created later during the
project. Further, some elements of the TA for HMCs will be of use to municipal managers and staff who
need to develop their capacity to guide and regulate different housing service providers in the rapidly
changing economic and financial systems. Likewise, some of the TA carried out primarily for the benefit
of municipal authorities will be of benefit to HMC managers.
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO HOUSING MANAGEMENT COMPANIES
5.      HMCs face a large technical and management challenge. Each HMC is expected to take over,
from the outset, 5,000 - 12,000 apartment units from its shareholding enterprises, and acquire or develop
up to half as many in the course of the project. To do so, HMCs will carry out much of the maintenance
and development functions or at least the responsibilities for procuring such services. While some large
enterprises turning over their housing stock may have systematic housing management systems, they are
not likely to serve the full range of purposes for HMC operation. Records for housing stock from
different enterprises are incomplete and incompatible. Large enterprises also have some staff to manage
worker housing full-time, but more often such tasks have been performed by production workers part-
time. Therefore, HMCs have a limited possibility to recruit experienced staff from the enterprises.
Further, they will also have to carry out functions less familiar in the current system - setting
commercially viable rents and sales prices, collecting them, obtaining long-term financing, and other
financial management functions. The commercial pricing will make it necessary that HMCs provide a
wide range of housing choices to serve the diverse consumers better. These newer types of functions
require expertise that is in short supply in China overall.
6.      Technical assistance to help HMCs develop systems to meet these challenges can be organized
and described in three overlapping groups of activities, called Modules:
Module 1, to help develop management control and information structure and procedures - in other
words, formal structure of HMC management;
Module 2, to help develop analytical, management and planning skills and procedures for housing
development and maintenance - in other words, substantive skills to improve housing delivery and
profitability; and
Module 3, to help establish programs of continued training of all levels of HMC staff in the use of
the skills and procedures developed in Modules 1 and 2.



- 60 -                               ANNEX 3
7.       Module 1 - Establishment of Accounting and Management Information Systems. The
purpose of Module 1 will be to develop HMC's corporate management and control structure, around the
core of a computerized accounting system, integrated with subsidiary records and management
information and reporting systems. Foreign consultant service of a total of about 38 person-months will
be required to design and start implement systems, prepare manuals, and train local consultants and HMC
counterparts. The systems will be developed for computerized operation to the extent feasible, and the
equipment will be procured to implement initial computerization. They will work with a small team of
national-level consultants who will be the main repository of transferred expertise and provide a
continuing assistance to HMC staff and consultants based in each project city. System design and
implementation efforts will be carried out in three phases focussing on different but related aspects of the
management information system, with intervals for implementation and consolidation by local efforts.
8.       The focus of Phase 1 work will be to quickly establish an accounting system and associated
records to meet minimum functional requirements of the new HMCs. At the end of phase 1, functional
management systems will provide international standard accrual accounting outputs with reports on cash
flows, rents, operational costs, and other statutory and internal management reports. Specifically, a chart
of accounts, general ledger, shares register, asset and customer registers, accounts receivables and
payable, bank account and basic control procedures will be established, largely in a manual system but
in the form that can be readily computerized.  This will involve choice and adaptation of accounting
software, design of basic accounting and reporting standards and procedures, evaluation of
implementation resources including existing data and personnel, preparation of manuals, initial
implementation, and planning of further development and training tasks. A team of foreign consultants
financed by a grant of the Government of Australia is expected to lead the Phase 1 work during the
period from about June 1994 to January 1995.
9.       The focus of Phases 2 and 3 will be to add details and supplementary management information
systems to the basic accounting and reporting systems developed in Phase 1, as well as designing
complete management information and planning systems and expanding computerization. Advanced
investment and financial management techniques will be developed.  Technical procedures and
information for property development and maintenance operation developed under Module 2 described
below will be incorporated with the financial and accounting framework. At the end of phase 2, a
structure of a complete financial and housing management system will be established to provide monthly
budget reports, cost control information, asset management and customer services information system,
various levels of reporting procedures and formats, financial and operational projections, capital project
planning and control. During phase 3, these systems will be consolidated and necessary modifications
made. Depending upon the progress of Module 1 - Phase 1 and Module 2, the Phase 2 will be carried
out from about June 1995 to December 1995, and Phase 3 from about June to November 1996.
10.     Module 2 - Development of Property Development and Maintenance Management
Systems. Under this Module, HMCs will utilize consultant services to develop analytical tools and
efficient procedures to evaluate, plan and carry out development and maintenance activities. While basic
skills for construction and maintenance management exist at present, they are geared neither to customer
demands or long-term efficiency and profitability of housing asset operation. Consultant services will
be provided to develop techniques and organizational capacity for market analysis, property assessment,
development and maintenance operational programming and budgeting, and quality control. Specific
issues dealt with will include: procurement, development, redevelopment, contract management, design,
construction, marketing, maintenance planning, management practice, life cycle budget scheduling and
programming, and operational procedures. The consultants will compile relevant technical materials,
develop case studies in all project cities, hold workshops, and preparation of improved operational



- 61-                                 ANNEX 3
manuals. It is expected that the work will require about 21 person-months of foreign consultant services
and 47 person-months of local expert services. The main part of the work will be carried out during the
period from about November 1994 to about May 1995, with a short follow-up activities about a year later
to provide help in developing procedures, managing new arrangements, assessing success and
shortcomings, and furthering program development.
11.      Module 3 - Training Programs. Under this module, professional services will be provided
by training specialists and corporate management specialists to design and establish continuing training
programs, to be conducted at a central location and in-house, for various levels of managers and staff.
Part 1 will be concerned with providing extensive training to senior management on all aspects of HMC
management and will include an overseas training component; part 2 will provide an extensive course on
day-to-day operations for middle management; and part 3 will provide in-house training to HMC
operational staff on basic operations, customer management, maintenance procedures, financial
management, and computer systems. Initially, toward the end of 1994, a training specialist will be
recruited to work for about two months with consultants working on Modules 1 and 2 to advise the latter
on preparation of training materials and conducting training workshops in their respective areas, while
they are carrying out their respective consultant assignments, and to prepare plans for the main part of
the work under Module 3. Consultant services of a further 9 person-months will be provided from about
May 1995 to about December 1996 to design and establish permanent training programs. About twelve
months after this, a short follow-up visit will be made to assess the program success and shortcomings,
and help further program development.
12.      The training programs will be in the following three parts, and the consultants are expected
to design each and help implement initial training programs of each part:
Part 1: training programs for senior HMC executives in essential management principles,
strategic and corporate planning, information value and technologies, financial analysis,
marketing, principles of maintenance planning, redevelopment and development decision-
making. The training programs are expected to be short (two to four weeks) courses
established at, or in conjunction with, a national university's business faculty. These training
will be followed up for some managers by three week overseas training, when they will review
international housing management practices and customer services, private sector construction,
and financial management. A foreign consultant will develop and manage this program;
part 2: centralized training programs to train middle managers in basic management practices,
rental housing stock management, property construction, management information systems,
and decision-making. An overseas training fellowships may also be offered to about 12 middle
managers for approximately 3-6 months of formal or on-the-job training in property
development and management;
part 3: continuing program of training for mid-level managers and operational staff in basic
operations, customer management, maintenance procedures, financial management, and
computer systems. Some of these will be offered in-house, some at local universities and
specialized training institutes. Structured on-the-job training programs will also form an
important part of the training. This module will also establish a centralized program to train
trainers to ensure continuous training and development. The consultant services will focus
largely in developing this part of the Module.



- 62 -                                ANNEX 3
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT
13.      A set of TA modules is planned to provide assistance in areas that are closely related to HMC
TA modules but more specifically needed by municipal agencies - mainly the Real Estate Bureau (REB),
Housing Systems Reform Office (HRO), and the Project Management Office (PMO). For overall housing
market reform as well as success of HMCs and the project, it is essential to create a framework under
which market-oriented HMCs could be expanded, and urban housing market could be further developed.
The establishment of such a framework requires improving city wide property registration process,
enhancing property appraisal and valuation, and strengthening institutional capacity for project monitoring
and evaluation. Three municipal TA modules of moderate scales will, therefore, be provided in these
respective areas.
14.      MODULE 4 - Project Monitoring and Evaluation and Housing Market Development. The
objective of the Module is to assist the project management office and housing systems reform office with
financial and technical assistance to carry out the project monitoring and evaluation program, and develop
institutional capacity for facilitating housing market development. A detailed monitoring program
concerning the development and performance of HMCs and the broader housing market would require,
as discussed in Annex 13 of this Staff Appraisal Report, collecting relevant statistics and conducting
sample surveys and interviews among participating enterprises and individuals. Consultants will be
required to design and conduct sample surveys as well as interviews among participating enterprises and
individuals. A set of personal computers with necessary software will be installed in the project offices
to be used for project monitoring and evaluation purposes. In addition, a technical training program,
including in-house lectures and overseas study tour, will be organized by an international consultant,
which will provide technical skills for senior project staff to carry out economic analysis and policy
researches on real estate market development in China.
15.      MODULE 5 - Property Valuation Methodology and Training. This TA module will be to
help improve property appraisal process and facilitate the housing market development in the project
cities. In order to enhance the technical ability of municipal real estate appraisal teams, the module
include: a study to design an efficient system of valuation exercise as well as staffing and training plans,
training workshops and focused overseas study tours. The emphasis of the training will include
introducing the cities the theories and practices of property appraisal in the developed countries, and
establishing professional contacts between the local appraisal institutes and international real estate
appraisal institutions. One or two foreign consultants may be required to help design improved systems
and conduct a short workshop for advanced appraisal professionals. Local consultants will participate
in these efforts and also take major responsibility for providing basic training on appraisal theories and
methods, according to different needs of municipal appraisal teams, and preparing a draft model manual.
16.      MODULE 6 - Property Registration Systems Improvement.  The current property
registration system in Chinese cities are based on use-right allocation system, and the procedures, from
cadastral mapping to records processing, are cumbersome and carried out manually. This system is
becoming increasingly inadequate to accommodate the emerging real estate market development.
Modernizing the property rights definition and enforcement mechanism, formats and processes of
recording physical and legal attributes will provide a necessary condition for adequate functioning and
development of the housing market and housing finance. This technical assistance module would
accommnodate a range of items concerning clarification of property rights, registration formats and
processes. According to needs of different cities, it would include: review and modification of property
rights definition and recording, with assistance of consultants; purchasing relevant computer equipments
to facilitate map production, data processing, and data recording; and conducting necessary technical



- 63 -                               ANNEX 3
training to operate new systems. Overseas study tours will be provided for legal and real estate officers
to observe international systems of registering and enforcing property rights including condominiums and
mortgages.
D. ADMINISTRATION AND SCHEDULE
17.     Schedule and Administration. There is considerable complementarity between different
Modules. The schedules indicated under each Module are proposed to maximize the complementarity.
As these tentative schedules are likely to be subjected to modification, it would be important that
schedules of different Modules are adjusted in view of progress under other Modules. As most of the
studies and consultancy address issues common to all project cities, they will be managed in combined
contracts by national Housing Systems Reform Office, supported by MOF. The costs will be shared
among municipalities as described in the paragraph below. In each city only a few of HMCs that are to
be established during the project would have been established during the time when the TA would be
carried out. To ensure that others benefit from the TA, the Project Management Office would manage
the TA activities in each city and assign costs to HMCs equitably.
18.     Input and Cost.  The HMC technical assistance modules are estimated to require
approximately 260 person-months of consultant input as shown in Table 1. An Australian Development
Assistance Grant of A$500,000 is planned to be used to obtain foreign consultant services for the first
phase of Module 1, about 17 person-months. Excluding this input, other local and foreign consultant
services are estimated to cost about US$1,601,000 in end-1993 prices in fees, travel, subsistence and
other expenses. The modules for municipal agencies are estimated to require about 18 person-months
of consultancy, at an estimated cost of about $156,000. These costs will be shared among municipalities
in the same proportion as the loan/credit allocated. Training programs associated with the HMC
Modules, especially Module 3, are estimated to cost about US$1,164,000 in subsistence, travel, and
training materials. Similar programs under the municipal TA modules would include about 20 person-
trips and workshops involving about 100 persons, at a total estimated cost of about $356,000. Of these,
costs directly attributable to individual trainees would be paid by each municipality and HMC; but other
costs will be shared in proportion to the loan/credit by city. The TA program will also support
procurement of about 15 sets of micro-computers, a workstation, and associated peripherals for each of
12 HMCs expected to be established by the end of 1995, for an aggregate cost of US$955,000.
Computer equipment procurement for municipal modules would provide for about 45 sets of computers
and associated equipment at a total base cost of about $167,000. Total costs for HMC TA modules with
physical and price contingencies are expected to be about US$4,778,000; for municipal TA modules about
$660,000. These cost estimates are shown in Table 2. They are likely to be modified during project
preparation, particularly after completion of the Module 1, Phase 1.



-64-                               ANNEX 3
TABLE 1. CONSULTANT INPUTS: PERSON-MONTHS BY MODULE
Module       Foreign       Local       Total
Module 1       38*          86          124
Module 2       21           47           68
Module 3       11           55           66
SubTotal      70         188          258
Module 4        1            4            5
Module 5        3            4            7
Module 6        2            4            6
Subtotal       6          12           18
Note:  Of these about 17 person-months are
likely to be provided under consultancy
financed by an Australian Grant.
TABLE 2.   ESTIMATED COSTS
(US$000)
Item                      HMC              MuniciRal
(Modules 1,2,3)      (Modules 4,5,6)
Consultancy
Local                    500                     31
Foreign                1,101*                   125
Training
Domestic                 180                     50
Domestic (part 3)        325
Overseas                 649                    150
Equipment                    955                   167
Total Base Cost           3,711                    523
Contingencies
Physical                  371                     52
Price                     896                     88
Total                     4,778                    663
Note: *     Not including the cost of the 17 person-months
of foreign consultancy expected to be financed
by a grant.



- 65 -                             ANNEX 4
HOUSING MANAGEMENT COMPANIES: FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
OVERVIEW
1.      This Annex presents three different financial projections. The most detailed is Table 1,
which presents operational and financial projections (Balance Sheets, Income Statements, and
Statements of Fund Flows) of a typical HMC for the period 1994-2000. The projection shown is
based on actual data and the current operating plan of a HMC which started its operation (name
withdrawn on request). The model has been developed during project preparation as a Lotus 1-2-3
template. Assumptions used and the relationships among accounts and statements in both operational
and financial projections are summarized below starting from para 4. Page 4 of the Table 1 shows
four major indicators of the HMC finance under different assumptions regarding capital asset base,
new development, rent and interest rate levels. This sensitivity analysis illustrates the importance of
an appropriate balance between the existing housing asset (capital) and new housing investment, and
the importance of maintaining the rent levels in real terms.  Overall, however, it indicates
considerable robustness of the HMC's financial health in the face of several external or management
risks.
2.       Table 2 presents aggregates of projected summary statistics for all HMCs in each of the
four project cities. The statistics represent HMCs now existing as well as those planned to be
established during the project period, based on the action plan agreed by each municipality that
specifies eventual coverage of the new system in terms of total existing housing stock to be
transferred from enterprises to HMCs. The aggregation is achieved by projection using the same
projection model used for individual HMCs, and making projections of all the HMCs in a city as if
it is a HMC with the larger and more gradual transfer of enterprise housing stock than would be the
case for individual HMCs.
3.      Table 3 compares a projection housing acquisition and expenditures incurred by
participating enterprises under the current system a projection of housing stock addition by the HMC
and the wage adjustment required of the same enterprises under the new system. Stock addition
under the current system is assumed to be 8 % a year, an average seen in the last decade for a typical
city. Although this rate of housing development is not likely to be maintained in the future for the
urban area as a whole, profitable enterprises are projected to continue adding to their housing stock
at this pace in the near future. It is also assumed that the enterprises will increase their employment
by 4%  a year.  The assumptions used in HMC projections (Tables 1 and 2), with some
simplifications, are then used to project the level of housing investment that HMC can afford, and
the maximum wage adjustment that enterprises can be asked to provide for the larger number of
employees to be housed. The comparison shows that, during the projection period, the new system
is capable of increasing housing supply faster even while requiring enterprises pay wage supplements
not more than expenditures that they would have made for a smaller stock addition if the current
system continued. This is possible primarily due to long-term financing, which is shown to be
sustainable in this projection as well as in Tables 1 and 2.



- 66 -                              ANNEX 4
DESCRIMON OF THE PROJECTION MODEL: STRUCTURE AND ASSUMPrIONS
4.       The model consists of the following five parts:
(a) Operational Summary: quantity of housing transferred, built, sold, etc.;
(b)  Costs and Prices: costs of investment, rent factors, loan terms, etc.;
(c) Statement of Income and Expenses;
(d) Statement of Flow of Funds; and
(e) Balance Sheet.
5.       OPERATIONAL SUMMARY is mostly based on actual figures and plans available by January
1994 and plans. For the process of new housing acquisition, the model assumes that 25% of new
housing started in a given year would be brought to use (rental or sale) in that year and the rest the
following year; but one third of the cost of the uncompleted housing would be incurred in the year
started. This averages and simplifies the actual process which combines: construction which takes
an average of two years; and purchase. Of new housing purchased or finished, 20% is assumed to
be sold. The quality index is a measure of value per unit space of housing units, especially the
existing ones, compared with a "standard" new unit. The index for existing housing is derived from
valuation. Of the total existing stock on hand, 5% would be rehabilitated in the current year, 5%
would be sold and 0.5% would be demolished in the following year. Rehabilitation costs will be
added to the cost of existing stock. Demolition costs will be a component of new housing' cost.
6.       COST AND PRICES. The cost (or value) of development or purchase is determined by the
prevailing construction cost and land lease cost. These costs are assumed to increase by 12% for
1994, 10% in 1995, and 8% p.a. thereafter. Value of old housing is derived from valuation, and
equals the new housing cost multiplied by quality index. The rents charged are according to the
formula described in detail in Annex 2, and will be adjusted annually along with new housing
construction cost. The operation and maintenance costs were assumed at levels considered necessary
for optimal upkeep, much higher than levels reflected in rent factors. Projected future rates are
shown in this section.
INCOME AND EXPENSES
7.       SALES INCOME AND COST OF SALES: Price of new housing is based on its cost of sales
plus a profit margin of 4-8%. Same as the cost determination, the selling price of existing stock is
a function of the prevailing costs of new housing (construction and land lease costs) and the quality
and quantity of the existing housing units. Cost of sales is equal to 5 % of the cumulated existing
housing cost on the balance sheets at the time of sales.
8.       RENTAL INCOME: New completions in each year are assumed to generate rental revenue
for an average of 4-months. Rents for existing housing will include five or eight factors of cost,
depending upon the year and city. Property tax and insurance will not be retained by HMC. An
assumed vacancy rate of 2% is applied to calculate rental income. The third category of income is
other income, from lease of shops, etc., and it is assumed to be 5% of total rental income.
9.       DEPRECIATION AND INTEREST: Depreciation expenses are calculated based on a base
amount and a combined depreciation rate. Given the assumptions that sales will take place at the
beginning of a year but acquisition and rehabilitation will occur at middle of a year, the base amount
will be: the beginning balance of existing stock - the current year's cost of sales + 1/2 incremental
existing stock costs, where incremental costs include cost of acquired existing stock and rehabilitation



- 67 -                               ANNEX 4
costs. A combined depreciation rate is a factor of amortization of both construction and land lease
costs. Interest expenses shown on the income statements are net amount after deducting capitalized
interests during construction as mentioned below.
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS
10.      EQUITY CAPITAL represents the total value of existing housing stock and cash shares
contributed by participating enterprises in each year. Among which, cash contribution is assumed
to be equivalent to 5 % of cost of existing stock acquired in that year.
11.      BORROWING is determined to be funding necessary after other cash flow items are
considered. Of the necessary borrowing amount, 20% is assumed to be 2-year bridge loans and 80%
is 20-year mortgage loans. Average grace period for 20-year mortgage loans is assumed to be 1.5
years.
12.     INVESTMENT IN NEW HOUSING: Investment in new housing, or current investment,
includes 1) construction costs, 2) land lease cost, 3) demolition costs, and 4) interests during
construction. It is assumed that all land lease costs will be paid at the time the development scheme
is started, and 50% of the construction cost will be incurred in the first year and the remaining 50%
in the second year. Domestic inflation rates described above for determining existing stock's cost
are applied here to calculate the construction cost, the land lease cost, and the demolition cost.
13.     INTERESTS DURING CONSTRUCTION: In accordance with new accounting standards
effective since July 1, 1993, interest expenses during construction period should be capitalized as part
of housing construction costs, but this capitalized amount cannot exceed current year's interest
expenses calculated under the accrual accounting basis.
14.      DIVIDEND is proposed to be the lesser of 80% of income or 80% of internal source of
funds after amortization of loans.
BALANCE SHEETS
15.      WORK-IN-PROGRESS: It is assumed that 25 % of the housing started in a year is put to use
(either for sale or rent) within that year, and 75 % by the end of the following year. In other words,
75 % of current investment is presented as work-in-progress on the balance sheets at year end. The
cost of new housing on the balance sheets at the first year end would be 80% of new completions
cost, or 20% (80% * 25%) of current investment cost due to the work-in-progress assumptions. In
the following years, new completions would include previous year's work-in-progress and 25% of
newly started housing. Therefore, the ending balance of new housing cost on the balance sheets
would be its beginning balance plus 80% of the cost of new completions.
16.      CURRENT ASSETS: One month's rental income and 1/24 of annual sales income are
deemed not received at year end. Cash/bank is planned to cover one month's operating expenses and
15 days' payment for new housing investment and existing housing rehabilitation costs. Reserves,
or retained earnings, are cumulative balance of net income after distribution and declaration of
dividends.



- 68 -
Annex 4
Table 1
A JOINT-STOCK HOUSING MANAGEMENT COMPANY                  Page 2
OPERATION AND FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS (1994 - 2000)
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999    2000
OPERATIONAL SUMMARY
Housing Stock Changes (1,000 m2 floor space)
Existing Stock:
Acquired                              600   250    50    50    50        0       0
Cumulative                 600   850   900   950  1000  1000    1000
Sold  Old                       5.0%     0    30    41    41    41    42        39
Rehabilitated                   5.0%   30    41    41    41    42    39         37
Demolished                      0.5%     0     3     4      4     4      4       4
New Housing:
Started%Bought                        120   100    90    80    60    50         30
Put to use                              30   115    98    88    75    58        45
Cumulative                  30   145   243   330   405   463       508
Sold, New                     10.0%    3    12    10        9     8     6        5
Rental Stock:
Pre-Reform Exisiting Stock            600   817   822   827   831   786        742
New Housing Since Reform                27   131   218   297   365   416       457
Total                                 627   948  1040  1124  1196  1202    1199
Vacancy, %                               2%    2%    2%    2%    2%    2%        2%
Number of Workers, 1000                    40    10      5     5      5     4       3
Cumulative                             40    50    55    60    65    69         72
m2/worker(rent or own)                  16    20    21    21    22    21        21
Quality Indicator               Base=100             Detr. 98.5% Rehab to          90
Pre-reform Existing Stock               75    75    74    74    74    73        73
New Units                             100   101   102   103   104   105        106
Others Since Reform                          100   100   100    99    99        98
Average                     76    78    80    81    82    82        83
COST FACTORS
Capital Costs, Yuan/m2/yr
Price Increase, %                    12.0  12.0  10.0   8.0   8.0   8.0        8.0
Land lease                            300   336   373   407   439   474        512
Construction                          750   840   932  1016  1098  1185    1280
Rent Factors
Maintenance                     1.0%     8     9    10    10    11    12        13
Management                      0.4%    3      3     4      4     4     5        5
Depreciation, land lease        1.5%    5      5     6      6     7     7        8
Depreciation  building          3.0%   23    25    28    30    33    36         38
Subtotal (3 factors)        38    42    47    51    55    59        64
Return on Investment            5.0%   53    59    65    71    77    83         90
Housing Tax                   12.0%      0     0    15    17    18    19        21
Subtotal (5 factors)        90   101   127   139   150   162       175
Land Charge                              1     1     1      2     2     2        2
Insurance                      0.2%     2      2     2     2      2     2        3
Profit                         4.0%    4       4     4      5     5     6        6
Total (8 factors)           96   108   135   147   159   172       185
Budgeted Costs, Y/m2
Routine O & M                  2.0%   15    17    19    20    22    24          26
Major Repairs                   3.5%   26    29    33    36    38    41         45
Rehabilitation                40.0%  300   336   373   407   439   474         512
Demolition                              15    17    19    20    22    24        26
Loan Interests, %
20  years           13.5  13.5  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5    11.5
2 years            11.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0    10.0
less than 1 year           9.4   8.5   8.5   8.5   8.5   8.5       8.5



- 69 -
Annex 4
Table 1
Page 2
A JOINT-STOCK HOUSING MANAGEMENT COMPANY
(Yuan million)
INCOME STATEMENTS                       1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999    2000
INCOME
Rental Revenue
Pre-reform Existin  Stock              40    60    76    83    90    91        93
New Housing Since Reform                0      3    17    31    46    60       74
Current Year Completions                1     4      4     4     4      3       3
Total Rental Revenue              41    67    97   118   139   155      170
Sales Revenue
Pre-reform Existing Stock               0    26    40    43    47    51        51
New Housing Since Reform                2    11    15    15    14    12        10
Total Sales Revenue                 2    37    55    58    61    63        62
Other Income                                2     3     5     6      7     8       8
TOTAL INCOME                           45   107   157   183   207   226       240
EXPENDITURES
Cost ot Sales, Old                      0    24    33    34    35    36        34
Cost of Sales, New                      2    10    14    14    13    11         9
Routine 0 & M                           9    13    19    22    25    28        31
Major Repairs                           4      6     7     8     8      9       9
Depreciat ion - old stock               6    15    18    18    19    20        19
Depreciation - new building             0     2      4     8    11    13       16
Sales Taxes & Insurance                 0     0    13    16    19    22        24
Total Operating Costs               22    70   108   119   131   139       143
Non-operating Expenditures              1      2     3     4     4      5       5
Interest Expense (net of                0     3      8    17    25    32       37
interest during construction)
NET INCOME                             22    33    38    42    47    50        55
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS                   1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999    2000
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Sources of Funds
Net Income                             22    33    38    42    47    50        55
Depreciation                            6    16    22    26    30    33        35
Total Internal Soruces                 28    49    60    68    77    83        90
Equity Capital                           483   230    51    55    59       0       0
LT Borrowings (20-yr loan)                66    81    77    73    57    49        29
Bridge Loan (2-yr)                          7     9     9     8      6     5       3
TOTAL SOURCES                         584   369   196   204   199   137       122
APPLICATIONS
Acqisition of Existing Stock             473   219    48    53    57       0       0
Investment in New Building                81   126   122   119   103    89        67
Interest During Construction               5    14    15    14    13    10         8
Less: Cost of Sales                      (2)  (34)  (47)  (48)  (48)  (47)    (43)
Rehabilitation                              9    14    15    17    18    19       19
Other Investment                            2     1     1     1      1     1       1
Total Capital Expenditures            567   340   154   156   144    72        51
In(de)crease in Net Liquid Asset           (1)    3     3     2      0     2       1
Amortization                                0     0    11    17    21    24       25
Dividend Paid                              17    26    28    30    35    39       44
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                    584   369   196   204   199   137       122



- 70 -
Annex 4
Table 1
Page 3
A JOINT-STOCK HOUSING MANAGEMENT COMPANY
BALANCE SHEETS (1994 -2000)
(Yuan million)
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999    2000
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash/Bank                               6    12    15    16    17    17        16
Receivables                             3      7    10    12    14    16       17
Investment/Other                        1     1      2     2     2      3       3
Total Current Assets               10    20    28    30    33    35        35
Fixed Assets
Pre-Reform Housing Stock              482   691   720   753   790   770       750
New Housing Since Reform               19   109   234   356   472   572       656
Gross Fixed Asset                 501   799   954  1109  1262  1342    1406
Less: Accumulated Depreciation
Pre-Reform Housing                    6    21    37    54    71    87       101
New Housing                           0     2      6    14    25    38       54
Net Fixed Assets in Service           494   777   910  1042  1167  1217    1251
Work-in-Progress                       64   105   103   100    87    74        56
Other Fixed Assets                      2     3      4     5     6      7       8
TOTAL ASSETS                          571   905  1044  1177  1293  1334    1351
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                        6    12    15    16    17    17        16
Short-Term Debts                        4     5      5     5     6      6       6
Other                                   1     1      2     2     3      3       3
Current Liabilities                11    18    22    23    26    26       25
Long-Term Debts (20-year)                 66   147   220   284   329   362       371
Bridge Loan (2-year)                        7    16    17    17    14    12        9
Total liabilities                  84   181   259   324   369   399      405
Equity Capital                           483   713   764   819   878   878       878
Retained Earnings                          4    11    21    34    46    57        68
487   724   785   853   924   935      946
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY          571   905  1044  1177  1293  1334    1351
Key,,Ratios:
CurrenrtRatio                        0.95  1.12  1.24  1.31  1.28  1.37    1.43
LT Debt as % of Debt and Equity         13    18    23    26    27    28        28
Return on Assets (1)                     9      5     5     6     6      7       7
Operating Ratio (%)                     51    67    71    68    65    64        62
Debt Service Coverage Ratio           5.66  3.16  2.03  1.78  1.75  1.73    1.80
Loan/Construction (1)                   77    58    56    54    47    46        34



- 71 -
Annex 4
Table 1
Page 4
JOINT-STOCK HOUSING MANAGEMENT COMPANY
KEY RATIOS AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
BASE CASE
1. Net Income (Yuan million)        22      33     38      42      47     50      55
2. Debt Service Coverage 1/       5.66   3.16   2.03    1.78    1.75    1.73    1.80
3. Operational Surplus/Equity 2/   5%      6%      5%     5%      5%      6%      6%
4. Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio    15%    27%    31%    37%    39%    40%    40%
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS:
A. With 20% Larger Cumulative Existing Stock
1. Net Income                       22      35     40      47      54     60      66
2. Debt Service Coverage          5.66   3.34   2.13    1.95    1.97   2.03    2.16
3. Operational Surplus/Equity      5%      6%      5%     5%      6%      6%      7%
4. Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio    15%    26%    29%    33%    32%    31%    29%
B. With 20% More New Construction Started
1. Net Income                       22      33     39      42      45     48      53
2. Debt Service Coverage          4.77   2.63    1.69    1.49   1.47    1.47   1.53
3. Operational Surplus/Equity      5%      6%      4%     4%      4%      4%      5%
4. Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio    18%    34%    40%    46%    49%    51%    51%
C. With 10% Lower Rent
1. Net Income                       18      26     28      30      32     33      37
2. Debt Service Coverage          4.84   2.73    1.72   1.51    1.48    1.46   1.51
3. Operational Surplus/Equity      4%      5%      3%     3%      3%      4%      4%
4. Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio    15%    27%    32%    38%    40%    42%    43%
D. With 3% Higher Interest Rate
1. Net Income                       22      32     36      38      40     41      45
2. Debt Service Coverage          4.73   2.61    1.72    1.52    1.48    1.47    1.52
3. Operational Surplus/Equity       5%     5%      4%     4%      4%      4%      5%
4. Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio    15%    28%    32%    37%    39%    41%    41%
Note to Table 1:
1/  Debt Service Coverage is defined as (income before interest and depreciation) devided by
(interests and principal repayment of long-term loans). Among which, interests include both
interest expenses and interest during construction.
2/  Operational Surplus is the portion of internal source of funds availabe for investment and
dividend distribution, after debts and interests are paid off. It is calculated as follows:
(net income + depreciation - interest during construction - repayment of long-term loans).



- 72 -
Annex 4
Summaxy of Aggregate Operation and Financial Projections                              Table 2
of All HMCs by City
Beijing                      Chengdu
Items \ Year            1994      1997      2000      1994      1997      2000
HOUSING (cumulative by yea cnd)
Existing Stock (million m2)                 1.20      4.50      6.80      0.70     2.50      3.60
NewHousingCompleted(millionm2)              0.0S      1.16      2.65      0.05      0.66      1.35
FINANCIAL SUMMARY (Yuan million)
Income and Exuenses
Total Rental Revenuc                        109       575      1,122       48       293       561
Total Sales Revenue                           13      353       657         4       130       227
Total Sales & Operating Costs                59       675      1,280       26       286       513
NetIncome                                    65       218       381        26       114       197
Fund Flows
Cash from Operations before Interest         95       721      1,355       36       319       585
Investment in New Building                  220       691      1,135      122       327       367
Long-Term Borrowing                         165       301       489       104       198       177
Debt Service                                  14      181       384         8        95       193
Balan"c Sheet
Fixed Assets in Service                    1,275    6,021    10,573       583     2,767     4,666
Total Ascts                                1,479    6,744    11,785       695     3,115     5,098
Long-Term Debt                              165       923      1,98S      104       608     1,090
Equity Capital                             1,239     5,464    9,097       561     2,357     3,733
Ningbo                       Yantai                    Four Cities Total
Items \ Year            1994      1997      2000      1994      1997      2000      1994      1997      2000
HOUSING (cumulative by ear end)
Existing Stock (million m2)                 0.50      2.30     3.30      0.60      2.30      3.50       3.00     11.60     17.2
New Housing Compicted (million m2)          0.05      0.66      1.25     0.04      0.53      1.05       0.21      3.01      6.3
FINANCIAL SUMMARY (Yuan million)
Income and Expm
Total Rental Revenue                         37       287       526        33       251       480       232      1,406     2,63
Total Sales Revenuc                           2        93       179         5       126       222        24       702      1,285
Total Sales & Operating Cost                 IS       241       450        24       258       472        127     1,460     2,715
Net Income                                   21       113       137        19       105       195        131      550       96
Fund Flows
CashfroniOpertions beforeInterest            29       284       519        31       236       522       191      1,610     2,981
Investmcnt in New Building                  115       254       314        86       224       263       543      1,496     2,07
Long-Term Borrowing                         103       160       153        62        93        51       434       752       87
DcbtServicc                                   3        86       154         5        68       103         35      430       83
Balanoc Shoct
FixedAsset inService                        411     2,554     4,117       449     2,191     3,735      2,718    13,533    23,091
Total Asset                                 516     2,836     4,489       530     2,439     4,057      3,220    15,134   25,42
Long-Term Debt                              103       587       938        62       321       474       434      2,439     4,490
Equity Capital                              390     2,131     3,317       438     1,980     3,339      2,623    11,932    19,48



- 73 -                                     Annex 4
Table 3
Comparison of Enterprise Expenditures and Employee Housing Provision
under the Current and HMC Systems
Year    1994      1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
A. Under the Old System
(by Enterprises)
al Acquisition         m2         8800     9504    10264    11085    11972    12930    13964
@ UnitCost(Y/m2)              1050      1260     1411     1524     1646      1778     1920
Housing Stock       m2      110000   118800   128304   138568   149654   161626   174556
Asset Value     Y million    86.6    112.3    136.0    159.2    186.6    218.9    257.0
NumberofWorkers               9167     9533      9915    10311    10724    11153    11599
provided Housing Number     4400     4752      5132     5543     5986     6465      6982
%        48%       50%      52%      54%      56%       58%      60%
Expenditures        Yuan 10000
Acquisition                    924      1198     1449     1690     1971      2299     2681
Oper & Maint         2.0%      231       299      362      422      493      575       670
Less Rent, @YIm2      0.50      66       71        77       83       90       97       105
a2 Total Expenditures             1089     1426     1734     2029      2374     2776     3247
B. Under the New System
(by HMCs)
bl Acquisition          m2       17600    19008    20529    22171    17958    19395    20947
(b1/al)                       200%     200%     200%     200%      150%     150%     150%
Housing Stock       m2      110000   127600   146608   167137   189308   207266   226661
- Asset Value      Y million    86.6    123.4    161.9    202.8    251.9    300.0    357.0
Workers Housed         No.    4400      5104     5864     6685     7572      8291     9066
%      48%      54%      59%      65%       71%      74%      78%
Rental Income        Yuan 10,000
Rents, Old Housing             878      1053     1180     1274     1376      1486     1605
Rents, New Housing              59       287      583      934     1334      1752     2255
Less O&M                       231      322       414      509      623      737       870
Gross Income                   705      1018     1348     1699     2087     2501      2990
Funds Flow
Acquisition Cost              1848      2395     2897     3379     2956      3448     4022
New Loans                     1478      1901     2287     2652     2291     2642      3048
Loan Balance                  1478     3352      5575     8123    10261    12684    15439
Self Financing                 370       494      610      727      665      806       974
Principal Payment                0        28       63      105      153      218       293
Interest Payment               109       326      513      753      965      1205     1476
@ Interest p.a.     %         14.8     13.5     11.5      11.0     10.5     10.5     10.5
Debt Service + Financing       479      848      1187     1585     1783     2229      2743
Net Cash + Reserve             226      216       255      267      525      621       755
Dividend                       181       173      204      214      420      497       604
Retained Earnings               45        93      153      222      349       508      710
C. Wage Adiustment by Enteprises
(given to           100% of residents regardless of employer)
Total WageSupplement           870      1263     1674     2108     2596      3114     3724
cl Net of DMdend                   689     1091     1470     1894      2176     2616     3120
Cost Savings for Enterprise
(a2 - c1)                     400      335       263      134      198       160      127
Note: * Percentages shown are rents as % of capital cost of new housing



-74 -                                ANNEX 5
SUMMARY OF CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR
APPRAISING AND SERVICING HOUSING MORTGAGE LOANS
I. LOANS TO HIMCS FOR ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF RENTAL HOUSING
A. Basic Terms and Criteria for Loans to HMCs
Loans may not exceed 80% of cost of new construction or acquisition. Up to 90% can be
financed for projects approved in the first year of new HMCs which incur heavy start-up
expenditures, if it can be shown that: the cash flow constraints will be eased soon, for
example by imminent addition of existing stock, and that available cash is not diverted outside
of the core business of housing rental.
The World Bank loan/credit should not exceed the cost of construction incurred after April 1,
1993 and never been financed by the loan/credit before.
- Collateral properties should have projected net rental income (rent receipt minus expenses)
that are more than 150% of the repayment of the request loan, both calculated for the first
year of loan repayment. This requirement may be replaced with a requirement that the
collateral properties generate current cash flow equivalent to 120% of the loan payment or
more if the conditions stated above apply and the World Bank does not object.
Term of the loan will be 20 years. Grace period equal to the construction period or two
years, whichever is shorter, may be granted during which principal payment would not be
required.
Borrower (HMC) qualification criteria would include:
-     Sound financial status and prospect (debt-service coverage over 1.5, for example);
-     Proven track record of profitability, sound property management, marketing, rent collection,
and cost control;
-     No large investment for speculative activities - housing for sale, etc. (relative to actual record
of sales) especially to non-project participants;
-     Not more than 70% of total borrowing during the past 3 years from this bank;
-     No history of loan rescheduling of longer than one year for more than 10% of the loan in the
past two years.
Default:
When any of the approval conditions have been violated during any time before full
repayment, the loan will be accelerated, i.e., full balance of the loan will be due. In addition,
fine will be assessed in cases the property financed is used for purposes other than agreed,
payment is late, etc. Failing the full payment, the collateral would be foreclosed and rent
collection will be taken over.



-75-                                    ANNEX 5
B. Appraisal and Servicing Procedures
Information to be submitted by HMC upon Application
a.     On the (new) property to be rinanced:
Physical specifications of the property (A site plan, plans of housing unit types and
description of structural types will suffice as submission for prior review by the World Bank);
Evidence of proper permits such as land lease, planning permit, building permit, environment
permit and other certificates; environmental impact assessment; and resettlement plans (for
submission to the World Bank prior review, summaries of the above will suffice, except that
full resettlement plans, according to the agreed format, will be subject to World Bank prior
review and approval if resettlement involves 200 persons or more);
Projected rental revenues by type, supported by demand indication such as the waiting list of
participating enterprise workers and the enterprises' ability to provide wage supplements;
Projected operation and maintenance expenses (comparison with similar properties, if
available, and past experience);
Purchase contract or a schedule of construction cost estimates, detailed breakdown of costs by
land, resettlement, construction, and other items;
Schedule of estimated disbursement (based on the estimated progress of construction and
contractual arrangements) along with statement of HMC's own expenditures for the property;
Contractual arrangements including description of selection process of the contractor;
b.     On the collateral (existing) properties:
IDescription of the properties including age, structural types, typical unit plans, facilities, etc;
Rental revenues and expenses for the past three years. Projected rental revenues and expenses
for the next three years;
Copy of ownership and land lease certificates;
Tenant roll, and waiting list.
C.     On the HMC:
Corporate structure and key personnel;
Audited detailed financial statements including supplemental detailed statements of assets,
investments and borrowing for the past three years;
Financial projection for the next five years.



- 76 -                               ANNEX 5
2.    Appraisal and Recommendation Procedures
The following steps will be undertaken provided that the previous steps are satisfactory.
-     Screening of information submitted, by loan officers to check completeness and compliance
with basic terms;
-     Verification and evaluation of the information supplied, with the help of independent
specialists in architecture, finance, engineering, law, etc.;
-     Pre-construction (or Pre-Purchase) joint review meeting among lender, HMC, designers and
contractors.
-     Recommendations by loan officer of loan amount, collateral requirements, loan terms,
insurance requirements and other requirements and conditions.
-     Approval by Loan Committee, subject to no objection listed below.
-     Submittal of appraisal report to the Project Management Office (for all loans) and to the
World Bank (for the first two loans and any loan larger than $7.5 million equivalent, and
other loans for which the World Bank requests documents before the bank's appraisal).
-     Final approval or confirmation letter.
3.    Contract Signing
-     Signing and notarization of mortgage loan contract, land lease and housing certificates.
4.    Disbursement
-     Loans for Construction: According to progress of construction (invoice or receipt
accompanying adequate evidence of completion or delivery certified by supervising engineer).
Undisbursed balance of a loan will be canceled and excess amount needs new authorization.
Part of the funds that would be financed by the World Bank can be withdrawn from the
Special Account to be managed by the Finance Bureau.
-     Loans for Acquisition: On closing.
5.    Information to be provided annually by EIMC during repayment period
-     Revenues and expenses of collateral and financed properties.
-     Rent roll, and waiting list
-     Audited financial statements of HMCs
-     Other information needed for lien adjustment (every three years)



- 77 -                                ANNEX 5
II. LOANS TO INDIVIDUALS FOR PURCHASE OF NEW HOUSING FOR OWN USE
A. Basic Criteria for Loans to Individual Homeowners
Loan amount not to exceed 70% of housing price or appraised value, whichever is lower
(World Bank loan/credit amount is subject to the same limitation specified under HMC loans);
Borrower qualification would include: Income more than 2.5 times all debt payments; record
of stable employment and income; at least one of the borrowers employed by participating
enterprises (at the time of application); no personal debts larger than annual income; no
history of loan default or arrears in the past two years.
Collateral and Guaranty: Housing being purchased. Authorization to attach personal
belongings, bank accounts, insurance proceeds, and wages in the even of default. Personal
references.
B. Appraisal and Servicing Procedures
Information to be submitted by individuals purchasing house
Application form showing: personal and financial (income and debt) information of all co-
borrowers, address of the new housing, and amount of loan applied for;
Supplemental evidence for the above, including employment certificates, salary slips, evidence
of other income, copy of bank accounts showing sufficient balance for downpayment and
other expenses; and if necessary, copy of life insurance policy, credit reference and personal
reference letters;
Draft purchase contract along with a copy of the condominium certificate supplied by the
seller.
2.    Appraisal and Recommendations
Evaluation of information after verification;
Appraisal of the property;
Determination of repayment reschedule, escrow of insurance and taxes, and any other
requirements and conditions;
Approval by the loan officer or loan committee.
4.    Contract Signing and Disbursement
Signing and notarization of mortgage loan contract, land lease and housing certificates.
Simultaneous deposit of downpayment into an escrow account;
Disbursement of full price to the seller after three days' wait.



- 78 -                              ANNEX 6
HOUSING FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM: OUTLINE
MODULE 1: HANDS-ON ASSSTANCE.
An Advisor with knowledge and experience in housing mortgage lending practices in
market economies will be retained by the Central Coordinating Group (CCG) for a total of about
13 months over four years starting from September 1994. The main tasks will be to:
Assist the participating banks in appraising a few initial loans and making appraisal reports
submitted to the Bank Group;
Help evaluate experience of the mortgage lending during the initial years; and
Help prepare detailed terms of reference or training plan for the modules described below,
help recruit and manage the consultants, and participate to a limited extent.
MODULE 2: DEVELOPMENT OF MORTGAGE LOAN APPRAIsAL AND SERVICING MANUAL
Objective: to develop a technical manual for housing mortgage loan appraisal and loan
management, that supplements formal rules and will be used for training and reference of loan
officers.
Scope: detailed procedures and methodologies for loan application, appraisal, loan servicing and
monitoring, modification and closing.
Schedule and Method:
Phase 1: Prepare the first draft based on U.S. and U.K. practices, hold a training seminar
(completed by January 1994), revise and finalize the first version (by June 1994);
Phase 2: Collect comments on the first version after about a year of experience (starting from
about May 1995), prepare modifications in consultation with participating banks,
adding more details; finalize with foreign consultant help (by about November 1995);
and hold a training seminar (by about December 1995).
1NPUT:
Phase 1: 2 person-months of foreign consultant services (funded with JGF), 3 person-months
(PM) of local consultant services;
Phase 2: Consultant person-months: 2 foreign, 6 local, not including the Advisor's input.
MODULE 3: STUDY FOR HOUSING FINANCE SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT IN CHINA
Objective: to help develop lending and borrowing instruments and management techniques for
housing finance, and examine policy options to develop enabling environment.



- 79 -                               ANNEX 6
Scope: analytical and operational techniques for asset/liability management; design and
deployment of borrowing and lending instruments; recommendation of further technical
assistance and training; legal instruments; prudential regulation; examination of capital market
development in China.
Method: interviews, data collection and analysis focusing on demand for housing finance and
for long-term savings; comparative review of international experience; and projection of impacts
of recommended measures on participating banks, housing and capital markets.
Schedule and Input: The study would start from about June 1995 and take about eight months.
Before finalization of the report, a seminar will be held with participation of senior officers of
the participating banks and relevant policy authorities. The study would require about 25
person-months of local consultant input and 12 person-months of foreign consultant assistance,
about 10 of which in China.
MODULE 4: COMPUTERIZATION AND BASIC SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
Objective: to strengthen capacity of the participating banks by computerizing the operations and
by upgrading staff's ability in the use of computers, new accounting system, and other
fundamental skills of finance operations.
Scope: All staff of participating banks will be trained at least in some part in: basic accounting,
financial analysis and projection, use of computers, capital markets analysis, legal instruments,
banking procedures.
Schedule and Input: Basic skills training programs will start from about October 1993 and last
about four years, under a plan finalized with the help of the Advisor. The training will be
conducted in local teaching/research institutions, supplemented with in-house workshops and
courses arranged centrally by CCG.
Computerization plans will be drafted by December 1994 with the help of local consultants
(about 8 person-months) and finalized with the help of a foreign consultant (about 2 person-
months). The project will finance procurement of about 120 sets of microcomputers and 10 sets
of workstations.
MODULE 5: TRAING OVERSEAS
Starting from about October 1994, according to a plan to be finalized with the assistance of
the Advisor, about thirty senior managers of the participating banks will conduct short-term tours
(about 3-4 weeks) of countries where real estate finance is well developed. The focuses of
observation will include: operation of housing markets; various capital market instruments;
comparison of different models of housing finance; housing finance instruments; and management
systems and techniques. In addition, 5-10 middle-level managers of the participating banks will
attend longer training programs in teaching or banking institutions overseas for a period of three to
six months.



-80-                               ANNEX 6
COSTS AND ADMINISTION
Cost estimates are summarized as follows:
US$ '000         Yuan million
Consultants
(Fees, Travel, Subsistence)
Foreign*           565              4.91        (30 person-months)
Domestic           140              1.22        (62 person-months)
Training and Seminars
Domestic           233              2.02
Overseas           360              3.13
Computers and Peripherals
664              5.79
Total Base Cost       1,962             17.07
Contingencies
Physical           196              1.71
Price              345              8.13
Total                 2,503             26.91
Note: This does not include the first phase of Module 2.
Adminibtration and Cost Sharing. A task group of CCG -- consisting of representatives of
headquarters of PBC, ICBC, PCBC and of MOF -- will coordinate the TA program. In particular,
the consultancy and studies will be managed by CCG and the costs shared among participating cities
on the basis of World Bank loan/credit allocations. Within each city, costs will be shared evenly
between two banks. Other expenditures will be the responsibility of each participating bank, although
it is assumed that they, too, will be approximately proportional to loan/credit allocation. Part of the
training programs in each city would be coordinated by PBC local branch and PMO. Most of the
computer equipment would be procured as part of the large international procurement packages for
computers needed for the project as a whole.



- 81-                                ANNEX 7
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS OF PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INTERMEDLARIES
1       Eight banking units will participate in the Project. These are the Industry and Commerce
Bank of China (ICBC) in all four cities; the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) in cities
excluding Yantai; and the Yantai Housing Savings Bank (YHSB). PCBC became the first specialized
bank to engage in housing finance operations and established Real Estate Credit Departments (RECD)
at headquarters and most local branches. The RECDs keep independent accounts and pay taxes to
local government. ICBC's housing finance activities are relatively new and are a part of the portfolio
of branch businesses.
2        Therefore, two standard financial projection models have been constructed. One model is
for an independent unit and is used for YHSB and RECDs of PCBC branches as well as the RECD of
Beijing ICBC which has an independent accounting status and has been conducting substantial housing
finance business for about two years. Another model, to be used by other ICBC branches treats
housing finance operation as a profit center within a local branch.
3        The models, their description, and projections for all eight banking units have been
developed during project preparation and are available in the Project File. Due to space constraints,
standard sets of financial statements for one PCBC RECD and one ICBC branch are shown as
samples in Tables 2 and 3 (names withdrawn on request). Table 1 shows selected indicators of
financial status of all 8 banking units in 1992 and as projected for year 2000.
4        The financial statements are derived from detailed and voluminous worksheets, which
model relationships between various accounts in a complex but conventional manner. A few
computational simplifications and features of interest are noted below:
Current Assets and Current Liabilities are projected by simple extrapolation of their balances
at the end of 1992, assuming the samne growth rates estimated from past trends and adjusted by
each unit for various reasons.
Non-Interest Expenses are estimated on the basis of the amount of long-term loans and
historical expense rates relative to such loans.
Long-Term Assets and Liabilities. The World Bank loan/credits are as projected independently
by two PFIs in each city, and therefore do not add up to the total loan/credit allocated to each
city. Long-term bond issues are subject to People's Bank approval and also to large market
uncertainty, as a relatively new and instrument. Plans for long-term mortgage loans are tied
with these long-term resources, and hence are subject to the high degree of indeterminacy.
Equities. The specialized banks (ICBC and PCBC) are owned by the State and most after-tax
earnings are remitted. Therefore, capital, general reserves, and dividends have only limited
practical significance at present. YHSB is the only exception in this case. Nevertheless, capital
and reserves of the specialized banks have begun to be at least notionally allocated by branch
and some amounts are retained at branches under a few reserve categories such as staff welfare
funds, in a move to increase branch-level accountability and incentives.



- 82 -
Annex 7
Table 1
Selected Financial Data of Participating Banks
(Yuan million)
1992
Housino Loans                      Net
Total     Long-                 Term      Interest
City     Bank                 Assets     Term       Other    Deposits   Income
Beijing   PCBC    RECD              1,500         0      1,082        236         25
ICBC    RECD             1,023         0        120        373      ?
Chengdu   PCBC    RECD               679          0        129         25      ??
ICBC    Branch          15,648         0          0      4,984      ??
RECD                           0         0          0          0
Ningbo     PCBC    RECD              189         11        109         42          3
ICBC    Branch           5,645         0          0      1,782      ??
RECD                           0         0          0          0
Yantai    YHSB                       850          7        334         38         25
ICBC    Branch           7,059         0          0      1,733        206
RECD                           0         0          0          0
2000
Housing Loans                     IBRD        Net
Total     Long-                 Term       Loan      Interest
City     Bank                 Assets     Term       Other    Deposits    Balance    Income
Beijing   PCBC    RECD             8,317       2,273      2,389       592        932        556
ICBC    RECD            4,663       1,796        611      1,080       932        189
Chengdu   PCBC    RECD             2,267         666       244        121        373        103
ICBC    Branch         36,558       1,594        188      8,903       373       1,765
RECD                       1,594        188        242        373        144
Ningbo    PCBC    RECD              1,902      1,333       360        245        373         73
ICBC    Branch          15,152        824         55      4,380       303       1,081
RECD                         824         55        140        303         68
Yantai     YHSB                     2,630        993        942       317        251        162
ICBC    Branch          16,966      1,263        159      4,522       234       1,173
RECD                       1,263        159         99        234        148



- 83 -
Ansnex 7
Table 2
PCBC Real Estate Credit Departnent                                                             Page I
Projected Financial Statemnents, 1993-2000
(Yuan milhion)
L BALANCE SHEET
(as of December 31)
I!l! im '   im                                                                    1225i   12                   291          im   l            
Current Asets
Cash and reserves                          40.93        341.15        444.01        443.14        471.13         579.70        732.19        878.14       1073.28
Workingcapit tloans                      1081.58       1,199.74      1.35.71       1.494.58      1.64404       1.80845       1.989.29      2,.18.22      2,407.04
Other current assets                      200.24        241.68        247.30        335.58        344.79        370.86        467.65         607.07        712.17
Current maturity of LT loans               59.41          0.00          0.70          13.26         34.09         59.28         82.09        100.75        117.90
- - -- --- - -- - -     --- - - - - - - -   -- - - - -- - - -   --- - - - - - - -   --- - - - - -   I- -     -- - -- - -- - - -     --- - - - - - - -   -- -- - -- - -- -   ------------------.
1,382.15      1772.56       2.050.72      2.286.56      2494.05       2.818.28      3.271.22      3,774.17      4.310.39
Long-term Loans (net of provision
for doubtful accounts)
Individual mortgag loan                     0.00          0.00         54.15         115.63       201.101        276.15        333.99        383.96        432.18
Housing managementoempany                   0.00          0.00        207.90        543.54        936.28       1,263.13      1,492.55      1.674.54       1,841.27
Odierlong-term loans                      106.05        262.62        341.41        443.83        576.98        750.08         975.10      1.267.63       1,647.92
..- - - -    ....   ...  . . -     --- - - - - -  ..-.-    --- - - - - - - -   --- - - - -   I- - -    --- - - - - - - -   --- - - - - - - -   --- - - - - - - -   -- - - - -- - - -   -- - - - -- - - -
106.05       262.62        603.46       1,103.01      1,714.27      2,289.35      2,801.64      3.326.12       3.921.37
Fixed Assets (net of accu. depr.)           12.00         20.52         28.39         40.28          51.20         61.14         7(0.11        78.10         85.12
Total Assets                           1.500.20       2,055.71      2,682.56      3,429.85      4,259.51      5.168,78      6,142.98      7.178.39      8316.388
Current Liabilities
Curmnt deposits                          1,017.85      1,430.99      1,726.78      2.068.78      2.478.67      2,969.97      3,558.85      4,264.74      5.110.93
Othercurrentliabilities                   135.34        210.17        253.99        300.99        362.53        426.33         491.17        559.24        645.45
Cunrnt maturity of LT liability             3.00)         01.1)          (.0n0        (1(X)         o0.)           )(.x)        71.67         71.67         71.67
Term deposits                              268.01        302.17        338.59        379.41        425.17         476.47        533.98        598.46        670.75
Bonds payable                               0o.0           0.1)          0.0,          (1.00          11.00        ((.1) ,        1.18)         11.00         0.00
IBRD loans                                   0.00          (1.o        200.00        430.00        670.(o)        855s.0        9(13.33       931.67        860.00
Total liabilities                       1,424.20      1.943.33      2,519.37      3.199.18      3,936.38      4.727.77      5,559.18)     6,425.77      7,358.80
Equity
Capital                                    76.00         76.00         76.00          76.00         76.00         76.00         76.0)         76.00         76.00
Retained easnings                           0.00         36.38         87.19         154.66       247.14        365.01         517.98        676.62        s82.09
76.00        112.38        163.19        230.66        323.14        441.01        583.98        752.62        958.09
Total Liabilities& Equity               150).20       2.055.71      2,682.56      3,429.85      4,259.51      5,168.78      6,142.98      7,178.39      8,316.88
Current Ratio                                 12(1)         1(18         104           0.96          (.88          (.83         (179           1.77          0.74
CapitalAdequacyRaiso                        5.21%         6.55%         7.29%         7.72%          8.53%         9.61%        10.79%        11.95%        13.23%
Long-term Debt/Equity                        3.53          2.69          3.30           3.60          3.39          3.02          2.46          2.103         1.60
Loan PortfolicVAssts                        7.07%        12.78%        22.50%        32.16%        40.25%        44.29%         45.61%        46.34%        47.15%
RetumnonAswts                                             2.05%         2.14%         2.21%          2.41%         2.501%        2.53%         2.53%         2.65%
Retum on Equity                                          38.62%        36.88%        34.26%        33.40%         30.85%        27.90%        25.23%        24.02%
Net Interest Margin                                       5.48%         5.91%         6.12%         6.63%          6.84%         6.88%         6.87%         7.17%



- 84 -
Annex 7
Table 2
PCBC Real Estate Credit Department                                                           Page 2
Projected Financial Statemnents, 1993-2000
(Yuan million)
11. INCOME STATEMENT
(forttheyeanendedDecember31)                           i)3           122A                  19 n2f              122i                                   2 Q
Inteest income
- Mortgae loans                                         0.00        37.44         95.77       168.48        232.09       279.66        318.46        354.05
-Short-termi loans                                    128.42       143.61        160.32       177.18        194.90       214.39        235.83        259.41
-Other                                                 38.50        68.95         86.70       109.67        138.81        176.27       224.39        286.03
Other income                                             0.63         (I.(8)        0.(0         0.00         ().00         ().(X)        ().0)         0.0(
Total income                                      167.54        249.99       342.79        455.33       565.8(0       670.31       778.67        899.49
Inteest expenses
-Currentdeposits                                       38.57        49.73         59.78        71.62         85.82        1()2.83      123.22        147.67
- Term deposits                                        3(.9(        34.72         38.91        43.60         48.86         54.76        61.37         68.79
-Loans & bonds                                          (.00        25.40         57.15        85.09        1()8.59       123.83       136.53        127.42
69.47       109.86        155.84       20().32       243.26       281.41        321.12       343.88
Otherexpense                                             7.13         9.84         13.95         17.91        20.31         22.31        25.14         28.77
Totalexpenses                                      76.6(0       119.69       169.79        218.22       263.57        3113.72      346.25        372.65
Income beforenome Lax                                   90.94        130.30       173.(X)      237.11        302.23       366.59        432.42        526.84
Income tax                                              54.57        79.48        1()5.53      144.64        184.36       223.62        263.77        321.37
Net Income                                             36.38        50.82         67.47        92.47        117.87       142.97        168.64       205.47
HIt. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(for the years ended December 3 1)
3            19   1224                  1996         12             9            14           21
Net income                                              36.38        5(1.82        67.47        92.47        117.87        142.97       168.64        2)5.47
Add: depreciation                                        1.48         2.13          3.11         4.0)8         5.(6         6.()3         7.()1         7.98
baddebtpeovision                                    2.59          3.44         5.()5         6.17         5.81          5.17          5.3(         6.01
40.45        56.39         75.62       102.73        128.74       154.18        18(.95       219.46
Proceeds from issuance of bonds                          ().(KI       1()0          1.)          (.(X0         ())  ()(. .)                .(X)        ().00
Proceeds from IBRD loan disbur3ements                   1).(18      2(X0.00       2511.00      220.(#)       185.0(        120).tX)      ).0)           ().tX)
Repayment of mortgage loams                              0.00         ().61         1.40         14.24        34.97         59.99        82.73        1111.38
Netincreaseintenmdeposits                               34.16        36.42         40.82        45.76         51.30         57.51        64.48         72.29
Netincse incurrentrdeposits                            413.14       295.80        342.(X)      409.89        491.29       588.88        7()5.89       846.19
Chanpsinothercurrent assets&liabilityitems              30.39        38.19        (41.28)       52.34         37.73        (31.95)      (71.35)       (18.89)
Tont wurces of cash                                  518.14       627.41        668.56       844.96        929.0(3      948.60       1,(62.7(     1,220.44
lncreuAeinmorn&aeloam                                    ().(X)     266.00        415.10       518.01        466.21       372.97        335.67       335.67
Incae in wottingcapitai loanm                          108.16        168.97       135.87        149.46       164.4)        18().84      198.93       218.82
Net incre ein other long-etem loam                      99.76        79.58        103.46        134.49       174.84       227.3()       295.48       3S4.13
Prinaipal epayment on bonds                              0.0)         0.00          (1.01        0.00          0.00         ().1X)        1).1)        0.00
Principal repaymentonlBRDh kn                            ().X1)       ().00        0A(          0.(1)         ().tX       (RN)8         71.67        71.67
Capital invesanent                                      10.00         10.00        15.(18        15.00        15.0#)        5(8          15.0#)        15.00
Net in(de)crease incashAraerves                        318.22       1012.86        (0.87)       27.99        108.57       (52.49        145.94        195.14
Total applications of cash                           518.14       627.41        668.56       844.96        929.03       948.6t)     1.)(62.7(0    1,220.44



- 85 -
Annex 7
Table 3
ICBC: Projected Financial Statements, 1993-2000                                          Page 1
(Yuan mnillion)
1. BALANCE SHEET
(us of December 31)
Current Assets
Cash & reserves                        1,135.66     1,047.48       999.24      1,223.64     1,478.42     1,577.93      1,776.87     1.981.08     2.293.31
Working capital loans                  3.865.30     4,065.90     4,441.84      4762.06      5,060.34     5,317.17     5.603.56      5,904.58     6,268.73
OthercurrentLssets                      781.69        497.62       644.49       552.92       670.55        813.91       814.29       907.18       995.66
Current maturity of long-Lem loans      241.94        193.55       383.61       576.31       821.65        767.52      I.t91.(1l    1.382.93     1,678.19
6,(24.58     5.804.56     6,469.18     7,114.94     8,03t).95     8,476.53     9.285.72    1(),175.77    11,235.89
Long-term Loans (net of provisions
for doubtful accounts)
Individual morSage loans                  0.00          0.(X)        5.05        11.03         18.13        26.55        35.67        44.59        53.2S
HMC loans                                 0.00          0(00        46.51       136.95       294.40        514.67       782.01      1,003.08     1,209.28
Bmtnch'sotherlong-termtloans            961.66      1,332.61      1,516.41     1,709.76     1,932.45     2,851.20     3,286.80      3,861.00     4,455.00
961.66      1.332.61     1,567.97     1.Y57.74     2.244.98     3,392.42     4.104.48      4,908.67     5,717.56
Fixed assets (net of accum. depr.)         72.81        78.14        70.57        62.41        53.67         44.34        34.43        23.93         12.85
Total Assets                          7.059.06     7.215.30     8,107.71      9,035.09    10,329.60    11,913.29     13,424.64    15,108.37    16,966.29
Current Liabilises
Short-term deposits                    3.203.67     4,285.19     4,812.41      5.399.97     6,1059.45    6,799.72     7.489.73      8.249.91     9,t)87.45
Other curent liabilities               1,(052.31      684.47       511.46       353.38       406.95        497.(6       559 34       643.04        734.63
CurrentmaturityofLTliabilities          757.16          0.00        34.06        60.00         ((1.0         0.00        18.0(        18.00         18.00
Longtnemndeposuts                       1.732.65     1,818.63     2,127.68      2,444.63     2,809.02     3,225.83     3.611.87     4,041.48      4,522.43
Bonds payable - Real Estate Department     0.00          0.00         0.00         (1.00        0.00         (1(X)        ((.11         0.00        o00
-Other activities            34.06        34.06        60.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         ((.00         0.0         0.00
IBRDloams                                  0.00          0.00        32.25        75.25       139.75        193.50       218.50       234.00       216.00
6,779.85     6,822.35     7,577.86     8,333.23     9,415.18     10,716.11    11,897.44     13,186.43    14,578.51
Equity
Capital                                 234.24        234.24       234.24       234.24       234.24        234.24       234.24       234.24        234.24
Retaunedearninps                         44.96        158.70       295.61       467.62       680.18        962.94      1,292.95     1,687.701    2.153.54
279.21       392.95       529.85       701.86       914.42      1,197.18      1,527.19     1,921.94     2,387.78
TotalLLabilities&Equaty               7,059.06     7,215.30     8,107.71      9,1)35.09   10,329.60    11,913.29     13.424.64    15.108.37    16,966.29
Current Ratio                               1.20         1.17         1.21         1.22          1.24         1.16         1.15         1.14          1.14
CapitalAdequacyRatio                      4.71%         6.37%        7.45%        8.98%        1(0.33%      11.58%       13.11%       14.64%        16.27%
Long-term Debt/Equity                      6.33          4.71         4.19         3.59         3.22          2.86         2.51         2.22          1.98
Loan Portfolio/Total Asets               13.62%        18.47%       19.34%       20.56%       21.73%        28.48%       3(1.57%      32.49%        33.70%
ReturnonAsseut                                          1.59%        1.79%        2.01%        2.20%         2.54%        2.60%        2.77%        2.90%
Retum on Equity                                        33.84%       29.67%       27.93%       26.30%        26.78%       24.23%       22.89%        21.62%
Net Interest Marin- Branch                              4.34%        4.87%        5.34%        5.75%         6.62%        6.68%        7.03%         7.31%
Net Interest Margin - RECD                              0.00%        0.04%        0.06%        (1.19%        ().37%       0.58%        0.78%         0.93%



- 86 -
Annex 7
ICBC: Projected Financial Statenients, 1993-2000                                         Table 3
(Yuan nillhon)                                                            Page 2
1.a INCOME STATEMENT: Bratch as a whole
(for the years ended December 31)                                                i4 12    2         lJf    1                     2S                  2=
Interest Income
- mortgage loans                                         0.00         7.35         21.44        45.97         80.56        123.09       164.29       201.47
other long-term loans                                 243.22       315.06        394.51       494.25        667.55       777.44        935.97      1,105.91
- short-t.em loans                                     449.41       467.26        505.48       539.44        569.91       599.73        631.98       668.50
-others                                                 72.87        96.29        105.53       115.03        137.19        153.34       167.19        186.50
Tots] interest income                                 765.51       885.95       1,026.96     1,194.69      1.455.20     1.653.6)      1,899.43     2,162.39
Interes Expenses
- Short-tecm deposits                                  223.00       270.81        303.68       340.46        381.70       423.83        466.55        513.58
-Long-term  deposits                                   185.30       205.91        238.57       274.12        314.88       356.77        399.33        446.84
- Loans & bonds                                          3.41         14.31        19.26        23.27         22.25        27.20         31.015        28.98
*Others                                                 44.21        22.11          7.37         0.00          ((.(x)       Ri.x)        ().(lt)        0.0')
Total interestexpenses                                455.91       513.14        568.88       637.85        718.83       8(17.8(1      896.93       989.40
Otherexpenss                                             56.84        68.57         75.85        84.48        108.01        112.42       125.27        137.79
Totalexpenses                                          512.75       581.72        644.73       722.33        826.85       92().23      1,022.201    1,127.19
Income befo Mncome tax                                  252.75       304.24        382.24       472.35        628.36       733.37        877.22      1.035.19
Income las                                              139.02        167.33       210.23       259.79        345.60       4t)3.35       482.47        569.36
Net income                                              113.74        136.91       172.01       212.56        282.76       330.()2       394.75        465.84
lI.b. Real Estate Dept's Housini Finance Operation Analys
Interest income                                           0.00         7.90         23.09        48.92         84.57        128.63       172.38        214.9(l
Interest expenwses direct                                 0(x)         5.86         13.39        21.75         28.94        34.96         39.92         38.97
- indirect n                               0.00         (.07)         4.35          8.42         14.00        211.52        21.44        27.49
Odherexpenxss- direct                                     0.00         0.68          1.42         2.61          3.95          5.27         5.50          6.00
- indirect *                                 0.35          0.42         11.58         0.63         0.73          (.81         0.89          0.98
Total expenses                                           0.35          5.89        19.74        33.40         47.62        61.56         67.74         73.43
Incomebeforeincome tx                                    (0.35)        2.00          3.35         15.51        36.94        67.07        104.64        141.47
Income tax                                                0.00          1.1(        1.84         8.53         20.32        36.89         57.55        77.81
Net income                                               (0.35)        0.90          1.51         6.98         16.62        3t).18        47.09         63.66
Indirect: expenses charged on branch resources used by Real Estate Credit Department
111. Statment of Cash Flows
(for the years ended December 31)
Sou   f ash
Net income                                              113.74        136.91       172.01       212.56        282.76       33(0.t)2      394.75        465.84
Add: depreciatton                                         7.68         12.57        13.16         13.74        14.33         14.91        15.5()        16.t)8
Baddebtprovision                                     1.95         3.17          4.07         5.42         13.56         7.19          8.12         8.17
123.37       152.64        189.24       231.72       31().65       352.12       418.37        490.1(9
Proceeds from issuance of bonds                           0.00        60.(X)         0.00         0.0           0.00)         t.X)         ((.1X)        ((.00
Proceedsfrom IBRD loondisburwments                        0.00        32.25         43.00        64.50         53.75        43.0)         33.50          0.0()
Repayment of mortgap  loans                               0.00         0.06          0.13         2.84          8.19         17.62        46.14        78.06
Rcpayment of other long-term loans                     (324.51)     (376.45)      (386.45)     (466.45)      (866.45)     (750.tX))     (84(1.00)    (88000)
Net incres in shon-rterm deposits                     1,081.52       527.22        587.56       659.48        740.27       690.t)1       7611.18      837.54
Net increa  in long-tem deposits                         85.99       309.05        316.95       364.39        416.81       386.0)4       429.61       4#().95
Total sources of cash                                 966.36       704.76        75043        856.49        663.21       738.8(0       847.80      1.006.65
Increase in mortgage loans                                0.0O        52.20        100.22        174.39       248.62       310.38        31(0.38      3111.38
Increawein working cpital loans                         200.61       375.93        320.23       298.27        256.83       286.39        301.t)1      364.15
Principal tepaynmetonbonds&otherLTliability             757.16         0.00         34.06        60.0')        t).tX)        (I.I)         ((.0x)
Principl repayment on IBRD loa                            0.00         0.0            0           0.00         0((.10        0.0()        18.08)        18.00
Capital invesnes                                         13.00         5.00          5.00          5.00         5.(1)        500           5.(X)         5.00
Changes inoAhercurrentasseu & lIbiaity items             83.77       319.88         66.52        64.04         53.26       (61.91)         9.20         (3.10)
Incrase incash& teserves                                (88.18)      (48.24)       224.40       254.78         99.51        198.93       204.22       312.22
Toutl applications of cash                            966.36       704.76        750.43       856.49        663.21       738.80        #47.80      1,006.65



- 87 -                                 ANNEX 8
PROPERTY RIGHTS AND OTHER LEGAL FRAMEWORK
1.       The project will support the divestiture by state enterprises of their housing stock and
associated responsibilities through the creation of housing management companies (HMCs) to which
enterprises would contribute their housing stock in exchange for shares in the HMC. The loan and
credit will finance, through the provision of mortgage loans by participating local banks, the
construction or acquisition by the HMCs of newly constructed residential buildings for rental
purposes. Initially, HMCs will rent to the shareholders' employees; later on, they will rent or sell to
the general public. The loan and credit will also help finance mortgage loans to individuals for the
purchase of apartment units. The following summarizes the legal framework governing the following
aspects of the Project: a) structure of HMCs; b) ownership, transfer and mortgage of real property
rights; c) mortgage financing; d) landlord-tenant relations; and e) relations among co-owners of
residential buildings.
A. HMCs
2.       The HMCs have been established as joint stock companies (JSC) pursuant to the State
Council "Opinion on the Norms for JSCs," and the "Companies Law" of 1994 that formalized the
former. Their charters outline the responsibilities of directors and management, as well as
shareholder representation on the board and elections to be followed. Under the oversight of boards
elected at general stockholders meetings, management will be entrusted with the responsibility to rent
and sell housing; while maintaining and managing the stock; and acquiring, and disposing of,
properties. The Boards will approve budgets and associated operating plans, key management
personnel, and the level of annual dividends. Annex 3 provides further details of HMC
organizational structure.
B. REAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
Land-use Rights
3.       There is a national legislative framework, supplemented by local regulations, which allows
for the ownership and transfer of certain rights in residential property. While individuals and firms
are precluded under this framework from owning land, they may obtain an assignable right to use
land (leasehold) for residential purposes for a fixed period of up to 70 years. The leasehold is
granted by the Land Administration Bureau to the leaseholder pursuant to a grant contract between the
two parties, for a specified fee and duration. The leasehold may be transferred, leased or mortgaged,
by contract between the leaseholder and the beneficiary. Individual provinces and localities are
required to issue regulations to implement this leasehold system; all of the provinces and localities
involved in this Project have issued such regulations.
Ownership of buildings
4.       Individuals and firms may own residential buildings or units within these buildings; these
ownership rights may be transferred or mortgaged by contract. Moreover, when the leasehold of the
land on which a building is located is transferred, the ownership rights of the building are



-88 -                                  ANNEX 8
simultaneously transferred to the new leaseholder. Similarly, both the leasehold and the building
must be mortgaged together.
Conversion of Allocated Land to Leasehold
5.       Since the land on which the housing stock of most state enterprises is located was allocated
by the state to the enterprise prior to the introduction of the transferable leasehold system, the national
law also provides for the conversion of allocated land use rights to leasehold rights. Thus, it is
possible for enterprises to obtain leaseholds on their property and to transfer them to the HMCs. If
the property is simply allocated to an HMC, it is also possible for the HMC to convert its allocated
rights in the property into leasehold rights and then to mortgage the property in order to obtain
financing. In order to obtain a leasehold, the enterprise or HMC must enter into a contract with the
Land Administration Department, as described in para 3 above.'
Property Rights of Owners of Units within Residential Buildings
6.       The nature of the property rights held by owners of units in residential buildings is not
clearly described in the laws. However, it would appear that owners of the units have an individual
ownership interest in the unit (with some restrictions on resale rights, as noted below) and an
undivided interest in the common elements of the building (see below), as well as in the leasehold.
REGISTRATION
7.       In order to be valid, the property rights in land and buildings must be registered; rights in
land must be registered with the Land Administration Bureau; while rights in buildings must be
registered with the Real Estate Management Administration2. Each city has issued procedural rules
for registration of rights in the type of property under its jurisdiction. Initial registration of a
leasehold involves an investigation by the Land Administration Bureau of the land use right,
publication of the findings, opportunity to contest the findings, and final decision. Subsequent
recording of assignments or mortgages of the leasehold and building rights involve submission of the
relevant documents evidencing the change in leasehold rights. The property records are open to the
public. The fact that two separate administrations have jurisdiction over the registration of real
property rights could be an impediment to efficient and effective registration, even though in practice
the different records are cross-referenced.
8.       Under the project, the various property title certificates covering land and structure will be
unified or cross-referenced, and administered, where possible, by one administrative unit.
Furthermore, certificates will be modified to provide more space for recording key items, including
detailed mortgage obligations. On the basis of reference materials discussed during project
preparation, the participating municipalities have prepared and adopted improved mortgage
agreements and registration procedures, and regulations elaborating on the definition of property and
I    For acquisition of rental housing, the HMC would normally secure its mortgage loan with a
mortgage on an existing piece of property which provides a greater revenue base than the property to
be acquired through the loan. Thus, the importance of ensuring that the existing housing is
mortgageable.
2    In some jurisdictions, including Beijing, these formalities are handled by the Real Estate
Administration alone.



- 89 -                                 ANNEX 8
the scope of mortgage rights and interest; the mortgagor's obligations; defaults and remedy; and
modification of title certificates to include mortgage and appraisal value, interest rates, and references
to the mortgage agreement.
C. MORTGAGE FINANCING
What is mortgageable by whom and how is a mortgage created?
9.       There is no comprehensive national mortgage financing law, although a draft law is under
preparation and is expected to be enacted by 1995. Thus, one has to look to various national and
local sources of law to find a legal basis for mortgage financing. As indicated above, under the
national law regarding leaseholds, both individuals and enterprises may mortgage their property
rights. The leasehold of a piece of land, together with the structures on the land, may be mortgaged
by contract between the holder of the leasehold and the mortgagee. In order to be valid, the
mortgage must be registered both with the Land Administration Bureau (for the leasehold) and the
Real Estate Management Administration Bureau (for the building), except in the case of cities where
such function are unified under the Real Estate Administration Bureau.
What are a mortgagee's rights in the event of default by the mortgagor?
10.      The national law on leaseholds provides that if the mortgagor fails to pay its debts to the
mortgagee, the latter may "dispose of the property in accordance with the laws and regulations of the
state and the provisions of the mortgage contract" and receives a preferential right to receive
compensation from the income generated from the disposition of the mortgaged property. However,
no national law describes how to dispose of the property in such case. The Civil Law generally
recognizes the right of a property owner to pledge the property in order to secure a debt; failure by
the debtor to discharge his liabilities gives the creditor the right to convert the property into money or
to obtain repayment on a priority basis from the proceeds of sale of the property. The Supreme
Court has also issued an opinion on this Law to the effect that the pledgee has priority over other
creditors of the debtor, and that priorities among competing claims on the pledged property are to be
decided in accordance with the sequence in which the pledges were given (i.e., presumably the order
of registration in the case of mortgages of real property).
How may the mortgagee enforce its rights?
11.      How the right of the creditor to dispose of the pledged property may be exercised is not
spelled out in the Civil Law. Under the Civil Procedure Law, if an obligor fails to perform its
obligations pursuant to a document that has been lawfully rendered enforceable by a notary public, the
obligee may apply to the court for an order of execution; the court may sell off property in order to
recover the debt. However, the national law provides no guidance on the procedures for foreclosure
and disposal of the property, and does not provide for the possibility of statutory foreclosure by
execution of a power of sale contained in the mortgage. The Civil Procedure Law prohibits the court
from depriving the person subject to execution and his dependents of daily necessities; thus, a court
might invoke this prohibition if the mortgagee was seeking to foreclose on the home of the defaulting
debtor. The lack of foreclosure procedures, exacerbated by the courts' reported delays in rendering
decisions and reluctance to issue orders which would have the effect of rendering people homeless,
raises the issue of the effectiveness of the current laws to protect lenders' interests as mortgagees of
residential property. Partly in view of this concern, specification of foreclosure and eviction



- 90 -                                    ANNEX 8
procedures have been improved during project preparation as reviewed below. Further, agreements
have been reached that project municipalities would maintain a small number of old housing, slated
for eventual demolition or redevelopment, for the purpose of providing temporary housing for those
who are evicted.
Local Regulations
12.      Each of the Project cities have prepared regulations elaborating on mortgage registration
and foreclosure procedures [details to be completed when regulations have been reviewed]3. These
regulations have been prepared as administrative rules, rather than as legislative regulations to be
submitted to the local People's Congresses for enactment. This means that the courts could not rely
on them as a statutory basis for rendering a decision. In the absence of a national or provincial
legislative framework governing a particular issue, however, a court may rely on the administrative
rules of a given city, as long as they are not incompatible with any other legislation, although it will
not cite the rule as the basis for its decision.
13.      Given the dearth of legislation on the subject, banks involved in the Project plan to rely as
much as possible on contractual provisions (e.g., acceleration of debt leading to foreclosure pursuant
to a power of sale, assignment of rents in the case of a mortgage on rental property) to protect their
interests in the mortgaged property. Moreover, all Project cities have indicated that they will provide
temporary housing to all persons who lose their housing through foreclosure proceedings.
D. LANDLORD - TENANT RELATIONS
14.      There is no national law governing relations between state enterprises, as landlords, and
their tenants4. Relations between the HMCs and their tenants are therefore largely governed at the
national level by general principles of contract law. The Civil Law generally recognizes the right of
individuals and enterprises to enter into contractual agreements; failure of one party to fulfill its
contractual obligations gives the other party the right to insist on fulfillment of these obligations or to
take remedial measures and claim compensation for its losses. A Supreme Court opinion on
implementation of the Civil Law has several points on landlord/tenant relations: while it does not
address the problem of failure to comply with the terms of a lease, it provides that if there is no lease
term, the landlord may reclaim the rented housing when needed for its own use; it also provides for
the possibility of eviction if the tenant has a place to which he can move.
3 Foreclosure procedures will parallel eviction procedures in the rental market. Under the
project, arbitration and litigation will be the ways to resolve disputes. Professional arbitration
committees specialized in the settlement of housing disputes already exist in each city. In addition,
necessary judicial or statutory foreclosure procedures have been agreed upon. The applicable
principles are to be found in local regulations; as needed, enabling provisions and rules have been
issued by relevant departments and will be cited in related contracts and agreements.
4     The State Council issued regulations in 1983, relating to rental of private housing in urban
areas, and Project cities (or the provinces in which they are located) have copied these regulations and
rendered them applicable both to public and private housing. These regulations require landlords and
tenants to enter into rental agreements, impose on the landlord the obligation to repair the housing,
and give the landlord the right to terminate the rental agreement if the tenant sublets without the
landlord's consent, conducts illegal activities on the premises, or fails to pay rent for 6 (not
necessarily consecutive) months.



- 91-                                   ANNEX 8
15.      Local regulations govern landlord-tenant relations in each Project city; additional
regulations for this Project have been prepared, including model lease agreements. While they vary
from city to city, they require that the rights and obligations of the landlord (whether a public or a
private enterprise) and tenant be spelled out in a written lease agreement; the rental amount appear to
be a matter for the parties to negotiate. The landlord is responsible for repair and maintenance of the
rental housing. The lease may be terminated for non-payment of rent over a period of time,
subletting without landlord consent, conduct of illegal activities on the premises, and violation of the
other obligations of the tenant under the lease agreement.
Eviction
16.      Existing local regulations all provide that if the lease is terminated and the tenant refuses to
leave the premises, the landlord may seek a court order of eviction. [Details to be added on
procedures and specific remedies once new regulations are received and reviewed. There are no
streamlined, summary judicial procedures for eviction which would provide the landlord with a
speedy method for enforcing its rights.] Cases in which residents are evicted from their housing are
rare. As with eviction under mortgage foreclosure procedures, the absence of specific, speedy,
judicial procedures for eviction, and the past unwillingness of courts to issue decisions which would
result in homelessness imply that eviction might not be an efficient or effective means for HMCs to
limit their losses in the event their tenants fail to pay their rent or damaged the premises. It is likely
that HMCs will rely instead on their shareholders making automatic payroll deductions to cover the
rental payments owned by the shareholders' employees to the HMCs. As noted above, the Project
cities intend to provide temporary housing for people evicted from their homes.5
E. RELATIONS AMONG CO-OWNERS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
17.      The issue of how to manage residential buildings in which the units are owned by different
entities would arise if some of the buildings acquired by the HMCs are owned in part by enterprises
which do not transfer their interests in the building to the HMC and, later on, if the HMCs sell off
individual units to different owners. The management of residential buildings is governed by national
regulations, some which apply only to housing owned by enterprises and others which apply only to
public housing sold to individuals under the housing reform. The local Real Estate Management
Administrations Bureau are given supervisory authority over both types of housing and their
management. The national regulations are supplemented by local regulations. These regulations
define common elements of the building (e.g., structural elements of the building, plumbing, common
stairways, etc.) and specify the respective responsibilities of the owners with respect to these
facilities. They do not, however, provide a detailed framework for allocation of building management
decision making authority to a condominium-type association. This deficiency was addressed under
the project by the preparation of local regulations for cities and model contracts for HMCs.
5     Since the plan is for HMCs to charge cost-recovery rents to their tenants, another issue
which may arise when the shareholding enterprises initially transfer their housing stock to the HMCs,
is if the existing tenants have a lease which would protect them from rental increases, or if they may
have other protected housing benefits as employees which would make it legally difficult for the
HMC to increase the rent on their housing. The former possibility is minor, since few, if any,
employees have a lease agreement. On the latter issue, any protected benefits would be terminated
once the housing was transferred to the HMC; moreover, the enterprises would increase their
employees' wages to cover the average rental increase.



-92 -                                 ANNEX 8
Costs of, and Responsibility for, Repair of Common Areas
18.     Generally, the costs of repair of common areas are borne by the owners in the same
proportion which the space which they own individually bears to the overall space of the building.
The regulations allow for establishment of a housing management committee and for the creation of a
maintenance and repair funds, financed in some cases by a one-time fee charged to each owner at the
time of purchase of the housing, and in other cases by periodic assessments by the management
committee. The regulations are silent on the issues of (a) what recourse may be had in the event of a
failure by an owner to contribute to the costs of repair; and more generally, (b) whether such a
committee or other association of owners may make decisions which would be binding on all owners.
19.      Responsibility for repair and maintenance varies, depending on the regulation. The
national regulations governing enterprise-owned housing provide that the owners may establish a
housing management organization to assume this responsibility or may entrust the responsibility to a
management company, but do not specify the procedures for establishing such an organization or for
agreeing on a management company.
20.      The national regulations governing public housing sold to individuals assign this
responsibility to the seller or the management company to which this responsibility is entrusted by the
purchaser at the time of sale (presumably, the selling enterprise requires, in the sale contract, that all
purchasers to agree to assigning this responsibility to the selling enterprise or a designated
management company selected by the seller). The funds for repair and maintenance are required to
be deposited in a special account and the management company is required to submit periodic reports
to the owners on the use of funds.
Sales of Units
21. While the national regulations governing enterprise-owned housing do not deal with sales of
units within the building, those governing public housing sold to individuals specify that an individual
apartment owner may not sell his unit without the written consent of the other owners who have a
preemptive right to purchase the unit.



- 93 -                                ANNEX 9
SOCIAL SECURITY POLICY REFORM FRAMEWORK AND SCHEDULE
The municipal governments of the four project cities (Beijing, Yantai, Ningbo, and Chengdu)
have agreed to a framework of reform to deal with the problems in the existing social security
system. The agreed social security reform actions are intended to further enterprise reform and to
encourage labor mobility while assuring that basic social protection needs are met efficiently. The
key elements of the reform framework are summarized below and the schedule of their
implementation in Table 1:
A. PENSIONS
Pooling. Although there already is pooling of pension contributions across enterprises, the
system is still incomplete. Pools are separated by types of enterprise and workers, and the
contribution rate is not uniform across enterprises. The municipalities have agreed to move to a
unified pooling system for all urban enterprise workers with uniform contribution rates for all
enterprise and worker categories.
Centralized Management. There is agreement that the management tasks for pensions be
moved from enterprises to a centralized municipal agency. The tasks to be centralized include
compiling individual wage records on workers in the central system; collecting contributions from
enterprises; and calculating and making pension payments to retirees.
Worker Contributions. To share the cost of the system, it has been agreed that all workers
will contribute a uniform portion of wages into the pension system in addition to enterprise
contributions.
Benefit Formula Reforms. It has been agreed to establish and revise benefit formulae
consistent with the Ministry of Labor guidelines calling for a three-tier system, consisting of: basic
social safety net; enterprise-specific pension; and individual retirement savings.
Prefunding. The municipalities have agreed to develop cost projection models, define the
optimal level of prefunding, and will increase prefunding to reach an appropriate level.
B. UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
Coverage and Eligibility. The municipalities have agreed to expand coverage to all urban
enterprise workers and to extend eligibility for claims to all forms of non-voluntary terminations.
Actuarial analyses will be made to evaluate the cost of these expansions and to set appropriate
contribution rates.
Labor Market Services. A portion of unemployment insurance contributions may be used to
finance labor market services. The municipalities will strengthen job referral services, training, and
help for workers who want to establish their own businesses. These services are now provided largely



- 94 -                                  ANNEX 9
to new entrants, but efforts will be made to expand these services to workers of all ages who are
dismissed from jobs.
C. HEALTH INSURANCE
Pooling. Currently, enterprises generally pay for the entire costs of health care of their own
workers. The municipalities have agreed to pooling health insurance across enterprises in steps: first,
to cover major illness of workers of all enterprises; later, to provide comprehensive health care
benefits.
Centralized Management. The municipalities have agreed to transfer management
responsibilities from enterprises to a municipal agency.
Control of Health Care Costs. The municipalities have agreed to study ways of controlling
costs including demand-side measures, supply-side measures, quality assurance, and controls over the
use of expensive technology.
D. WORK INJURY INSURANCE
It is agreed that contributions for work injury benefits be pooled across enterprises and that
management responsibilities be transferred from enterprises to a municipal agency. This protection
will be extended to workers in all types of enterprises.
E. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
It is agreed that the municipalities will carry out studies, modify organizational structure of
municipal departments and agencies responsible for social security, train their staff, and computerize
their operations in order to enable them to adequately carry out social security management functions
now carried out by enterprises.
Agreed target dates for major reform actions are listed in the Table below. Technical assistance
programs to support studies to help improve benefit-contribution formulae and other policy elements,
help develop management capacity, and help train staff in operation of new policies are described in
Annex 10.



- 95 -                               ANNEX 9
Table 1 AGREED TARGET DATES FOR COMPLETING INDICATED REFORM
Beijing   Chengdu   Ningbo    Yantai
1. PENSIONS
Comprehensive Pooling 1/           1998     1993*      1994      1994
Centralized Management 2/          1997     1996       1997      1996
Worker Contributions               1992     1992       1993      1992
Benefit Revision                   1994     1993       1994      1994
2.UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
Comprehensive Coverage 3/          1994     1994       1994      1995
3. HEALTH INSURANCE
Pooling for Major Medical          1996     1993**     1993**   1995**
Cost Control and initial steps for  1995    1993       1995      1993
centralized management 4/
Notes to Table 1:
1/  This implies that all types of enterprises in the urban sector would be pooling resources and
liabilities for retirement pensions. Enterprises would be contributing to the pension pool at one
unified rate (usually set as a percentage of total payroll).
2/  To shift the work of administering pension benefits out of enterprises and into municipal social
insurance agencies (SIAs). Although the collection of contributions and calculation of benefits would
be done by the SIAs, actual payment of benefits would be in many cases through local banks.
3/  Unemployment insurance would be extended to all workers in urban enterprises excepting the
self-employed. Eligibility for benefit claims would be extended to all non-voluntary terminations.
4/  Since there is no national policy framework for health insurance reform yet, the municipalities
have decided to implement transitional measures aimed primarily to control costs. The municipal
health bureaus are taking some initial steps to set up an administration system for health insurance.
*   Temporary workers will be covered in 2000, but all others in 1993.
** Pooling within districts or counties, not for the whole city.



- 96 -                               ANNEX 10
SOCIAL SECURITY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
To assist the municipalities and the central authorities in implementing the social security
systems reform outlined in Annex 9, the project will support studies, consultancy, training, and
computerization, and procurement of training and other equipment. These technical assistance (TA)
activities will proceed in three phases, each for about 1-1.5 year's duration. This Annex describes
these TA activities, organized in a series of modules, each representing a distinct topical area. Unless
specifically noted, the TA will be for municipal programs. For many issue areas, TA is also
provided for central authorities. Though the focuses and levels of detail will be different, the issues
and expertise required will be similar for both municipal and central TA.
A. RETIREMENT PENSIONS
Module 1.    Computerized Pension Operations System
OBJEcTIVE: To develop an efficient system for collecting contributions and paying benefits by
the social insurance agency (SIA) while minimizing the administrative burden on enterprises.
SCOPE: To help identify information architecture, hardware, software, operating procedures,
organizational requirements, and an implementation strategy and schedule for a computerized pension
system to deal with the following three areas:
Collection of Contributions from Enterprises
a.  Calculating contribution amounts. Wage base for contributions. Timing.
b.  Identification and design of data reporting requirements from enterprises to SIA; data
forms; computer data entry;
c.  Mechanism for enterprise payment of contribution to SIA. Role of banks.
d.  Enforcement procedures. Monitoring using reported data and other means. Incentives for
enterprises.
e.  Office systems and staffing requirements of the social insurance agency (SIA) to carry out
above activities.
f.  Economies in collection of contributions. Possibility of combining contribution collections
across programs: pensions, health, unemployment insurance, etc.
Record System for Individual Workers
a.  Identification system to keep track of each individual.
b.  Kinds of data needed to calculate pensions and evaluate system performance. Individual
wage and contributions data and their timing. Other data on individual characteristics.
c.  Data reporting forms for enterprises and computer data entry by SIA. Staffing needs of
SIA.
d.  Computer system for storing data and retrieving in network. Security of data. Backup
mechanisms.
e.  Comparability of data systems across cities.



- 97 -                                 ANNEX 10
Pension Calculation and Payment
a.  Refinements in the benefit formula. Age at which pension calculated, and number of years
of data used in calculation. Treatment of spouse and children. Adjustment for inflation.
b. Computer programming of benefit formula. Access to individual records through the
computer network.
c.  Payment mechanisms. Use of banks or other agencies for making payments. Wire
transfers of funds. Individual identification and security.
Schedule. Collection responsibilities of the SIA will increase substantially under the reforms
and will be carried out most effectively after SIA operations are computerized. To develop the
computer system most effectively, it is advisable that computer systems be established in one or two
district offices in the first phase. These offices can then serve as prototypes in extending the system
to other offices later. During Phase 1, experts will evaluate the current system and will recommend
ways to organize procedures and design office systems for prototype offices. In Phases II and III, the
prototype systems can be transferred to other district offices.
Expertise: Experts in social security operations management and computerization will be
involved most heavily; experts in information systems and pension policy will be involved in a less
extent. Foreign experts will be heavily involved in Phase I but involvement of domestic experts will
increase over time, responsible for most tasks in Phase III.
Module 2.    Pension Costs and Finance
Objective: To build computer projection models of long-run pension costs, use the projections
to help revise benefit and contribution formulae and the extent of prefunding. To suggest and
evaluate different investment alternatives.
Scope:
a.  Data Collection: Identification of existing sources of demographic and economic data,
drawing upon data from the individual records as they begin to accumulate in the SIA
register system, and additional data collection requirements if essential. Design of data
collection and updating procedures.
b. Building the model: Identifying a well-established projection model and modifying it so
that it can be run with data accessible to the city on an on-going basis. Estimating the
statistical relationships and combining them in model. It needs to be evaluated of whether
microsimulation is worthwhile. The collection of individual records will eventually permit
the use of microsimulation techniques to provide more refined estimates of cost projections.
It is probably more suitable in larger cities and those with the most severe aging problems.
c.  Sensitivity testing. Changing the assumptions of the model to see the consequences for
projections of future costs.
d. Using the model in making projections to suggest implications of various economic and
demographic development trends as well as benefit-contribution formulae. Schedule for
revising and rerunning projection model.
e.  Setting the employer and worker contribution rates: Using projection results to make
decisions concerning contribution rates and prefunding.
f.   Evaluating investment strategies. Evaluating current arrangements for any surplus funds,
risk and return implications of current and alternative strategies. Recommending optimal
strategies and institutional arrangements.



- 98 -                                ANNEX 10
g. (For central authorities) Developing research and monitoring programs to help formulate
national pension policy.
Schedule: During phase 1, model building and calibration would be the main task. Actual
simulations, examination of policy implications, and evaluation of investment arrangements will be
carried out mostly in Phase 11. More data will become available from the individual records over
time. Foreign consultant will spend a reduced amount of time in later phases, giving advice on
revisions in the model.
Expertise Required: Economists and actuarial specialists, familiar with building computer
models of demographic and economic trends; and in investment.
Module 3.    Program and Evaluation
Objective: To help SIAs establish pension management systems, evaluate the management of
the program and its social outcomes in order to identify improvements, and establish a system of
regular evaluation and quality control.
Scope:
a.   Services. Heiping to determine types and levels of services for retirees, by provision of
international examples and to examine implications.
b. Organization. Helping to design organizational structure, staffing, and procedures for
provision of services, premium collection, analysis.
C.  Performance standards. Establish performance standards for each management task.
Develop mechanism to measure actual performance, compare to standard, and assure that
standards will be met.
d.  Reporting. Develop reports for program participants on performance of program.
e.   Social indicators. Develop statistical measures of the adequacy of the program and system
to collect these statistics. Develop research to assess adequacy of program.
f.  (For central authorities) Designing a system for central monitoring of local social security
systems performance and impacts, by identifying summary indicators, reporting
requirements, and central evaluation mechanism. This monitoring system would concern
not only pension but also unemployment and health insurance systems.
Schedule and Expertise: Experts in pension system operations: to help develop organizational
plan, performance standards and reporting system during Phase l; to help organization establishment
and evaluations in a later Phase. A policy expert to help develop social indicators and a research
program in Phase 11.
Module 4. Research leading to the Drafting of the Social Security Law
Objective: To help draft a new social security law.
Scope: Current issues of social security in China and international practices and social security
laws will be reviewed, particularly concerning:
-   The levels, structure, and payment levels, and eligibility conditions for the various forms of
social insurance.
-   The rights and responsibilities of the state, enterprises, and workers in social insurance.



- 99-                                ANNEX 10
-   The management, supervision, and monitoring mechanism of social insurance funds.
-   The management system for the social insurance programs.
Schedule: Collection and review of materials, and study tours in Phase I. Review of studies
produced during Phase I under different modules, and synthesis and drafting of the law in Phase II.
Expertise: Policy experts working on other modules plus domestic and foreign legal specialists.
B. UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE AND EMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE
Consistent with the overall objective of the project, to reduce the welfare burden on enterprises
and to help enterprise restructuring, the project would provide TA to help strengthen municipal
programs of employment assistance needed for employment system transition, rather than supporting
enterprise-based programs for their own redundant workers.
Module 1.    Analysis of Unemployment Insurance Coverage and Costs
Objective: To help determine the features of unemployment insurance by projecting the cost
implications of increasing coverage and greater job mobility.
Scope:
a.  Developing a model to project unemployment insurance costs, accounting for labor market
behaviour and unemployment insurance features.
b.  Developing several probable scenarios of labor market evolution.
C.  Projecting unemployment and insurance costs under varying assumptions of economic
development, unemployment insurance coverage and features.
d.  Designing a mechanism for adjusting coverage, features, and contribution rate based on the
projection of unemployment insurance costs.
e.  (for central authorities) Assistance to develop guidelines for implementation of current
programs and to develop proposals for further reform.
f.  (For central authorities) Assistance to formulate guidelines for implementation of current
policies and proposal for future expansion and modification.
Schedule: Phase I: Development of the projection model; and preliminary projections of costs
based on existing data and a limited set of assumptions. Phase II: a more extensive analysis of the
factors contributing to costs, after examining the behavioral impacts of the unemployment insurance
system.
Required Expertise: Labor economists experienced with unemployment and cost projections.
Module 2. Computerization of Unemployment Insurance and Employment Assistance Systems
Objective: To help design a computerization program of the unemployment insurance and job
placement services in order to strengthen their management and coordination, and to help implement
the program.
Scope:
a.  Design of computerized record keeping system for: recording enterprise contributions;
individual records to keep track of necessary data on job applicants from employment
record, benefit payments, and other services; and job listing.



-100-                                 ANNEX 10
b. Design of a system for profiling available jobs and job applicants, and matching them;
c.  Planning and helping the implementation of the computerization program.
Schedule: The initial step would be computerization of unemployment insurance records. This
could begin on a prototype basis in just one office, and expand to other offices after the first system is
ready. Linking unemployment insurance records to those of other services would take longer.
Expertise: A computer expert familiar with unemployment insurance programs, assisted with
unemployment operations expert.
Module 3.    Employment Assistance, Training and Counselling Services
Objective: To help expansion and improvement of the labor exchange system, job training, and
business development services for the unemployed.
Scope: To identify detailed requirements for the tasks listed below, to evaluate current
assistance programs and help design operational procedures and to help plan the necessary
organizational development for expanded services:
a.  Evaluation of jobs, business opportunities, skill requirements, applicant profiles.
b. Training Curriculum (including business management) and facilities requirements.
C.  Developing operational guidelines for job matching.
d. Job search advice and assistance; counseling; assistance to access sources of start-up capital
and other business necessities.
Schedule: This module could start in either Phase I or Phase II. Computerization would take
time depending on the situation of the city, and technical assistance on other employment services
would take a few days.
Expertise: Experts on employment services, business development, and on training.
C. WORK INJURY INSURANCE
Objective: To help provide examples of work injury insurance systems in other countries,
evaluate the existing program and plans for its reform, and recommend improved benefit
administration.
Scope: Provide examples of work injury insurance systems in other countries, evaluate the
existing program and plans for its reform, and recommend improvements in the following areas:
a.  Standards for determining disability
b. Management of the disability evaluation process
c.  Benefit structures and appropriateness for types of disability
d. Relation to other disability programs
e.  Appeals procedures
f.   Resource pooling and financial controls
g. (For central authorities) Regulations concerning the above.
Schedule: Since planning for work injury insurance is still in an early phase in most cities, this
module will be offered in Phase II.



- 101 -                               ANNEX 10
D. HEALTH INSURANCE
All of the health insurance TA modules described below concern both the central and municipal
level reform efforts. They will assist the central agencies in setting some national guidelines on
health insurance reform. At the municipal level, the TA will lay the foundation for centralized
management of health insurance.
Module 1.    Medical Informatics
Objective: To develop an information system on the utilization, cost, and quality of health
services, not only as an ongoing management tool, but as a basis for making policy decisions.
Scope: Technical assistance in the following areas:
a.  Define conceptually measures of utilization, cost, and quality; evaluate available data;
b.  Identify existing software for similar system and adapt it to local circumstances.
c.  Recommend appropriate computers and accessories necessary and a plan to establish the
system in each city and at the central level.
d.  Use the system to carry out an initial utilization study.
e.  Recommend adjustments in the system after it has been tried on a trial basis.
Schedule: Development of the system should begin in Phase I. The system will be used for a
baseline survey in Phase I or II. The system should then be modified to meet the needs of the health
care system, once decisions are made on its design.
Expertise Required: The technical assistance consultant(s) required for this module would be
an expert on health information systems with a knowledge of health care systems, computer systems,
and quantitative techniques. The consultant should have extensive knowledge on alternative software
and the ability to adapt it to local circumstances.
Module 2. Provider Reimbursement Systems
Objective: To help design a reimbursement system for health care providers that will allow
effective cost control.
Scope: Review the utilization study produced in Module 1 to identify problems of the current
systems; identify and evaluate feasibility of the following:
a.  Fee-for-service systems. Methods for pricing specific services. Data requirements.
Consequences for utilization and quality of care. Nonprice methods for controlling costs.
Administrative issues.
b.  Capitation systems. Methods for pricing--setting capitation rates. Quality control. Data
and administrative requirements. Implementation issues.
c.  Consumer choice under each approach, as a measure of cost and quality control.
Schedule: Phase II, after the initial establishment of the information system and the utilization
survey of Module 1 is complete or at least well under way. It should be offered close in time to
Module 3. Both Modules 2 and 3 should take place before major decisions are made on program
design.
Expertise Required: Policy experts familiar with the design of reimbursement systems. Since
a variety of designs are possible, the expert should be familiar with the approaches in a number of



- 102-                                ANNEX 10
countries. The expert should have data analysis skills suitable for evaluating results from the
utilization survey and be able to use them in evaluating the policy options.
Module 3.    Pooling, Premiums and Copayments, Coverage
Objective: To make recommendations on appropriate coverage for health insurance and how to
pay for it.
Scope: Analyze and project health care demand and costs to carry out the following:
a.  Defining operational criteria for deciding on inclusions and exclusions with respect to types
of service, facilities, location of services, and kind of provider. Defining "major" versus
"minor" illness, if these are to play a role in the design of benefits.
b.  Criteria for choosing among and combining alternative payment mechanisms: payment in
advance (premiums) vs. payment for services; for premiums, payment by enterprises vs. by
workers; for payment for services, deductible vs. copayment.
c.  Taking account of provider reimbursement mechanism (Module 3) in designing premiums,
payments, and coverage.
d.  Designing a pooling system which will be solvent, applying insurance principles.
Schedule: This module should be undertaken before a city makes major decisions on the design
of its coverage, contribution, and copayment systems. There may be differences between cities, but
the main design work should be in Phase II, with preliminary reviews done in Phase I. Since there is
an interaction between payment mechanisms and provider reimbursement systems, the timing of
Modules 2 and 3 should be close in time.
Expertise: Experts on health policy and insurance planning.
Module 4.    Designing Health Care Management System
Objective: To help design a system that can effectively manage new health care system.
Scope: Define the outlines and plans for developing the following:
a.  Systems for collecting [remiums and copayments; claims review and payment; ongoing
utilization review.
b.  By-laws and rules for the organization, including those concerning financial management.
c.  Staffing needs to carry out each of the tasks of the system.
d.  Developing computerized record-keeping and management system.
Schedule: Phases II and III.
Expertise: Mainly experts in operation of health insurance or health management programs,
assisted by health policy experts and informatics experts working on Modules 1, 2 and 3.
E. TRAINING
All the foregoing TA modules involve training activities, to provide policy makers with policy
options for social security and to train staff in new operational procedures and techniques. The
training will include several types: (1) centrally organized training for the trainers from the project
cities; (2) overseas training which may be either study tours or extended training for social security
workers; and (3) local training programs for staff of the municipal social security agencies.



- 103-                                   ANNEX 10
Training Type 1.  Training of Trainers Program. Centralized training programs will be
developed to train trainers from each of the cities who will conduct local training. Training materials
will be developed centrally, with marginal local modifications, in parallel with TA modules discussed
in the foregoing. The program development and training of trainers will involve training specialists
and the following steps:
a.  Initial site visit. Training specialists will visit each city for up to one week to evaluate the
needs of the city with respect to various modules.
b.  Preparation of materials. Drawing on the information from the cities and advice from
training specialists, the technical experts will develop training materials for their modules.
Training specialists will also develop materials for teaching training methods.
c.   Training program for trainers from the cities. Between 3 and 6 trainers will come from
each city to participate in a two week training program using the materials developed.
d.  City trainers hold training sessions for staff in their own cities. At least two training
sessions will be held in each city using the newly developed materials.
e.   Evaluation. City trainers will attend an evaluation session. They will report experiences
using the materials. The training materials will be revised, to be used in future city
training programs.
Training Type 2.  City Training. Municipalities will use part of the loan resources to cover the
cost of local training programs, for the training of SIA and government staff, rather than enterprise
staff. Training specialists will assist the municipalities to design detailed training plans.
Training Type 3.  Overseas Training. The project will support:
Study tours for senior officials to observe other social security systems and assess their
suitability for China, each lasting for about three weeks to visit two or three countries;
Overseas training for middle managers and senior technicians who will study selected aspects of
social security in depth, for a duration of 3-10 months.
Foreign consultants working on different modules will assist in identification of suitable training
programs and arranging the training.
F. ADMINISTRATION, BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
Administration. Most of the social security reform programs as well as TA activities will be carried
out in the participating municipalities, led by respective labor bureaus and assisted by consultants
recruited locally. As the range and nature of improvements sought are similar across cities, however,
it will be efficient for all participating municipalities and central authorities to share the expertise and
findings of the TA activities. In view of this, the national and international consultant services will be
jointly managed under the leadership of the Central Coordinating Group (CCG). Further, most of the
equipment needed for computerization and training can also be procured in consolidated packages to
increase the purchasing power and to economize on expenses for bidding and quality assurance.
Joint management of TA as well as monitoring of social security reform process will be
undertaken by a CCG subgroup, supported by a team of at least three full-time social security experts.
This team of national experts will be assisted by a few international advisors for short periods of
time. The advisory team will consist of three to four experts in social security and health insurance



- 104-                             ANNEX 10
policy, operations, and computerization. Their assistance will be drawn for two to six weeks periods,
in preparing detailed terms of reference (TOR) for shared consultancy at the outset of the project, and
in management and evaluation of the TA implementation at the conclusion of TA Phases.
Budget and Cost Sharing. It is estimated that the social security TA will require a total consultant
input of about 620 person-months (PM) consultant services, for a total cost of about $4.8 million
including contingencies. This is expected to consist of international consultant services of about 105
PM, and about 515 PM of national and local consultant services. Of these, about 225 PM of local
consultant services will be procured in separate consultant contracts by municipalities. As discussed
above, the CCG will recruit and retain its expert team (about 90 PM) and the international advisory
team (about 10 PM). The rest (95 PM of international consultancy and 200 PM of national
consultancy) will be procured as one or two national consultant contracts. These estimates indicate
the level of necessary consultancy efforts. The budgets will be revised after consultant contracts are
finalized, making adequate provisions for contingencies.
The expenditures incurred for the consultants retained by the CCG and about a half of other
shared consultancy will be distributed among the participating municipalities and central authorities in
proportion to total World Bank funding received. Cost of planning and arranging for the centralized
program for trainers and training materials will be shared in the same basis, although other direct
expenses of trainees will be borne by each municipality. The budget is summarized in Table 1.
Table 1.    Social Security Technical Assistance Cost by City and Category
(US$ million)
Beiiing Chengdu NinQbo Yantai Center Total
Consultants
Foreign        1.04    0.81    0.31    0.41    0.23    2.80
Local          0.36    0.29    0.13    0.11    0.13    1.02
Subtotal       1.40    1.10    0.44    0.52    0.35    3.82
TRAINING
Foreign        1.23    0.97    0.24    0.22    0.45    3.11
Local          0.44    0.41    0.04    0.04    0.02    0.94
Subtotal       1.67    1.38    0.28    0.26    0.47    4.05
Equipment
Foreign        2.20    1.40    0.36    0.48    0.32    4.75
Local          0.39    0.25    0.06    0.08    0.06    0.84
SubTotal       2.58    1.65    0.42    0.56    0.38    5.59
Total Base Cost
Foreign        4.47    3.18    0.91    1.11    1.00   10.66
Local          1.18    0.95    0.23    0.24    0.20    2.81
Total          5.65    4.13    1.14    1.34    1.20   13.47
(Yuan Million 49.17   35.95    9.89   11.68   10.46  117.16)
Total Costs    (including: Physical Contingencies  10.0%; and
Price Contingencies in US$: Foreign Costs 11.3%
Local Costs    30.1%)
Consultancy   1.79    1.41    0.57    0.66    0.46    4.89
Training       2.13    1.77    0.35    0.33    0.57    5.15
Equipment      3.24    2.07    0.52    0.70    0.48    7.02
TOTAL         7.16    5.25    1.44    1.69    1.51   17.06
(Yuan Million 77.00   56.48   15.48   18.19   16.28  183.43)



- 105 -                               ANNEX 10
Schedule. The TA programs will be carried out in three Phases: Phase I from about July 1994 to
December 1995; Phase II from January 1996 to March 1997; and Phase III from April 1997 to June
1998. Tentative timing of several important steps is indicated in Table 2 below.
Table 2. Indicative Schedule of Major Activities
Activities                                                            Target Date
Phase I
- CCG team of national social security experts and international advisory    July - September
team visit the cities and identify detailed technical requirements; prepare  1994
detailed TOR for the major consultancy, a letter of invitation, and a short
list; TOR for preliminary activities to be done by municipalities and their
consultants
- First overseas study tour according to the plans prepared by the above  October 1994
teams, including up to two persons from each city
- Consultants start work                                              October 1994
- First consultant report due, including outline assessment of current  December 1994
systems, detailed work plan, specification of the first equipment
procurement package, plan for senior management study tour, and
recommendation and TOR for local city-specific local consultancy
- First invitation for bids for the equipment for prototype establishment  March 1995
- Phase I Interim report due, presenting preliminary work on all modules    May 1995
including, among others, systems development plans, evaluation of current
systems, list of alternative options, data analysis, training program
development plan, and preliminary results of projections and modelling
- Start establishment of prototype office and training of personnel   July 1995
- Phase I draft final report presenting progress of work reported on in the    October 1995
interim report, and presenting recommendation on benefit-contribution
formulae and organizational structure and staffing
- First series of centralized training of trainers sessions; bid invited for  November 1995
the second batch of equipment procurement



- 106-                                 ANNEX 10
Table 2. (continued)
Activities                                                              Target Date
Phase II
- Launch of pilot health insurance and capitation systems; Second series  February 1996
of centralized training programs
- Start first stage implementation of district office computerization and  April 1996
large scale training in each city
- Phase II interim report discussing, among others, results of projections,    August 1996
major issues facing the four social security systems, evaluation of
alternatives, detailed designs of procedures and organizations
- Third series of training programs at the center and in cities         November 1996
- Phase II final report, discussing evaluation of pilot health insurance  March 1997
schemes, first stage computerization, operation of new procedures,
effectiveness of TA programs, impacts of new systems on social indicators
Phase III
- Implementation of second stage computerization program; Delivery of   April - September
equipment procured                                                      1997
- Fourth series of training programs                                    September 1997
- Completion of transfer of retiree service functions to SIA            December 1997
- Phase III Report presenting, will, among others, revised projections,  June 1998
recommended refinement in benefit-contribution formulae, evaluation of
SIA performance, recommendation for further strengthening of SIA
organizations



- 107 -
ANNEX I 1
PROJECTED DISBURSEMENTS AND PRICE ESCALATION
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
Bank   Semester
FY       Ending               Total   Center Beiiing Chengdu Ningbo  Yantai
-    --------------- US$ Million ---------------
1995   Dec 31,  1994         3%   11       0.0      5.1      2.4      1.7       1.4
Jun 30,  1995        8%   28       0.1     13.5      6.4      4.4       3.6
1996   Dec 31,  1995        16%   56       0.3     26.9     12.8      8.8       7.2
Jun 30,  1996      28%   98        0.6    47.0      22.4     15.4      12.6
1997   Dec 31,  1996       42%  147        0.9    70.5      33.6     23.1      18.9
Jun 30,  1997      54%  189        1.1     90.7    43.2      29.7      24.3
1998   Dec 31,  1997       64%  224        1.3   107.5      51.2     35.2      28.8
Jun 30,  1998      72%  252       1.4   121.0       57.6     39.6      32.4
1999   Dec 31,  1998       79%  277       1.4   132.9       63.2     43.5      35.6
Jun 30,  1999      85%  298        1.5   143.0      68.0     46.8      38.3
2000   Dec 31,  1999        91%  319       1.5   153.2      72.8     50.1      41.0
Jun 30,  2000      96%  336        1.5   161.7      76.8     52.8      43.2
2001   Dec 31,  2000   100%  350           1.5   168.5      80.0     55.0      45.0
PROJECTED ANNUAL PRICE ESCALATION
International                   Domestic
Year        in US$                      in Yuan
(MUV*)          General       Construction
1994           3.4%             12.0%              20.0%
1995           2.9%              9.0%              12.0%
1996           3.0%              8.0%              10.0%
1997           2.7%              7.2%               8.0%
1998           2.7%              7.2%               8.0%
1999           2.5%              6.0%               8.0%
2000           2.5%              6.0%               8.0%
Weighted
Total         11.3%             37.8%              56.8%
Note *  Manufactured export unit value index
Source: Bank Group projections



ANNEX 12
Project Costs and Loan/Credit Allocation by City
(US$ Million in Current Prices)
PROJECT COSTS                Center     Beijing   Chengdu     Ningbo     Yantai   TOTAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Social Security
Consultancy                0.46        1.79       1.41       0.57       0.66        4.89
Training                    0.57       2.13       1.77       0.35       0.33        5.15
Equipment                   0.48       3.24       2.07       0.52       0.70        7.02
Subtotal                    1.51       7.16       5.25       1.44       1.69       17.06
Housing and Property (HMC and Municipalities)
Consultancy                            1.09       0.52       0.36       0.29        2.26
Training                               0.86       0.41       0.28       0.23        1.77
Equipment                              0.68       0.32       0.22       0.18        1.41
Subtotal                               2.63       1.25       0.86       0.70        5.44
Housing Finance (Banks)
Consultancy                            0.43       0.21       0.14       0.12        0.89
Training                               0.37       0.18       0.12       0.10        0.77
Equipment                              0.41       0.19       0.13       0.11        0.84
Subtotal                               1.21       0.58       0.40       0.32       2.50
All Technical Assistance
Consultancy                0.46        3.31       2.13       1.07       1.07       8.04
Training                    0.57       3.36       2.36       0.75       0.66        7.70
Equipment                   0.48       4.33       2.59       0.88       0.99        9.27
Total                       1.51      11.01       7.08       2.69       2.72       25.00
HOUSING
Total Housing Investments            448.28     207.65     148.79     120.28      925.00
(Mortgage Loans)                   315.53     146.15     104.73      84.66      651.07
TOTAL COSTS                    1.51     459.29     214.73      151.49     123.00     950.00
(in Yuan Milion)           16.28    4937.34    2308.32    1628.47    1322.25   10212.53
LOAN/CREDIT                  Center     Beijing   Chengdu     Ningbo     Yantai   TOTAL
IBRD LOAN, US$ Million Equivalent
(1) Goods                      0.36       3.20       1.91       0.65        0.74       6.85
(2) Consultancy/Training       0.81       5.24       3.53        1.43       1.36      12.36
(3) Housing Loan                        123.96      57.42      41.14       33.26     255.78
Total                       1.17     132.39      62.86      43.22      35.36      275.00
IDA CREDIT, SDR Million
(1) Goods                      0.07       0.62       0.37       0.13        0.14       1.32
(2) Consultancy/Training       0.16       1.01       0.68       0.28        0.26       2.39
(3) Housing Loan                         23.92      11.09       7.95        6.43      49.39
Total                       0.23      25.55      12.14       8.35       6.83       53.10
TOTAL LOAN/CREDIT, US$ Million Equivalent
(1) Goods                      0.45       4.07       2.43       0.82        0.94       8.72
(2) Consultancy/Training       1.03       6.67       4.49       1.82        1.73      15.74
(3) Housing Loan                        157.76      73.08       52.36      42.33     325.54
Total                       1.50     168.50      80.00      55.00      45.00      350.00
(Yuan Milon)               1613    1811.38      860.00     591.25     483.75    3762.50



- 109-                                ANNEX 13
MONITORING, SUPERVISION, AND EVALUATION
1.           Objectives. Significant and systematic monitoring and supervision efforts are required
for the project due to several important factors: (i) the wide scope of reform; (ii) the novelty and technical
complexity of the new institutions and practices introduced under the project; (iii) difficult socio-economic
adjustment by enterprises, government, and workers; (iv) fast pace of change in economic, financial and
governmental frameworks in urban China; and (v) the fact that the project is a pilot effort to establish
an effective reform strategy for possible replication in all cities of China.
2.            Scope. These factors suggest that monitoring and supervision efforts should focus on:
(i) measuring project progress not only against usual implementation indicators including schedule of
physical investment and TA, but also broader, longer-term policy objectives and comparators outside the
project; (ii) monitoring and evaluating the project impact against a broad range of related socio-economic
indicators; (iii) assisting implementing agencies deal with implementation issues not only to better comply
with project designs but also, when necessary, to adjust the project designs in order to improve the
effectiveness of the reform strategy or to adapt to changing circumstances; and (iv) drawing useful lessons
for adoption in similar reform efforts later or in other localities.
3.            Responsibilities. The implementing agencies -- HMCs, PFIs, and social security agencies
-- have direct interest in performance of the systems and would generate many of necessary data. Their
consultants will also generate in-depth analyses. By design, the project requires, and provides incentives
for the implementing agencies, particularly the PFI, to comply with the agreed operating criteria and
supervise HMCs to do so. The municipal project management offices (PMOs) will be primarily
responsible for consolidating information generated by the implementing agencies, collecting broader city-
wide information, and provide a summary to the Bank Group and CCG semi-annually. The PMO will
also be responsible for first responses to detect implementation problems and dealing with them. The
CCG will be responsible for monitoring project progress in comparison among project cities and with
non-project cities, and providing national policy guidelines to deal with emerging issues.
4.            Bank Group Supervision. The Bank Group will field supervision missions normally in
April/May and October/November each year. A project launch workshop will be held in October 1994,
a mid-term review in either May or October 1997, and the project completion mission in April 2001.
The project design, emphasizing responsible actions by implementing agencies in pursuit of their own
interests, helps reduce the supervision burden for review and assistance of usual investment operations
such as procurement. On the other hand, the project calls for provision of technical assistance in
operation and development of new institutions, including the review of a considerable number of complex
loan documents. The project will also require considerable Bank Group assistance for implementing
agencies manage technical assistance and research input to draw useful lessons for future operations in
China or in other transition economies. These considerations suggest that the project will require a
minimum of about 20 staff-weeks (sw) of supervision input per year, or more likely about 25 sw, in the
areas of: general management (3-5 sw); housing market and housing finance (7-10 sw); labor and
enterprise systems (2 sw); financial analysis and management (3-5 sw); social security and health
insurance (2-3 sw); and other specialties (social scientists, legal experts, computer specialists, as necessary
for an average of 2 sw a year). However, the launch workshop will require additional 10 sw, and the
mid-term review another 10 sw.



- 110-                                ANNEX 13
MONITORING INDICATORS AND METHODS
5.           Throughout project implementation, project performance and impacts will be monitored
by use of indicators listed below. City officials will monitor various aspects of project performance and
forward their findings to the Bank at regular intervals. The monitoring indicators will be organized along
the following lines: development of housing management companies; HMC financial performance;
housing consumption patterns; housing finance system; housing supply; legal and regulatory framework;
impact on enterprises. Data from HMCs and participating banks will be collected quarterly. All other
data should be collected annually, if only on a sample basis. Sample survey will be conducted annually
for information which is not routinely collected by HMC or city; for some information that require
complex cross-tabulation, such as income-housing relationship, sample survey will be done less
frequently. The first sample survey will be conducted by the end of 1994 to provide a baseline for future
comparison.
6.     Operation and Development of HMCs:
(a)    number of HMCs;
(b)    number and types of enterprises within HMC system, compared with city;
(c)    amount of total existing housing stock and new housing stock acquired by HMCs (m2,
apartment units, % of total city); their characteristics (location, size, age, and other)
compared with city totals or averages;
(d)    number of HMC tenants who are employed by HMC shareholders and those who are not
(as % of total workers in the city, and % of total employees of HMC shareholders);
(e)    Inventory of current housing stock managed by each HMC (including total number of
dwelling units, total gross floor area, total usable floor area, total land area, usable floor
area/unit, density (units/ha of land, gross floor area ratio), and average actual
maintenance yearly cost per unit; comparison with city totals or averages;
(f)    distribution of rent per m2 and per apartment within each HMC and city;
(g)    average days of vacancy per each housing unit of HMC in the past 12 months;
(h)    average construction cost and sales price per in2, for HMC and for city;
(i)    size distribution of new units acquired or built, by HMC and for the city;
(j)    HMC cash flows and dividend distribution compared against equity and debt service; and
(k)    Revenues and investments due to rental housing operation, housing sales, and other
businesses.
7.    Housing Consumption Patterns: Most of the following information will be generated by survey,
especially for city-wide information:
(a)    number and percent of workers without housing, for HMC shareholders; and for the city;



-111-                               ANNEX 13
(b)    number and percent of employees changing apartments in each HMC in the past 12
months, including those who (1) moved into the HMC system from "outside" (dormitory,
private, or parents' homes); (2) left HMC system (to private system, etc.); and (3) moved
within the HMC system;
(c)    household income distribution of HMC tenants and of city; relationship between income
and housing unit size, for HMC and city;
(d)    household size and age distribution of HMC tenants and city-wide;
(e)    positive or negative gap between rent and wage supplements for HMC tenants;
(f)    present and planned homeownership rates among employees of HMC shareholders,
compared with the city;
(g)   savings rate by employees of HMC shareholders, and city-wide;
8.    Development of Housing Finance System
(a)   total number and value of new housing mortgage loans to HMCs, by participating bank
and HMC;
(b)   total number and value of new housing mortgage loans to individuals, by participating
bank;
(c)   total number and value of new housing mortgage loans granted outside of the project, by
participating bank;
(d)   interest margin earned on mortgage loans (1 .8%  minimum) and other loans, by
participant bank; and
(e)    amount of arrears (less than 3% of portfolio late more than 3 months) and defaults, by
participating bank.
9.    Legal and Regulatorv Indicators:
(a)   reported defaults, by participating bank, and reported outcome; and
(b)   reported eviction notices, by HMC, and reported outcome.
10.   Impact on Enterprises
(a)    number and % of staff working on social welfare functions (housing, social security,
health insurance) within enterprises in each HMC;
(b)   job mobility within the participating enterprises by HMC, reflecting those who joined
enterprises, left enterprises voluntarily, and were dismissed by enterprises, as %
beginning period total employment; and



- 112-                                  ANNEX 13
(c)    choice of housing mode by employees who received wage adjustments but later left HMC
housing, by HMC.
11.   Implementation of Social Security Reform Measures. Each municipality agreed to a set of target
dates for achieving key objectives such as city-wide pooling of retirement pension funds, introduction of
pooling for health care expenditures, and transfer of management functions from enterprises to social
security agencies. The progress of reforms would be assessed against the agreed target dates given in
Annex 9, Table 1. Specifically, information would be collected during project implementation on:
(a)    number of workers participating in pooling for retirement pensions, (and % of total
enterprises) by city;
(b)    number of workers participating in pooling for major medical (% of city);
(c)    number of workers covered by unemployment insurance (and % of total urban workers)
by city; and
(d)    cost and utilization rate of medical services after the implementation of cost-containment
measures (number of hospital visits per worker per year, number of drugs prescribed per
consultation, average length of hospital stay).
12.    Growth and Performance of Social Security Administration
(a)    number of full-time staff (technical and administrative) employed by the social security
agency (% increase over 1993 levels) by city;
(b)    number of individual records (of workers and retirees) entered into computerized database
for management of retirement pensions (% of all participating workers and retirees) by
city;
(c)    number of branch offices of the social security agency set up at a district- or
neighborhood-levels to deliver retirement pension and/or unemployment insurance
benefits (% increase over 1993 levels); and
(d)    number of health insurance management offices set up in the municipality (% increase
over 1993 levels).
13.   Impact of Social Security Reform on Enterprises
(a)    number of social security management staff of enterprises (% decrease over 1993 levels);
(b)    job mobility of workers in the enterprises participating in the unemployment insurance,
retirement pension and health insurance pools, defined as (i) the number of workers who
left voluntarily; % of this group who benefitted from the services of the municipal
employment bureau (specifically, number retrained, number placed in other positions,
number assisted in self-employment), and (ii) the number workers dismissed by
enterprises.



- 113-                               ANNEX 14
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    "Housing and Social Security Systems Reform Programs," Letters of Beijing, Chengdu,
Ningbo, and Yantai Municipalities (dated May 13, 1994), forming a part of a Supplemental
Letter to the Development Credit Agreement
2.    "Resettlement Framework," Letters by Beijing, Chengdu, Ningbo, and Yantai Municipalities
(dated May 13, 1994), forming a part of a Supplemental Letter to the Development Credit
Agreement
3.    State Council Guidelines for Housing Systems Reform (1988, 1991)
4.    A List of National and Local Regulations on Environment and Resettlement (November 1993)
5.    A Set of National and Local Regulations on Resettlement (various dates, in Chinese)
6.    Summary Statistics on Enterprise, Housing and Municipal Finance of Various Cities, 1992
7.    Selected Tables of Housing and Land Market Indicators of Chengdu and Ningbo (March
1993, February 1994)
8.    Models of Charter, Operating Policies, and Lease for Housing Management Companies
(March 1993)
9.    Charters and Sample Leases of Four Housing Management Companies in the Project Cities
(dated between July 1993 and January 1994)
10.   Housing Management Companies: Management Proposals (by Messrs. Luckens, Fulton and
Redman, May 1993)
11.   Projection of Operation and Finances of Housing Management Companies, 1994-2000;
Projection of Aggregate Operation and Finances of Housing Management Companies by City,
1994-2000; A Comparative Projection of Housing Supply and Finances under the Existing and
New Housing Delivery Systems, 1994-2000. In print and diskette form.
12.   Legal Framework for Housing Market and Housing Finance in Chinese Cities: An Overview
(Feng Wang, June 1994)
13.   Discussion Papers on: Foreclosure, Eviction, and Condominium Instruments (by Robert
Josephs, April 1993)
14.   Model Condominium Declaration and Bylaw (Federation of Community Associations. October
1993)



-114-                               ANNEX 14
15.   Municipal Regulations on Mortgage Lending, Foreclosure, and Eviction of Beijing, Chengdu,
Ningbo and Yantai Municipalities (January - May 1994, in Chinese)
16.   People's Construction Bank of China, Annual Reports, 1990-1992
17.   Industry and Commerce Bank of China, Annual Reports, 1990-1992
18.   Financial Statements of Eight Participating Financial Intermediary Units, 1990-1993.
19.   Actual and Projected Financial Status of Nine Participating Financial Institutions, 1992-2000.
In print and diskette form.
20.   Guidelines for Multifamily Mortgage Loan Transactions (Technical guidelines prepared by
April LeClair, October 1993)
21.   Tentative Methods for Mortgage Lending (People's Construction Bank of China, September
1992)
22.   Summary and Evaluation of Computerization Programs for Social Security and Health
Insurance Systems by City (January 1994)
23.   China: Reforming Social Security in a Socialist Economy (World Bank Report No. 8074-
CHA, 1990)
24.   China: Industrial Policies for an Economy in Transition (World Bank Report No. 8312-CHA,
i990)
25.   China: Urban Housing Reform: Issues and Implementation Options (World Bank Report No.
9222-CHA, 1991)
26.   China: Reforming the Urban Employment and Wage System (World Bank Report No. 10266-
CHA, 1992)
27.   China: Industrial Restructuring: A Tale of Three Cities (World Bank Report No. 10479-CHA,
1992)
28.   China: Urban Land Management: Options for an Emerging Market Economy (World Bank
Report No. 10962-CHA, 1992)
29.   China: Involuntary Resettlement (World Bank Report No. 11641-CHA, 1993)



RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
KAZAKHSIANS TA N
AN, A
MONGOLIA
KISTAN                  J7M                                                                                                       t>                                  \     St
JAPAN
-I~ ~~A-
O   EF O
TAJIK14TAN                                                                                                               *-                                                 O 
~~e>  AFGHANISTAN                                                |H.hh.    EIJI                                                                k     \vWE
Of her tnfotrtnoi-h-t ond  ony                       t                            -<,, 71        /      tSt        /   2         t   SI,,,,C   i           * Yonbi             REP AF
innply, on  the  port of                                     rORt
sttu    f  _7y  f-d-toy,                                                                                                                    1
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A PnreOPLE<t'S                                                                      0'                           PHILIPPIN> ~ES
-y~~~NEA -  9.  --.A8;
_h                                                 Che,-gdINA
ENTERPRISE HOUSING AND SOCIAL SECURITY                                                                                            kf1 vJJ < FfUNAr,                                                                  130-
REFORM PROJECT                                             #2           uzran@ <1                                                 thjjiAN
*9    PROJECT CITIES                                                                                                                            T umgS )      /9  A'AN
S      PROVINCE CAPITALS                                 _                                                        fiAN(.D.)N(. 
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                    I1;       t'NNAN             D      G4(X 
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                  7                                    _> Nonn *Gow
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                           P   VIET NAM   \_ON\                              G KOII(, U.K.
_   FLOAtTEh'S D  I  | 400  a t I  s  I                 y             \                                       tOCAO. PnRT.                                                                D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACA, PRT
z                wos n    ~~~~~~~IL)   IL   Zu    a  50u                              4    E^ E                             HvupHILIPPINES                                                                               t
e                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THAILN   )    W_hANAN                                                                                    s
1s / _ lI r 13t Ji~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3



