                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 32366-CHA




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (IDA-26420 CPL-37730 SCL-3773A SCPD-3773S)

                                          ON A

                                    LOAN AND CREDIT

               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$275 MILLION AND SDR53.1 MILLION
                              (US$75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                              PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                         FOR THE

            ENTERPRISE HOUSING AND SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM PROJECT




                                       June 29, 2006




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                                          Y1 = US$ 0.12
                                      US$ 1 = Y 8.3

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASEM    Asia-Europe Meeting
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CCG     Central Coordination Group
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
HMC     Housing Management Company (Joint Stock Company)
HPF     Housing Provident Fund
HRO     Housing Systems Reform Office
IT      Information Technology
MOC     Ministry of Construction
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOL     Ministry of Labor
MOLSS   Ministry of Labor and Social Security
MOPH    Ministry of Public Health
ODA     Overseas Development Authority
PBC     People's Bank of China (central bank)
PFI     Participating Financial Intermediary
PMO     Project Management Office
QAG     Quality Assurance Group (of the Bank)
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SARS    Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SOE     State-owned Enterprise
SPC     State Planning Commission
SRC     Systems Reform Commission
TA      Technical Assistance

                             Vice President:   Mr. Jeffrey Gutman, Acting EAPVP
                          Country Director:    Mr. David Dollar, EACCF
                            Sector Director:   Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                         Task Team Leader:     Mr. Songsu Choi, SASEI

                                            CHINA
      ENTERPRISE HOUSING AND SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29

Project ID: P003603                                                  Project Name: ENTERPRISE HOUSING AND SOCIAL
                                                                     SECURITY REFORM PROJECT
Team Leader: Songsu Choi                                             TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: ENTERPRISE HOUSING AND SOCIAL                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-26420; CPL-37730;
                            SECURITY REFORM PROJECT                                                  SCL-3773A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3773S
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Housing finance and real estate markets (93%); Sub-national government administration (6%);
                            Central government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Municipal governance and institution
                            building (S); Social risk mitigation (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/07/1992                                     Effective:                           12/09/1994
     Appraisal: 10/04/1993                                         MTR:
      Approval: 07/05/1994                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          People's Republic of China/Municipalities of Beijing; People's Republic of
                                           China/Chengdu; People's Republic of China/Ningbo and Yantai
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Mr. Jeffrey Gutman (Acting)                    Mr. Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Mr. David R. Dollar                            Mr. Nicholas Hope
Sector Director:                Mr. Keshav Varma                               Ms. Katherine Sierra
Team Leader at ICR:             Mr. Songsu Choi                                Mr. Songsu Choi
ICR Primary Author:             Ms. Yan F. Zhang; Mr. Songsu
                                Choi; Mr. Herbert Boehm


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background. Because of the highly unusual and experimental nature of this Project, a more extensive
description of the background of Chinese economic reforms, as well as the enterprise, housing, and social
security sectors at the time of appraisal, is in order.

         The key to the transformation of China's economic and urban systems during the 1980s was
radical decentralization that increased the autonomy of enterprises and local governments. The central
government set broad policy directions and targets but allowed local governments to specify
implementation arrangements and schedules. Locally generated fiscal revenues were shared among levels
of government through periodic negotiations and local governments could exercise substantial discretion in
spending the locally retained revenues. Local governments were given authority and responsibility to
oversee state-owned enterprises as well as collectively-owned enterprises which were fewer and smaller in
urban areas. As a result, the systems reform also greatly increased the autonomy of the enterprises.
Production quotas and pricing restrictions were gradually abolished. Instead of government deciding or
approving all pricing and spending decisions, the enterprises were allowed to decide how to spend their
after-tax financial surpluses.

         Main areas benefiting from the autonomy were investments and employee benefits ­ housing,
bonuses, and health care ­ rather than wages which remained proscribed. Among the most visible effects
were the substantial increase in housing construction and the stark difference between the quality of
housing provided for employees of different enterprises. During the preceding two decades of the Cultural
Revolution and industrialization drive, very little investments had been made in housing leaving urban
housing small ­ less than five square meters per capita ­ and decrepit by early 1980s. When housing
investments were allowed again, they surged to nearly 10 percent of urban GDP and have been sustained at
high levels ever since. Due to the substantial amount of investment and lack of housing finance, however,
they were affordable only to highly profitable enterprises and high-revenue government units. New housing
units were several times larger than older ones and were equipped with modern kitchens and bathrooms,
luxuries rarely seen in older housing. Even within wealthier work units, the housing disparity became a
major issue since new housing had to be rationed and the rents were nominal regardless of size or quality.

         Similar disparities emerged in pension and health care. Unprofitable enterprises, especially those
with a large proportion of retirees, became unable to meet pension obligations and the health care costs that
were increasing along with overall price liberalization. For these, local governments were obliged to
protect the beneficiaries' livelihood through subsidies to the firms, still leaving the individual benefit
administration to the employers. In essence, housing and social security were tightly bonded with
employment, with little influence by individuals or the government.

         This system of decentralization provided strong incentives for enterprise performance and led to
robust overall economic growth. Nevertheless, the inequities of the system grew problematic even as
overall incomes rose rapidly. The system also inhibited continued growth in economic efficiency.
Although the construction industry became liberalized and competitive, overall housing market efficiency
was low as the demand side remained locked into a rationing system. Even profitable enterprises were
concerned about the continuing demand for more housing investment that limited their business
investments. Labor mobility was extremely low as firms were deterred by housing and welfare obligations
of new employees, and the employees were unwilling to lose their housing or their place in the queue.




                                                       - 2 -

         As a result, in the late 1980s, the government began experimenting with ways to modify the
system. With respect to social security, a general consensus was forming toward the pooling of pension
and health care resources and their distribution, and some municipalities began experimenting with pooling.
In the case of housing, the general direction was set toward more individual responsibilities and market
mechanisms, with increased rents and long-term housing financing. Various local experiments, however,
did not lead to clear-cut examples that could be adopted as national policies. Difficulties in social security
pooling included the lack of models to balance contributions and payouts over the long-term and across
many enterprises, and the lack of administrative capacity to cover more than a small fraction of a city. As
for housing, gradual rent increases were eroded by inflation, even resulting in (a) decreases in real terms;
(b) experiments with selling housing to individuals had to be scaled back in the face of reluctance by
consumers who saw little benefit in buying versus practically renting free; and (c) complaints from other
consumers as well as enterprises who considered the sale an unfair benefit for a lucky minority.
Consequently, even though an agency, the Systems Reform Commission, was established to coordinate and
formulate national policies for reform, there were considerable differences of view within the government
about the most desirable systems and best ways to proceed.

         It was at this time that the Project was conceived (1992/3), i.e., when the broad orientation for
reform in enterprise, housing, and social security systems was accepted, but practical and specific ways
forward remained unclear. It incorporated findings of housing and enterprise sector studies that had started
earlier and also made contributions through in-depth studies during preparation. A unique feature of the
project preparation was the selection of four participating municipalities through discussions with 14
municipalities, selection of six, and then the follow-up reform actions during preparation that further
reduced the number to four. This was done mainly to ensure the political will to carry out the reform model
which was considered radical at the time, and to have a reasonable representation of size and location of the
municipalities for learning and replicability.

Objectives. The Project aimed at supporting four municipalities to implement a model reform strategy for:


1. freeing enterprises of direct responsibility for housing and social safety net provisions for their active
and retired work force;
2. initiating development of a market-based housing system;
3. enhancing the scope and management of a basic social safety net; hence
4. facilitating enterprise system reform.

The model reform strategy was designed to focus on: (a) autonomous for-profit companies specializing in
housing delivery direct to consumers; (b) taking over housing stock owned and operated by enterprises; (c)
initiating commercially viable housing rents and sales prices; (d) cash wage supplements that compensate
for rent increases; (e) market-oriented long-term mortgage lending operations for owner-occupied and rental
housing; (f) policy and regulatory framework allowing sustainable operation of the housing management
and finance institutions; (g) comprehensive pools of retirement pension, health insurance, and employment
services managed centrally by specialized municipal agencies; and (h) freeing enterprises of responsibility
for directly providing and managing worker housing and social security benefits.

Assessment of Objectives. These objectives reflected essential priorities as identified by both the national
and provincial governments and by the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time, i.e., to help
facilitate China's transition from a planned to a market economy while safeguarding the social safety net
and the environment, and by supporting innovative, flexible approaches to advancing the forefront of
reform, particularly in State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and their operating environment.


                                                     - 3 -

The general objectives clearly stated what the Project wanted to achieve. They were also reasonable as
they merely promised the development and testing of coherent models in the four pilot cities to be later
replicated in other Chinese cities, with modifications if necessary. Establishing new enterprise housing and
social security systems, especially with little institutional experience and capacity, is exceedingly complex
and demanding, requiring not only strong political will but also complicated and detailed technical designs
and implementation. The Staff Appraisal Report mentions a large number of institutional and technical
models to be introduced, ranging from a model rental contract to mortgage appraisal manual, to tax policies
and to pension data and administration systems.

In hindsight, one can question whether the Project pursued a strategy and objectives too ambitious and
radical, and can cite the objection by a part of the government that slowed down project implementation.
On one hand, the Project was intentionally designed as an appropriate counterpoint to the government's
own slow trial and error approach which in the past had not achieved any broadly workable outcome. On
the other hand, one could question whether the Project's strategy and model were too narrowly defined
leaving insufficient flexibility to modify the proposed models, including a more rapid transition to
market-based systems. A more flexible strategy might have prevented an early exit of one of the
participating municipalities in favor of rapid transition to individual ownership. A more flexible approach
could also have accommodated a more gradual strategy generally favored in the early years of the Project
and may also have made a greater contribution when the national consensus was strengthened for a rapid
transition to a new national policy.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project's objectives remained essentially unchanged, although modifications were made to the
geographical scope. (See "Revised Components.")


3.3 Original Components:
In order to assist the central, provincial and municipal governments to demonstrate the viability of reforms
in housing and social security in the cities of Beijing, Chengdu, Ningbo and Yantai, the Project contained a
covenanted list of systems reform actions together with the financial support for housing mortgage loans
and technical assistance and training. These two were linked not only through action plans but also
through the tie that made the former a technical condition to the latter.

System Reform Actions

For housing: (i) creating Housing Management Companies (HMCs) in each city with participating
enterprises providing their housing stock as in-kind equity capital; (ii) adjusting rents and house selling
prices to recover all costs; (iii) supplementing wages by the participating enterprises to compensate for the
average rent increases, but otherwise terminating the provision and maintenance of housing by the
participating enterprises; (iv) mobilizing market funds and providing long-term mortgage loans at
competitive rates by the participating financial intermediaries (PFIs); and (v) strengthening property rights
to safeguard the operation of HMCs and mortgage lending.

For social security systems: (i) establishing or extending retirement pension, workmen's compensation,
unemployment insurance, and health insurance pools; (ii) better linking benefits and contributions with
available resources and needs; (iii) improving health care administration; and (iv) strengthening municipal
agencies to assume administration of the above named benefit programs.



                                                        - 4 -

Physical Components

Housing Mortgage Loans (SAR: US$925 million). The lion's share of Bank financing (about US$325 of
the US$350 million loan) was slated for the partial financing of long-term housing mortgage loans. Most
of these loans were supposed to flow through the PFIs to the HMCs to purchase or build new rental
housing, or to individuals to purchase new housing. In fact, little of the financing went for the latter. The
mortgage interest rates were intended to be market-based, but in the absence of long-term market rates,
were linked to term deposit and Word Bank loan rates, and adjusted periodically subject to the Bank's
acceptance.

Technical Assistance and Training (SAR: US$25 million). As the system reform actions for both
housing and social security required the founding of new institutions and the strengthening of existing
entities, extensive knowledge transfer and training equipment were required. To support these efforts, five
areas of support were identified, the first three for housing, and the fourth and fifth for social security
reform:

(1)      TA programs for HMCs directed at: (a) development and computerization of accounting and
management information systems, including property and customer registers; (b) development of residential
property management and development systems and manuals; and (c) establishment and operation of
training programs for operators in each city as well as centralized training for middle and senior
management.

(2)      TA programs for PFIs aimed at: (a) improvement of mortgage loan appraisal and servicing
procedures, including revision of relevant manuals; (b) a study to recommend improvements in housing
finance practices and environment ­ resource mobilization and lending instruments, and asset-liability
management; (c) development and computerization of mortgage servicing systems and adoption of the new
accounting system; (d) training of staff and senior managers in the above topics; and (e) hands-on
assistance for mortgage lending operations by a resident advisor.

(3)      TA programs for municipal housing reform offices (HROs) and associated bureaus, aimed at (a)
improving property rights and property registration systems; (b) improving property valuation capabilities;
and (c) improving housing market monitoring and regulation.

(4)      TA programs for municipal labor and health bureaus aimed at: (a) developing management
systems for collection of contributions and payment of benefits for pension, health, and unemployment
insurance; (b) developing a model to project long-run costs and resources for social security systems; (c)
developing options for investing social security funds; (d) establishing the basis to expand labor exchange,
job placement, training, small business development, and other services for unemployed workers; (e)
developing an information system on costs, utilization and quality of health services; and (f) studies to
develop options for a health care cost reimbursement system and the financing and coverage of health
insurance.

(5)      TA programs for central government ministries concerned with social security, directed at: (a)
strengthening capabilities to analyze and develop policy and operational guidelines for further reform in the
retirement pension, work injury, unemployment and health insurance systems; (b) establishing a health
information system; (c) research on health care cost escalation, alternative systems of paying providers, and
the management of health insurance systems; and (d) monitoring the progress of reforms undertaken by the
project municipalities, to utilize the lessons for the design of new reform policies.


                                                       - 5 -

Assessment of Project Design. In order to develop a market-based housing system and a robust social
safety net, the Project provided valuable assistance to authorities to demonstrate, on the basis of several
model cities, how these objectives could be achieved. The Project thus tackled, in an admirably ambitious
approach, two principal pillars of China's market reform strategy which the Government had enormous
difficulties erecting in a timely and efficient manner on its own. A clear nexus existed between housing
reform and social security reform as both aimed at being removed from enterprise responsibility; however,
project implementation may have been less arduous and protracted if two parallel or two follow-up projects
would have addressed these two fundamental subject matters individually.

The housing system reform action program under the Project led to ground-breaking changes in housing
provision, pricing, and regulation as well as enterprise compensation practices. The Project's housing
finance support provided the necessary funding to bridge the housing investment shortage, which resulted
from enterprise withdrawal from housing investment in the absence of a functioning housing finance
system.

The desired changes in the social security system were financially much less burdensome than in housing
and, therefore project support was provided primarily through technical assistance and training. As in
housing, the principal tool for achieving the reforms was the social security reform action program.

As the desired housing and social security reforms included extensive institutional build-up, the Project
correctly set aside US$25 million for technical assistance and training to assist HMCs, PFIs, HROs, the
municipal labor and health bureaus and the central government ministries. The activities designed for this
component focused mostly on strengthening administration and financial management as well as improving
policy analysis and information systems.

Four cities ­ Beijing, Yantai, Chengdu, and Ningbo ­ were selected to participate in the Project. Each is
drastically different in terms of size, regional location, and economic and administrative status, reflecting
the diversity of the urban development spectrum in China. As the Project was foremost a demonstration
project, the selection of these divergent model cities was advantageous to prove the general applicability of
the proposed model reforms across a wide spectrum of municipal development. At the same time, the
distance between the four cities as well their divergent conditions and requirements, became a daunting
obstacle to central government oversight and Bank supervision throughout implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:

Cancellation of Yantai Component. In 1997, Yantai halted project implementation partly because of the
Project's slow progress, driven by a weak project management office and because a rapid transition to
individual ownership was possible in this small city that was growing extremely rapidly and where the
burden of old housing stock was less of a concern than in other cities. Agreement was reached in May
2000 to dissolve the HMC and steps for dissolution were completed in May 2001. As a result, the housing
subloan component was cancelled after little disbursement. However, programs offered under the TA
components for Yantai were maintained.

Liaoning Component. Savings from the Yantai component, amounting to US$4 million, were reallocated
to the development of social security systems in Liaoning Province as a national pilot. The new component
in Liaoning, incorporated in the form of an additional Project Agreement, was approved in September and
signed in October 2002. The component was essentially an addition of a fifth social security reform
component, but also included information systems and institutional strengthening for administration of the


                                                       - 6 -

Basic Living Allowance scheme, introduced nationwide in 1999. Furthermore, it included a more thorough
analysis and evaluation program, supported by an ASEM Grant in the amount of US$777,000 and
administered by the Bank.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
This ICR rates the Project's quality at entry for the original Project and the added Liaoning component as
satisfactory. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not assess quality at entry.

The Project, aimed in an ambitious endeavor at developing an efficient and sustainable market-based
housing system and a robust social safety net, was fully consistent with the Bank's country assistance
strategy (CAS) under which a key element had been support for China's transition to a market economy.
This in turn reflected the high priority the government placed on finding effective models for enterprise,
housing, and social security systems and their own failure to do so through experiments in the preceding
several years. The Project was thus formulated as a high risk, high reward experiment.

The four project cities were selected from among the 14 municipalities on the basis of their willingness to
reform their housing and enterprise systems and also on the basis of their demonstration potential. The
cities did indeed meet the selection criteria as demonstrated by the fact that they were successful in carrying
out a number of critical but politically difficult reform steps as conditions of Loan/Credit approval. These
conditions required that (a) at least one HMC in each project city be formally incorporated; (b) enterprises
pledge and transfer housing stock with total floor space of about 1.5 million m2; and (c) housing rent and
wages be increased. Other areas supporting satisfactory quality of entry can be found in the extensive
preparatory efforts, such as (a) preparation of the necessary legal and regulatory measures for such matters
as HMC charter, property rights, leases, mortgage financing, condominium bylaws and evictions; (b)
selection of PFIs and development of appraisal and operating procedures; and (c) advanced preparation of
a comprehensive technical assistance and training package. In order to explain the contemplated changes in
housing and social security reforms to the population of the selected cities, public education campaigns
were conducted.

Concerning social security, the four municipalities had, by October 1993, begun requiring all beneficiaries
to contribute to pension funds to supplement enterprise contributions. Chengdu, for example, had revised
its pension formula to guarantee a minimum safety net through indexation and to reflect the level and length
of individual earnings.

Compliance with Safeguard Policies

Potential harm to the environment and affected population might only have emanated from the Project's
housing development schemes. During preparation, resettlement policy frameworks were agreed upon with
each city. Still, the borrower was required to prepare resettlement action plans, satisfactory to the Bank,
for any housing development financed by the Project that involved resettlement of more than 200 people.
In actuality, however, no such plans were necessary because the majority of new housing construction
financed with the Bank loan took place on land previously administered by enterprises, hence encroachment
on farmland and nature areas was minimal. At other times, the HMCs bought a small portion of new
housing units or land from large land and housing development projects.

For environmental safeguards, any new housing development supported under the Project was required to
prepare environmental impact assessment (EIA) and mitigation measures, and provide proof to the Bank
and PFI that these were approved by the municipal environmental authorities.




                                                       - 7 -

Risk Assessment

The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) made reasonable assumptions about the expected benefits and
realistically assessed potential risks. The Project's drastically new approaches to reform enterprise housing
and social benefits, affecting a wide range of China's agenda for economic development and enterprise
restructuring, made it justifiably difficult to quantify with precision what impact the Project would have in
China over the long term. It was particularly challenging to predict to what degree the Project's reforms
would be replicable in other cities, even though the success or failure of reforms was expected to have
enormous implications for the national economy.

The main risk for the Project was whether the municipal authorities in the project cities would have the will
and capacity to implement the far bolder and more comprehensive action programs in the Project's
proposed housing reform model rather than the less drastic approaches tried by a number of Chinese cities
before the Project. In particular, concern was expressed that the authorities may not have continued
financial and political stamina to adjust wages and rent levels as needed and whether the reforms sought
under the Project would extend beyond the enterprises which initially had created the HMCs. The accuracy
of this risk assessment was borne out by the fact that none of the project cities adopted the reforms in the
pure form outlined under the Project.

Another risk identified by the SAR bore on the question of whether the participating project cities could
meet the institutional challenges presented by the plethora of novel institutions and practices. Again, these
concerns proved justified as actual implementation of the Project was markedly delayed by the lack of
experienced staff and the slowness of building up the organizational infrastructure to fully support the
Project. It was hoped that the extensive technical assistance and training component would mitigate this
risk. Unfortunately, this was not the case because this component was implemented far behind its original
schedule. This particular delay was not identified as a risk in the SAR. This delay problem was
particularly serious in the case of the Central Coordination Group (CCG) which was supposed to provide
national-level cross-sectoral policy support for the Project and monitoring, evaluating and disseminating the
reform experiences to other cities in China.

The social security reforms were much less controversial than those contemplated for housing and at least
in principle were consistent with and complementary to the Government's own reform plans. Furthermore,
a substantial portion of the social security reforms were well under way at the time of Loan/Credit
approval. Consequently, the SAR was right to grade the potential risk concerning this component as
relatively minor. However, as in the housing component, institutional challenges in the social security area
were also identified and proved to be a weakness that took considerable time to resolve.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Today, housing and social security provision in the cities in China are largely disassociated from
enterprises, the housing market operates to a large extent on a market basis, housing mortgage finance has
grown enormously, and labor mobility has increased greatly. These advances are mainly due to the bold
policy reform steps taken by the government since about 1998. The Project made a significant contribution
to the formulation of the policy by demonstrating the technical and political feasibility of the reforms and
providing institutional infrastructure to implement the new systems. In view of this, the project is rated
satisfactory. The following reviews the national policy reforms as they relate to the project objectives and
the way the Project helped formulate and implement the new systems.



                                                       - 8 -

The major breakthrough in China's urban housing system culminated with the decision in 1998 by the
then-new prime minister to ban the provision of housing by enterprises, provide long-term mortgage loans
to individuals, raise housing rents to market levels, and adjust wages to compensate for the lost in-kind
housing benefit. Among inputs to the new policy were the study of the design of the Project as well as the
cases of rent and wage adjustments under the Project. Subsequent implementing regulations weakened the
clear policy directions in order to accommodate concerns for financially weak enterprises as well as for the
possible negative effect on housing investments, with various price discounts, associated constraints to
property rights, and forced savings measures. Full implementation of the policy has also been delayed by a
number of exceptions granted. Nevertheless, by 2002, some 80 percent of urban housing stock in good
condition was transferred to individuals or to joint individual-enterprise ownership, and most new housing
has been sold to individuals. Fifteen-year mortgage loans are widely available and used, and the dominant
mortgage lender is the China Construction Bank, the main PFI under the Project.

One of the losses under the new system is the paucity of rental housing except through remaining old
housing stock rentals administered by municipalities and enterprises, and small informal rentals. A few of
the HMC's established under the Project are continuing and expanding the rental business as a profitable
commercial undertaking.

For social security, the government in 1996 decided to establish a three-pillar pension system pooled across
each province, and expand the pooling to a degree by providing substantial subsidies to provincial pools
that incur negative cash flows. In 1998 the government started establishing a Basic Living Allowance
scheme for the poor who could not participate in the pooled enterprise pension system, to be administered
by individual municipalities. The Project's main contribution was the introduction of technical tools to
analyze and design sustainable pension systems and administer large pension, unemployment, and health
insurance pools at the municipal level. Due partly to the participation in the Project, as of 2003, an
impressive 99 percent of retirees in the project cities received their benefits from the municipal social
security administrations rather than enterprises. Moreover, all workers in the project cities, (with or
without household registration) are now covered under unified municipal pension pools and major medical
insurance pools. In addition, numerous advances in the systems have improved the administration of the
pooled pension system, enabled the portability of benefits between employers, permitted more realistic
planning for health insurance policy and management, and strengthened the analytical and operational
support for unemployment administration. The extensive analysis and evaluation which was possible for
the Liaoning component is providing well-received input to the further development of the social security
system, especially for cities under economic stress.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall project outputs, including those from the additional Liaoning component, are rated as moderately
satisfactory.

(1)      Housing development schemes in the four participating cities.
Most of the Bank financing was channeled through PFIs to partially finance long-term housing mortgage
loans which amounted to over US$492 million compared to the SAR estimate of US$925 million. While
the actual mortgages reached only about 53 percent of the expected amounts because domestic financing
became increasingly more attractive than terms under the Bank-funded Project, this component was
instrumental in establishing a new market-based housing finance system. Particularly in the early project
stages, it helped to fill the transitional funding gap which arose when enterprises discontinued financing
housing construction and maintenance for their employees and resources had to be mobilized from
non-enterprise sources. Consequently, the output, albeit less in volume than expected at appraisal, is rated


                                                       - 9 -

satisfactory due to its policy impact on the overall housing market in China.

Under the Project, 10.3 m million of existing housing area was transferred from enterprises to HMCs.
                            2


Bank financing, however, was limited to new construction which amounted to an area of 2.9 m million2


benefiting about 58,000 households. Mortgage loans were provided primarily to HMCs. As correctly
expected at appraisal, funding for individual home loans was negligible as people who could afford private
home ownership have a traditional aversion to debt for housing and were often able to find more
competitive rates in the increasingly active housing finance market.

The SAR provided for performance indicators for the year 2000. However, neither the municipal project
management entities nor the Bank during its supervision paid much heed to these controls, as project delays
and the rapid reforms taking place in China rendered the 2000 targets moot. The project entities
subsequently developed their own planning targets and monitoring indicators.

(2)      Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance for Housing Reform :
The major part of the TA program for the enterprise housing reform was slated at appraisal for the HMCs
(US$4.8 million) to develop management and training systems for these new entities. Much smaller
programs were designed for PFIs (US$2.5 million) to improve loan appraisal, housing finance practices,
and accounting systems and Municipal Housing Reform Offices (US$700,000) to improve property
registration, property valuation and housing market analysis.

The initial phase of technical assistance for the HMCs was to focus on establishing a basic accounting and
information system. This activity was carried out by a grant fund from Australia. The new HMCs
established after the initial TA, however, had little access to the results of the TA. This led to a number of
disparate accounting and information systems being adopted by the HMCs. The rest of the planned
activities were delayed by more than three years awaiting the finalization of a grant from the United
Kingdom Overseas Development Authority (ODA), which eventually decided against funding the TA.
During the delay, the Housing Reform Office of the State Council was abolished, and individual
municipalities carried out parts of the planned TA according to their different priorities, and overall a
relatively small part of the TA activities was completed. The main reason for this poor performance was
the low capacity of HMCs to plan and carry out TA during a time when these entities struggled to develop
basic business practices and a sufficient complement of staff.

Technical Assistance for Social Security Reform:
In order to assist the participating project cities and the central authorities to implement the social security
systems reform, the Project was to provide funding for studies, consultancy, training and computerization
support for the municipal labor and health bureaus (US$15.6 million) and Ministry of Labor (MOL)
(currently Ministry of Labor and Social Security (MOLSS)), Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), Systems
Reform Commission (SRC), State Planning Commission (SPC), and the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
(US$1.5 million).

On balance, the TA component is rated moderately satisfactory, despite the fact that its implementation
was delayed nearly three years because MOL was initially reluctant to implement it as agreed at
negotiations. A series of study tours, training, and case studies were carried out by the central and
municipal labor, health, and social security agencies. The Chengdu and Beijing Project Management
Offices (PMOs) have each published a three-volume publication in both Chinese and English to
disseminate the work conducted by the Australian consultants, the findings reported by the overseas and



                                                      - 10 -

domestic study tours, and the experiences and knowledge gained through the Project.

(3)      Under the additional Liaoning component, the policy analysis component produced 11 useful
studies reviewing certain aspects of proposed reforms of the (a) pension system; (b) the labor market
programs and unemployment insurance; (c) urban social safety net (dibao) programs; and (d) information
management system. While the quality of the reports was uneven, overall they provided a good basis for
the Liaoning authorities and the central government to identify main policy and administrative issues and to
assess the performance of the pilot programs. Under the information system development component, IT
and training equipment was procured for seven pilot cities and 48 subordinate district offices. As an
example, this permitted the city of Benxi to computerize job vacancy information, greatly facilitating job
search efforts by the public seeking employment. Also, the project management and training component
financed successful overseas study tours and 14 training seminars, resulting in a significant strengthening
of the project team. On balance, this additional component is rated highly satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR was unable to estimate a net present value and/or economic rate of return for the Project because,
at the time of the appraisal, market pricing for housing and labor virtually did not exist to reliably
determine costs and benefits for housing to be constructed under the Project. Besides physical and financial
benefits, the SAR expected efficiency increases in the delivery and management of housing and social
benefits delivery. Owing to the successful transfer of housing ownership and management from enterprises
to highly specialized agencies outside the scope of the enterprises during the implementation phase of the
Project, and recognizing the positive impact the Project had in these efforts, efficiency gains were indeed
realized as predicted by the SAR. Similarly, the Project yielded economic benefits from social security
pooling by relieving the enterprises from individual administration if it can be assumed that the new
specialized agencies are operated efficiently. Undoubtedly, the employees enjoy transferability of their
benefits and increased security. However, calculations of such incremental benefits are beyond the scope
of this report.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return (FRR) or other financial indicators were not estimated at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Project had a significant institutional development impact on the structure, procedures, and
management of housing in China.


The HMCs created under this Project dramatically altered the way worker housing was managed, financed
and allocated. This allowed enterprises to divest themselves of direct responsibilities to provide and
manage housing for their employees. HMCs were the first in China to be organized as joint stock
companies with a formal structure and procedures similar to international models for public companies. In
fact, the HMC charters have been established on the basis of guidelines which, with minor modifications,
were adapted to the Company Law of 1993.


The technical assistance component played a relatively minor role in building capacities of the PFIs and the
municipal HROs, which developed mainly through implementation practices and through their own staff
training. In particular, the China Construction Bank and the Industrial and Commercial Bank, the two
participating financial intermediaries in the Project, having gained knowledge and skills through the Project,
have become the leading residential mortgage lending institutions in the country. However, the Project's
TA provided key support for the development of the municipal social security administration. The central


                                                      - 11 -

government ministries also benefited from the Project, primarily from improvements to their information
systems and training. Most agencies involved in the Project had some of their staff participate in training
and study tours offered by the Project. As market-based housing and pooling of social security were
relatively novel and barely tested concepts in China in the early 1990s, the responsible municipal and state
organizations benefited from the knowledge, experience and program management brought in by
international and domestic consultancies. The Chengdu PMO, for instance, greatly valued the necessity
and importance of international consultancy, despite their initial apprehension in the mid-1990s. The
Project also had a strong and beneficial impact on the institutional development of local banks as they
developed their mortgage finance business.


On account of numerous studies carried out under the Project on such topics as property rights, legal
framework, and condominium regulations, the Project helped participating cities establish a set of
institutions fundamental to the formation of a housing market. Each city developed model condominium
regulations and management agreements, which were then incorporated into local regulations and
appropriate contract documents. Procedures for eviction and foreclosure were also drawn up and
subsequently adopted as municipal regulations. Already at the preparation stage of the Project, the TA
helped write and strengthen municipal regulations and improve PFIs' internal rules for loan appraisal and
securing mortgages.


As a result of the additional Liaoning social security component, the computerization of the formerly
manual systems had a profound impact on the accuracy and efficiency of the information network within
the province. Operational procedures could be streamlined, benefiting clients. Moreover, statistical data
could then be utilized for timely analysis and program evaluations. In this context, the urban social safety
net (dibao) programs can be cited as one of the major beneficiaries of this project component.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The Project's success and the positive reception by the government greatly contributed to the rapid growth
and liberalization of the Chinese economy and facilitated the continued and rapid transition of the economic
structure to market mechanisms and the labor and capital mobility, which was the focus of the Project.
The same process, which happened far sooner and more rapidly in Yantai, was the main reason that the
municipality withdrew from the housing part of the Project.

The 1997-1998 East Asian financial crisis had a deleterious impact on several neighboring countries as
well as on China's exports and foreign investments. In order to maintain steady economic expansion, a
series of proactive monetary and fiscal policies were adopted to boost domestic demand and stimulate
economic growth. Housing reform thus hurriedly rose to the peak of the policy agenda of the central
government and was chosen to become one of the top drivers of domestic growth.

The long delay and then failure of a bilateral agency to support the large part of housing TA, as described
in Section 4.2, made it difficult to carry out the TA when needed, and resulted in the fragmented and only
partial implementation of the component.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delay by the State Planning Commission to give permission to the participating banks for counterpart



                                                     - 12 -

financing in CY95 and 96. As the State Investment Plans did not provide a quota for PFIs to extend loans,
the housing supply for workers of the participating enterprises was effectively blocked for two years. The
critical long-standing obstacle was removed in April 1997 allowing project implementation to proceed
again at a reasonable pace. This delay was partly due to an overheating of the real estate market during
1994-1995.

Push for housing construction, subsidies, and savings. Considering housing construction as a key
industry with high multiplier effects, a large part of the central and local governments sought to maintain
high levels of housing investment. This was apparently a main concern regarding the strategy to divorce
housing responsibility from enterprises. Thus, the new housing policy announced in 1998 in the midst of a
threatening recession in the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis, had to be implemented with a large dose
of subsidies for housing construction and suppressed interest rates through expansion of the Housing
Provident Fund, a forced savings scheme.

Financial weakness of poorly performing SOEs, exacerbated by the economic slowdown, also made it
difficult to carry out wage reform associated with housing reform. As a result, a combination of large
subsidies and the delay in housing and wage adjustments had to be accommodated. These steps resulted in
great dissatisfaction of employees participating in the Project as they resented the lack of opportunity to
buy housing at deep discounts (as much as 90%). Different project municipalities met this challenge in
different ways using varying combinations of provisions to access discounted housing finance through
participation in the Housing Provident Fund and discounted housing purchase under the Economy Housing
Scheme (publicly subsidized new housing construction for sale).

More competitive financing sources increasingly available. In 1998, the central bank in China, the
People's Bank of China (PBC), stopped credit quota regulation of commercial banks and replaced it with
asset-liability management. PBC repeatedly reduced interest rates and expanded mortgage lending from
trial cities to all state and commercial banks across the country. Consequently, the low domestic interest
rates in the late 1990s had the most significant impact on the financial progress of the Project.
Intermediaries (municipal finance bureaus or participating banks) were reluctant to on-lend the Bank loan
in RMB without sufficient premiums for exchange risks, but such premiums made the final rates
significantly higher than comparable domestic bank rates.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Delay but high quality of consultant work on social security. Despite reluctance early in project
implementation, the MOLSS as well as the cities acknowledge the high quality of advice provided by the
consultant team led by the Australian Department of Family Services. The Borrower attests that the
experience and knowledge obtained through the consultancy and during the study tours remain a valid
source of inspiration that will sustain continued efforts to build and support a robust social security safety
net.

Lack of satisfactory staffing of the Central Coordination Group. The CCG, consisting of officials of
participating ministries and banks, was established during preparation to provide national policy support
and coordination for the Project, and in the beginning made critical contributions to successful preparation.
However, CCG did not function effectively during implementation due to (a) the inability of most of the
office staff, deputized from other agencies, to actually devote sufficient time to the Project; (b) delays in
providing adequate office facilities; and (c) turnover and shifting priorities of the overseeing organizations.
This resulted in the delay of TA and procurement activities and postponed timely resolution of policy
issues, such as credit allocation and tax exemption.




                                                      - 13 -

Weak support by the Yantai government for HMCs to keep this Project competitive after the 1998
housing reform. The frequent changes in the leadership of the project office and its inability to adapt to the
new policy environment led to slow project implementation and serious dissatisfaction by the other project
participants. In addition, Chengdu and Yantai municipalities at one time imposed local business and
income taxes on the HMCs thus affecting competitiveness.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Despite repeated requests for data, the Borrower failed to provide total project costs, finance and
procurement information to the Bank. The data below is therefore estimated based on disbursement figures
and other information available.

The total cost of the Project at completion is estimated at US$505.8 million or about 53.2 percent of the
appraisal estimate of US$950.0 million. The Bank's actual disbursements amounted to US$266 million, or
76% of the appraised IBRD/IDA contribution to the Project. Bank financing consisted of IBRD
disbursements of US$191.9 million and IDA disbursements of SDR 51.0 million (US$74.0 million
equivalent). There were four Loan cancellations totaling US$83.1 million and two IDA cancellations
amounting to SDR 2.1 million (US$3.0 million equivalent). Compared to appraisal estimates, only 53.2%
of the housing component was disbursed. Actual disbursement for the TA and training component also
remained well below original estimates at 56.5%.

The largest cancellation, of US$30.4 million, occurred in 2000 when Yantai dropped out of the Project.
US$20 million were cancelled in 1998 at the behest of SPC since the city of Guanghan was excluded from
the Project for failing to meet negotiations conditions and the agency did not agree with any reallocation of
the respective funds. Ningbo cancelled about US$7.0 million in 2003. Following Loan/Credit closure,
undisbursed funds of US$28.7 million were also cancelled.

It seems the experimental reform strategy espoused by the Project, confronted by rapid economic growth,
legislative decisions especially insofar as enterprises and homeownership were concerned, and
developments in the financial markets which markedly reduced the attractiveness of mortgage loan
borrowing under the Project, diminished the relevance of the Project in the project cities as they sought and
found alternatives to establish market-based housing systems. Disbursements could have been much higher
if the start-up of the Project would have kept pace with the original expectations when a dire need existed
for bridge financing for housing reform after the HMCs were put into operation. The delay caused by SPC
to grant permission for counterpart financing to the participating banks by omitting the needed credit quota
in the State annual credit plans, basically blocking the housing component until 1998 and the refusal of
some of the local governments to provide adequate support to the HMCs, had a deleterious effect on the
progress of the Project in its early stages, including threats by participating enterprises to quit the project
scheme when virtually no construction was taking place to house new workers.

Due to substantial price drops in IT equipment combined with devaluation of the U.S. dollar, the actual
Bank funding for the additional Liaoning component amounted to US$2.4 million or 60% of the expected
amount. The unused balance was cancelled.




                                                      - 14 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the housing component of the Project is considered likely for the following reasons:
First, funds under the housing component are channeled through the PFIs to the municipal HMCs, both
institutions with by now solid structures, procedures and management in real estate, housing finance and, in
particular, mortgage lending. Legal underpinnings have been strengthened to assure asset management in
such areas as property security and rights, property management and maintenance, and condominium
regulations. Secondly, because of the State Council as well as the municipal authorities' commitment to
ensuring that adequate housing remains available for workers and housing reform, the highest priority is
accorded to the proper maintenance of the existing housing stock and to the construction of new housing for
the additional work force in the rapidly growing project cities. Increasingly, rental rates for apartments are
allowed to be adjusted to eventually cover all costs plus a modest return on investment. HMCs are
invariably financially sound and technically effective, a good foundation for long-term viability of the
housing stock under their control.


Social security systems are by now well underway and expanding throughout the country. The project
cities have gone even beyond the original project scope (pensions, unemployment insurance, and health
insurance) to include maternity benefits, work injury insurance, and the like. MOL and the project cities
are confident that the social security reforms in the cities as well as at the central government level will be
further deepened, thanks to institutional strengthening and capacity building supported under the technical
assistance and training component of the Project.

The pilot social security component in Liaoning Province pioneered modern information technology for the
benefit of the management of social benefits in the province. The provincial government has continued
investing in technology infrastructure in line with national guidelines ensuring long-term dependence of
hardware and software systems.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No additional transition arrangements to regular operations are necessary as HMCs, the main beneficiaries
of the mortgage loan funds under the Project, operate as independent companies under normal management
control and government oversight. Results from the considerable efforts expended during project
implementation to provide HMCs with management support and training to ensure its future operational
effectiveness and financial viability reportedly have paid off handsomely.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in the lending phase of the Project, including identification, preparation and appraisal, is
rated satisfactory. The skill mix and resources used for the preparation and supervision of the Project are
given in Annex 4.

As discussed in Section 3.1, project identification was based on a series of comprehensive sectoral studies
and was consistent with both the Bank Group's CAS for China and the policy objectives of the
Government. For the whole lending phase, the Bank assigned a qualified team to the Project with an
appropriate skill mix. Because of the experimental nature of the Project, extensive, constructive, but at


                                                      - 15 -

times heated discussions between the Bank and the Government ensued about the conceptual changes in the
housing reforms which should be pursued by the Project. At various times, very senior State and
provincial government officials debated with senior Bank managers about the broad and ambitious
ramifications the Project could have on the national housing and social security systems.

Project appraisal was carried out satisfactorily by an experienced appraisal team, comprised of experts in
all pertinent fields. The appraisal team produced a comprehensive and excellent SAR, with a good
assessment of project risks. Appraisal of the Liaoning component was also satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during project supervision is rated unsatisfactory. The project supervision was
evaluated by QAG which rated it "2" or satisfactory. The Project was difficult to supervise due to the
extensive scope of expertise involved, and the difficulties caused by policy dissension within the
government. The Bank team therefore focused its efforts on easing the national-level impediments,
monitoring the project progress and changes in the project environment, and on helping to ensure high
quality consultant input financed under the loan or bilateral grants. Although the SAR expected high levels
of supervision input, this was not possible to sustain due to constrained budgets and geographic
distance-related factors which inhibited close supervision. Due to the extensive delays and extensions,
some of the municipalities completed their project part early and the project management offices were
dissolved. The Bank team failed to take steps to collect full completion information before it became
difficult in those cities.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The Project benefited from excellent
sector work, valuable dialogue with the Government, and good project preparation, but the supervision was
relatively weak and could not always respond in a timely manner to changes in the environment and
schedules.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation as satisfactory. The Government had been searching for
an effective strategy for providing housing and social security housing outside the enterprise system since
the mid-1980s. The Government welcomed the constructive dialogue with the Bank concerning alternative
strategies to establish a market-based system of housing provision and subsequently participated actively in
project identification. The participating municipal governments supported the extensive efforts to prepare a
Bank-funded project which involved the establishment of new institutions, procedures and regulations as
well as significant modifications to existing ones. As part of this exercise, critical reform actions by the
cities were required prior to negotiations, including the formal establishment of HMCs in each of the
project cities, transfer of housing stock from the participating enterprises to the HMCs, and a host of tough
policy and regulatory changes. In addition, the central government took an active interest in and made a
strong commitment to the Project permitting considerable modifications to existing laws and regulations to
accommodate the Project. In addition, it created specifically for this Project a government-formed
coordinating group, the CCG, in which the major relevant ministries were represented, to provide necessary
support and oversight of project progress.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
This ICR rates the government implementation performance moderately satisfactory. But a question
remained during implementation as to the extent of ownership of the Project on the part of the Chinese
government, due to unresolved differences of opinion in various parts of the government. This was



                                                     - 16 -

demonstrated by the failure of SPC to authorize counterpart financing for about three years, the early
withdrawal by the Yantai municipality, and the almost complete lack of participation by the main sector
agency, Ministry of Construction, until its reorganization in 1999. The CCG, being an ad-hoc set-up, was
not able to carry out its coordinating and overseeing role during implementation, hampering the policy
coordination as well as dissemination and demonstration effects. This also left the Project without a central
depository for the accumulation of necessary project data, such as for beneficiaries, for the assessment of
overall project impact on both the housing and the technical assistance/training, and for land acquisition
and resettlement information.

Despite the delay in providing adequate counterpart funds, and the inaction of certain local governments
during the drastic shift in policy direction, on balance, the municipal governments, except that of Yantai
committed to the project objectives and carried out the implementation as expected. This is particularly
noteworthy, given the complexity and challenges facing the Project throughout the past dozen years.

Not unlike many other projects in China, the various implementation agencies grappled with what they
considered overly burdensome Bank procurement procedures. Particularly under the Liaoning component,
they expressed dissatisfaction with the lengthy Bank requirements for the time-sensitive purchase of
computer equipment. Even so, the authorities in Liaoning Province remained strongly committed to the
goals of the Project throughout the preparatory and implementation phases of the Liaoning pilot social
security component, even setting up a special office to ensure the successful implementation and
coordination at the provincial level which in turn was supported by project implementation units at the
municipal level.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Given the changing landscape of national housing policy, the implementation agencies of participating
municipalities performed satisfactorily, overcoming various and serious difficulties, especially early in
implementation. The PMOs, particularly in Chengdu and Ningbo, showed sound commitment to the
success of the Project. The support provided to the Project at the national level, however, is rated
unsatisfactory.

Beijing is a major administrative center with a higher proportion of government organizations that relied
primarily on public housing (60% of urban housing stock was controlled by Ministries and national level
institutions). Due to entrenched interests in the old public housing system, the time required for the reform
to take full effect was quite long. This aspect was demonstrated by the implementation both under this
Project and under nation-wide housing reforms outside this Project. The difficult and complex context for
implementation, along with the SARS outbreak in 2003, were the reasons for the second loan extension to
December 31, 2004.

At the other end of the spectrum is the city of Ningbo with its traditionally strong and dynamic market
orientation. In fact, the city was more advanced in its enterprise reform than any other participating city.
At the project outset, nearly 1,000 enterprises had already been transformed into joint stock companies,
limited liability companies, enjoying a well-defined separation of ownership and management rights and
obligations.

Concerning Chengdu, the second largest among the participating cities, its government and PMO have
demonstrated continued commitment to the Project. Its earlier home-grown innovative reform efforts in
both housing and social security made the city the most receptive to the Bank's reform model. Most
importantly, the professionalism and hard work on the part of the PMO staff made a significantly positive
impact on the project outcome.


                                                      - 17 -

Yantai was thought to possess many advantages conducive to implementing a successful project, such as
having been engaged by the State Council as a prior pilot city for a housing reform; innovative methods
tested by the Yantai Housing Savings Bank; and its relatively small size. Nevertheless, the inability of its
project leadership to adapt to the stipulated change of the housing system to the private ownership model
led to Yantai's withdrawal.

For the additional Liaoning component, the project management office, set up within the Social Security
Division of the Liaoning Provincial Finance Bureau, recorded remarkable success in efficiently and
effectively procuring the optimal technology equipment for the social benefit programs and setting up
commensurate training programs. Their professionalism extended to the administration and evaluation of
the 11 program studies carried out by the Project.

While the four project cities cannot be held equally responsible for the more than three year implementation
delay requiring three one-year extensions (Original closing date: 6-30-2001; First Extension: to
12-31-2002; Second Extension: to 12-31-2003; Third Extension: to 12-31-2004), serious questions
remain as to whether the municipal authorities and project agencies made sufficient efforts to have the
Loan/Credit restructured to make its terms been more competitive with alternative housing financing
sources. This inaction ultimately led to the substantial underutilization of the Loan proceeds and the
cancellation of US$86 million in Loan and Credit funds.

The staff appraisal exercise developed an excellent catalogue of project monitors and indicators (SAR
Annex 13) to accurately evaluate project progress and performance. However, project delays and the rapid
reforms taking place in China rendered many of the original parameters moot. Some of the original key
indicators were revised and further developed, and subsequently used in overall project and reform
monitoring.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above assessments, overall Borrower performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. With
the assistance of the Project, the housing sector in China has made remarkable progress. However, the
implementation of the physical management of the Project intermittently suffered from lack of adequate
support. Particularly, the performance of a part of the central government and the Yantai municipal
government is considered unsatisfactory. This, however, may have to be considered an inevitable risk of
experimenting with controversial and ambitious reform models. In contrast, three of the four large
municipalities carried out the core reform actions in a remarkably satisfactory fashion in the face of great
political and institutional difficulties.

8. Lessons Learned

The Project yielded five significant lessons.

1.       Project Design. Projects aiming at significant reforms have to balance a number of conflicting
values ­ innovation versus broad acceptance of the status quo, persistence versus reluctant adaptation to
changing circumstances and information, and strategic reform versus technical reasoning. The reviewed
Project provides nuanced lessons on these accounts ­ succeeding well in certain aspects and failing in
others. While it is difficult to assess successes and failures even in hindsight, it is important that these
tradeoffs be considered carefully and provisions made to modify the design when warranted which may
even result in two or a series of follow-up projects rather than addressing all issues in one single, overly
ambitious project.



                                                     - 18 -

2.       Project Ownership and Institutional Arrangements. The slow start and implementation of the
Project indicate an apparent lack of full ownership on the part of the Government. Reform-oriented
projects such as this require genuine Government buy-in and a strong institutional set-up for
implementation. The absence of the key central player in the housing reform, Housing Systems Reform
Office, and the described weakness of CCG in project implementation proved to be crucial obstacles to an
otherwise superior project performance. Besides confirming the importance of full project ownership, this
also suggests that experimental projects must be prepared to embrace dissension and resulting difficulties.

3.       Supervision. This pilot program was one of the most far-reaching and innovative Bank projects
initiated in China at the time. Given its bold nature and the fact that it ran parallel with other experiments
in China (most notably Shanghai), intense and timely monitoring and evaluation of the Project against
national reforms during implementation should have been more rigorously pursued. Moreover, a project of
this type needs to receive extraordinary management support from both the Borrower and the Bank.
.
4.       Importance of Strong Human Resources. Differences in project impact and implementation
results between project cities can be a valuable tool in the interpretation and assessment of experimental
project models as used in this Project. A comparative study of these differences would demonstrate
convincingly that successful implementation of a pilot project, as shown in this case, requires strong
political leadership, the skillful capacity and commitment of PMOs, the ability to harness and respond
nimbly to other ongoing reforms and market conditions, diligent supervision, and smooth communication
between the Bank and the Borrower.

5.       Central Oversight. As Liaoning was selected to pilot certain aspects of the social security
reforms, it would have been desirable to have the national government and possibly other provinces more
closely involved in the preparation and evaluation of the various studies, as well as in the performance of
the automation exercise of a number of important social benefits. The demonstration effect was less than
one could expect in this case primarily because of CCG's poor overall oversight. Future projects should
assist in setting up organizational structures which remain viable throughout project implementation in
order to maximize their demonstration effect throughout the country and to encourage policy evaluation and
legislative changes at the highest national level.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(a)      Borrower/implementing agency:
Ningbo and Chengdu submitted comments on the first draft of this report.

Ningbo:
"After review by all concerned staff in our office, we think the draft ICR is a pretty good piece. We have
only two comments for your revision of the draft ICR:

         a. In table 2 of the post review chapter, it's stated that no more economic houses were built in
Ningbo. We suggest you to change it to "Since 2003, Ningbo resumed construction of economic houses."

         b. The expenditure for social security component was not big; however, it played an important role
and had great impact on pension, medical care, employment and community construction. We could record
this impact to support the above influence. If you agree with our thoughts, we would like to fill out the
table if you can send the format to us."



                                                       - 19 -

Chengdu:
"The ICR of the Chinese Enterprise Housing and Social Security Reform Project (Project for short) written
by the urban economist Ms. Zhang Yan has reached us. Chengdu PMO and project implement units read it
carefully and had sufficient discussion before coming to the common understanding:

         We'd like to express our gratitude for your strong affirmation of our achievements and experience.
We think the evaluation to the project implementation in Chengdu, even in China, is practical and realistic,
objective and pertinent. The original target of the Project has basically been achieved.
         Apart from the correct guiding of Chengdu municipal government, and the positive and earnest
attitude of Chengdu PMO and implement units, the achievements and experienced have inseparable relation
with the support and supervising of experts from the Bank.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                     - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
              Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Housing units managed or sold by          Not estimated in ISR                 Beijing: 5.82
Housing Management Companies (HMC).                                               Chengdu: 4.7m
                                                                                  Ningbo: 2.4m
                                                                                  Yantai: 0.27m

2. Workers covered under unified municipal Not estimated in ISR                   (a) 99%
(a) pension pools; (b) major medial insurance                                     (b) N/A
pools, (c) Unemployment issurance pools,                                          (c) N/A
number and % of city total.




Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
              Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Project Coverage                             Total: 1,650
  participating workers '000
  targeted: Beijing: 750                                                          Beijing: N/A
         Chengdu: 350                                                             Chengdu: 427
         Ningbo: 200                                                              Ningbo: 250
         Yantai: 250                                                              Yantai: N/A


Number of HMCs                               17                                   17

  Targeted: Beijing: 10                                                           Beijing: 8
         Chengdu: 6                                                               Chengdu: 5
         Ningbo: 2                                                                Ningbo: 3
         Yantai: 4                                                                Yantai: 1




1End of project

                             Project Housing Privatized in the Four Project Cities by 2000
Project Cities:                    Beijing               Chengdu              Ningbo                 Yantai **
Total construction area of                  130                   26.64               11.14                  13.44
housing (in million m2)
Total construction area * (in               110                   24.72                7.8                   12.93
million m3)
Total construction area sold                 93                   22.49                6.63                  11.43
(in million m2)
Equivalent number of units               1,500,000               450,000            112,000                 179,000
% of Privatized Welfare                     85%                    91%                 85%                    88%
Housing in relation to total
sellable construction area
*Some housing is not sellable, for instance, dilapidated housing, HMC's housing and housing of historical and
cultural interest
**It is reported that in Yantai, about 95% of the welfare housing had been sold by the end 2001.




                                                               - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                              US$ million      US$ million
Housing Financed Partly by the Project                           925.00            491.67            53
TA and Training                                                   19.70             14.13            72
     in Social Security
     in Housing and Housing Finance

Total Baseline Cost                                              944.70            505.80
 Physical Contingencies                                            5.30              0.00             0
 Price Contingencies                                                                 0.00             0
                          Total Project Costs                    950.00            505.80
                   Total Financing Required                      950.00            505.80
Actual/latest estimates were calculated according to the disbursement as of May 2005.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB                  2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                              0.00            545.00          380.00          0.00       925.00
                                     (0.00)          (223.30)        (102.20)        (0.00)     (325.50)
2. Goods                              7.20             1.00            1.10           0.00        9.30
                                     (7.10)           (0.70)          (0.90)         (0.00)      (8.70)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00           15.80           0.00       15.80
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (15.80)        (0.00)     (15.80)
N.A.                                  0.00             0.00            0.00           0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
N.A.                                  0.00             0.00            0.00           0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
N.A.                                  0.00             0.00            0.00           0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                              7.20            546.00          396.90          0.00       950.10
                                     (7.10)          (224.00)        (118.90)        (0.00)     (350.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                   2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                     Other
1. Works                              0.00            491.67           0.00          0.00       491.67
                                     (0.00)          (226.66)         (0.00)         (0.00)    (226.66)
2. Goods                              6.60             0.00            0.00          0.00        6.60
                                     (6.60)           (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)     (6.60)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00            7.53          0.00        7.53
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (7.53)         (0.00)     (7.53)


                                                   - 22 -

N.A.                                   0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
N.A.                                   0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
N.A.                                   0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  Total                                6.60             491.67              7.53             0.00             505.80
                                      (6.60)            (226.66)           (7.53)            (0.00)          (240.79)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                 Financing Plan at Appraisal and Actual (US$million equivalent)

                                          Appraisal      Percentage         Actual     Percentage
             Bank (IDA and IBRD)               350           37%               266        53%
             Borrower                          600           63%               240        47%
             Total                             950          100%               506       100%




                                                      - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              records no longer
              available


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal:                 8    SR. URBAN
              Oct/Nov 1993                    ECONOMIST/TTL (1);
                                              COUNSEL (1);
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                              (1); ECONOMISTS (2);
                                              LEGAL CONSULTANT (1);
                                              HOUSING SPECIALIST
                                              (1);
                                              RESETTLEMENT/PLANN
                                              ER (1)


 Supervision

              09/30/1994                 4    ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL         S              HS
                                              ANALYST (1); URBAN
                                              ECONOMIST (1); PLANNER
                                              (1)
              05/03/1995                 2    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           S              HS
                                              URBAN ECONOMIST (1)
              11/09/1995                 3    SECTOR ECONOMIST (1);            S               S
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                              URBAN ECONOMIST (1)
              07/11/1997                 2    ECONOMIST (1);                   S              HS
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              05/29/1998                 5    ECON/MISSION LEADER (1);         S              HS
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                              TA OFFICER (1); FINANCIAL
                                              ANALYST (1); ECONOMIST
                                              (1)
              11/15/1998                 4    MISSION LEADER (1);              S              HS
                                              HOUSING FINANCE (1);
                                              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                              (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              12/23/1999                 2    ECONOMIST (2)                    S               S
              06/29/2001                 6    ECONOMIST/TTL (1);               S               S
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST (2);
                                              DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                              HOUSING SPECIALIST (1);
                                              HOUSING ECONOMIST (1)
              11/22/2002                 4    ECONOMICS (1); SOCIAL            S               S



                                               - 25 -

                                                 SECURITY (1); OPERATIONS
                                                 (1); FINANCE (1)
               01/30/2003                   3    SOCIAL SECURITY (2);              S    S
                                                 OPERATIONS (1)
               11/04/2003                   3    ECONOMIST, TTL (1);               S    S
                                                 TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                                 SR ECONOMIST (1)


 ICR
               10/2004                      2     YOUNG PROFESSIONAL,
                                                  CONSULTANT



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                266.0                       1,090.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      71.8                         284.5
  Supervision                               190.6                         752.8
  ICR                                        15.0                           50.0
  Total                                     543.4                       2,177.6
Regional direct cost mark-up of 25% applied up to and including FY99.




                                                 - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

List of Documents
1.      Chengdu Project Completion Report (Housing and Social Security), Chengdu PMO, 2004
2.      Ningbo Project Completion Report (Housing and Social Security), Ningbo PMO, 2004
3.      Yantai Project Completion Report (Social Security Component), Yantai PMO, 2004
4.      Beijing Project Completion Report (Social Security Component), Beijing PMO, 2004
5.      Collection of Legal and Regulatory Documents, Chengdu PMO, 1994
6.      Aide-memoires since 1992
7.      EASUR, the World Bank. Housing China: Housing Reform Update. Implementation of the
Bank-financed Housing Reform Model and the 1998 Housing Policy, 15 June 2002.




                                                 - 29 -

- 30 -

