Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2642 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Enterprise Housing and Social Security Reform Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 16, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2642 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1994, between  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to two hundred seventy-five million dollars 
($275,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the credit provided for in this Agreement (the Credit) be disbursed on 
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds 
of the Loan provided for in the Loan  Agreement are made; and
Page  2
(D)
The Participating Municipalities (as defined in Section 1.02(t) of this 
Agreement) will carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, or cause said Parts to 
be carried out, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to the Participating Municipalities part of the proceeds 
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and part of the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and the Participating Municipalities;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beijing" means the Borrower's Municipality of Beijing. 
 
(b)
"Beijing Special Account" means the special account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement.
(c)
"Beneficiary" means any household or HMC to whom or to which a PFI 
proposes to make or has made a Housing Sub-loan.
(d)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(e)
"Central Coordinating Group" means the central coordinating group 
referred to in Section 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(f)
"Central Special Account" means the special account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) (v) of this Agreement.
(g)
"Chengdu" means the Municipality of Chengdu, in the  Borrower's Province 
of Sichuan.
(h)
"Chengdu Special Account" means the special account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
(i)
"Fiscal Year"  means a calendar year commencing on January 1 and ending 
on December 31.
(j)
"HMC" means any company established under the laws of the Borrower as a 
joint stock company and engaged in the business of managing residential structures.
(k)
"Housing Development Project" means a specific development project under 
Part A(3), B(3), C(3) or D(3) of the Project to be carried out by a Beneficiary 
utilizing the proceeds of a Housing Sub-loan.
(l)
"Housing Loan Programs" means, collectively, Parts A(3), B(3), C(3) and 
D(3) of the Project.
(m)
"Housing Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PFI, in 
part out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or of the Loan made available to said PFI 
by a Participating Municipality under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to a Beneficiary 
Page  3
for a Housing Development Project.
(n)
"Housing System Reform Programs" means, collectively, the programs to be 
carried out by the Participating Municipalities under Parts A(1), B(1), C(1) and D(1) 
of the Project; and "its respective Housing System Reform Program" means, in respect 
of: (i) Beijing, Part A(1) of the Project; (ii) Chengdu, Part B(1) thereof; (iii) 
Ningbo, Part C(1) thereof; and (iv) Yantai, Part D(1) thereof.
(o)
"Institutional Development Project" means a program under Part A(4), 
B(4), C(4) or D(4) of the Project to be carried out by a PFI utilizing the proceeds of 
a Subsidiary Loan.
(p)
"its respective Part of the Project" means, in respect of: (i) Beijing, 
Part A of the Project; (ii) Chengdu, Part B thereof; (iii) Ningbo, Part C thereof; and 
(iv) Yantai, Part D thereof.
(q)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(r)
"Ningbo" means the Municipality of Ningbo, in the Borrower's Province of 
Zhejiang.
(s)
"Ningbo Special Account" means the special account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
(t)
"Participating Municipalities" means, collectively, Beijing, Chengdu, 
Ningbo and Yantai; and "Participating Municipality" means any of the Participating 
Municipalities.
(u)
"PFI" means any banking institution with which a Participating 
Municipality has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(v)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and the Participating Municipalities of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Project Agreement.
(w)
"Social Security System Reform Programs" means, collectively, the 
programs to be carried out by the Participating Municipalities under Parts A(2), B(2), 
C(2) and D(2) of the Project; and "its respective Social Security System Reform 
Program" means, in respect of: (i) Beijing, Part A(2) of the Project; (ii) Chengdu, 
Part B(2) thereof; (iii) Ningbo, Part C(2) thereof; and (iv) Yantai, Part D(2) 
thereof.
(x)
"Special Accounts" means, collectively, the Beijing Special Account, the 
Chengdu Special Account, the Ningbo Special Account, the Yantai Special Account and 
the Central Special Account; and "Special Account" means any of the Special Accounts.
(y)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement to be entered into 
between a Participating Municipality and a PFI pursuant to Part D.1 of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means 
any loan provided under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(z)
"Yantai" means the Municipality of Yantai, in the Borrower's Province of 
Shandong.
(aa)
"Yantai Special Account" means the special account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(iv) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty-three million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 53,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of 
withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Housing Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost 
of housing, goods and services required for the Housing Development Project in respect 
of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project (other than the Housing Loan 
Programs) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars the following five 
special accounts, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment: (i) one for the purposes of Part A of the Project; 
(ii) one for the purposes of Part B thereof; (iii) one for the purposes of Part C 
thereof; (iv) one for the purposes of Part D thereof; and (v) one for the purposes of 
Part E thereof. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.  
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 1 and July 1 commencing January 1, 2005 and ending July 1, 2029. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 1, 2014 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
Page  5
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part E of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative and 
financial practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for 
said Part of the Project; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan 
Agreement, shall cause each Participating 
Municipality to perform 
all of its respective obligations set forth in the Project 
Agreement, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable 
said Participating Municipality to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to each Participating Municipality an 
amount of the Credit and an amount of the Loan under arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank, which shall include, without limitation, terms whereby:
(i)
the principal amount so made available shall be the equivalent in 
Dollars 
(determined on the date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Credit Account 
or Loan Account or payment 
out of the respective Special Account) of the value of 
the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of 
housing, goods and services required for said Participating 
Municipality's 
respective Part of the Project to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
and/or of the Loan;
 
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover from said Participating Municipality 
the principal 
amount so made available over a period of 20 
years, inclusive of a grace period of 
5 years; and
 
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge interest on the principal amount so made 
available and 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 
a rate equal to 87% of the rate of 
interest applicable from 
time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the 
Loan 
Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Page  6
Borrower shall take the measures set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement in order to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
(a) the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project other than the 
Housing Loan Programs and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and (b) all 
of the goods, works and consultants services required for the Housing Loan Programs, 
regardless of their sources of financing, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that each 
Participating Municipality shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of its respective Part of the Project, pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and 
those for the Special Accounts, for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of any Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
Page  7
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Participating Municipality shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that a Participating Municipality will be able to perform its 
respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower has assigned the staff, referred to in Section 1(b) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of said Section, to 
assist the Central Coordinating Group in the performance of its responsibilities.
(b)
All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by each Participating Municipality and is legally 
binding upon said Participating Municipality in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower, Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Page  8
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Yang Jiechi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Nicholas Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                           Amount of     Amount of
                          the Credit     the Loan
                           Allocated     Allocated
                          (Expressed    (Expressed          % of
                            in SDR       in Dollar      Expenditures
          Category        Equivalent)   Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)     Items for
        Part A of
        the Project:
        (a) Housing        23,920,000   123,950,000    65% of amounts
            Sub-loans                                  paid prior to
                                                       January 1, 1997;
Page  9
                                                       50% of amounts
                                                       paid from
                                                       January 1, 1997
                                                       through December
                                                       31, 1998; and
                                                       40% of amounts
                                                       paid thereafter
        (b) Goods             620,000     3,200,000    100% of foreign
                                                       expenditures,
                                                       100% of local
                                                       expenditures (ex-
                                                       factory cost) and
                                                       70% of local
                                                       expenditures for
                                                       other items
                                                       procured locally
        (c) Consultants'    1,010,000     5,240,000    100%
            services and
            training
(2)     Items for
        Part B of
        the Project:
        (a) Housing        11,090,000    57,420,000    65% of amounts paid
            Sub-loans                                  prior to January 1,
                                                       1997; 50% of amounts
                                                       paid from January 1,
                                                       1997 through December
                                                       31, 1998; and 40% of
                                                       amounts paid
                                                       thereafter
        (b) Goods             370,000     1,910,000    100% of foreign
                                                       expenditures, 100%
                                                       of local expendi-
                                                       tures (ex-factory
                                                      cost) and 70% of
                                                      local expenditures
                                                      for other items
                                                      procured locally
        (c) Consultants'      680,000     3,530,000   100%
            services and
            training
(3)     Items for
        Part C of
        the Project:
        (a) Housing         7,950,000    41,140,000    65% of amounts paid
            Sub-loans                                  prior to January 1,
                                                       1997; 50% of amounts
                                                       paid from January 1,
                                                       1997 through December
                                                       31, 1998; and 40% of
                                                       amounts paid
                                                       thereafter
        (b) Goods           130,000       650,000      100% of foreign
                                                       expenditures, 100%
                                                       of local expendi-
                                                       tures (ex-factory
                                                       cost) and 70% of
                                                       local expenditures
Page  10
                                                       for other items
                                                       procured locally
        (c) Consultants'    270,000     1,430,000      100%
            services and
            training
(4)     Items for
        Part D of
        the Project:
        (a) Housing       6,430,000    33,260,000      65% of amounts paid
            Sub-loans                                  prior to January 1,
                                                       1997; 50% of amounts
                                                       paid from January 1,
                                                       1997 through
                                                       December 31, 1998;
                                                       and 40% of amounts
                                                       paid thereafter
        (b) Goods           140,000       740,000      100% of foreign
                                                       expenditures, 100%
                                                       of local expendi-
                                                       tures (ex-factory
                                                       cost) and 70% of
                                                       local expenditures
                                                       for other items
                                                       procured locally
        (c) Consultants'    260,000     1,360,000      100%
            services and
            training
(5)     Items for
        Part E of
        the Project:
        (a) Goods            70,000       360,000      100% of foreign
                                                       expenditures,
                                                       100% of local
                                                       expenditures (ex-
                                                       factory cost) and
                                                       70% of local
                                                       expenditures for
                                                       other items
                                                       procured locally
        (b) Consultants'    160,000       810,000      100%
            services and
            training
                         __________   ___________
        TOTAL            53,100,000   275,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  11
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 
24,800,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after October 25, 1993;
(b)
under Category (1)(a) unless the Association shall have received evidence 
satisfactory to it that (1) Beijing has entered into Subsidiary Loan Agreements with 
at least two PFIs in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement and (2) said Subsidiary Loan Agreements are legally binding upon the 
parties thereto in accordance with their respective terms;
(c)
under Category (2)(a) unless the Association shall have received evidence 
satisfactory to it that (1) Chengdu has entered into Subsidiary Loan Agreements with 
at least two PFIs in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement and (2) said Subsidiary Loan Agreements are legally binding upon the 
parties thereto in accordance with their respective terms;
(d)
under Category (3)(a) unless the Association shall have received evidence 
satisfactory to it that (1) Ningbo has entered into Subsidiary Loan Agreements with at 
least two PFIs in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement and (2) said Subsidiary Loan Agreements are legally binding upon the 
parties thereto in accordance with their respective terms;
(e)
under Category (4)(a) unless the Association shall have received evidence 
satisfactory to it that (1) Yantai has entered into Subsidiary Loan Agreements with at 
least two PFIs in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement and (2) said Subsidiary Loan Agreements are legally binding upon the 
parties thereto in accordance with their respective terms; and
(f)
in respect of a Housing Sub-loan for a Housing Development Project unless 
said Housing Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and Loan Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under (a) 
contracts for goods costing less than $200,000 equivalent, (b) contracts for the 
services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent, (c) contracts for 
the services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent, (d) 
contracts for training and (e) contracts for Housing Development Projects in respect 
of which Housing Sub-loans have been made (other than contracts for works equal to or 
greater than $7,500,000 equivalent and contracts for goods equal to or greater than 
$200,000 equivalent), under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in the (1)  development, on a pilot 
basis in the Participating Municipalities, of an efficient and effective market-based 
housing system and social safety net designed to divest enterprises of responsibility 
for direct provision and management of housing and social security benefits to their 
employees and thereby achieve enterprise restructuring and (2) strengthening of 
institutional capabilities in respect of housing management and finance and social 
security administration.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Beijing
 
(1)
Housing System Reform Program
 
Carrying out by Beijing of the program of actions and technical assistance 
Page  12
referred to in Part A of the Annex to this Schedule.
(2)
Social Security System Reform Program
 
Carrying out by Beijing of the program of actions and technical assistance 
referred to in Part B of the Annex to this Schedule.
(3)
Housing Loan Program
 
Financing, through the provision of Housing Sub-loans by PFIs to Beneficiaries, 
of housing development projects, described in Part C of the Annex to this Schedule, to 
be carried out in Beijing.
(4)
Institutional Development of PFIs
 
Carrying out by PFIs operating in Beijing, of the programs referred to in Part D 
of the Annex to this Schedule.
Part B:
Chengdu
 
(1)
Housing System Reform Program
 
Carrying out by Chengdu of the program of actions and technical assistance 
referred to in Part A of the Annex to this Schedule.
(2)
Social Security System Reform Program
 
Carrying out by Chengdu of the program of actions and technical assistance 
referred to in Part B of the Annex to this Schedule.
(3)
Housing Loan Program
 
Financing, through the provision of Housing Sub-loans by PFIs to Beneficiaries, 
of housing development projects, described in Part C of the Annex to this Schedule, to 
be carried out in Chengdu.
(4)
Institutional Development of PFIs
 
Carrying out by PFIs operating in Chengdu, of the programs referred to in Part D 
of the Annex to this Schedule.
Part C:
Ningbo
 
(1)
Housing System Reform Program
 
Carrying out by Ningbo of the program of actions and technical assistance 
referred to in Part A of the Annex to this Schedule.
(2)
Social Security System Reform Program
 
Carrying out of the program of actions and technical assistance referred to in 
Part B of the Annex to this Schedule.
(3)
Housing Loan Program
 
Financing, through the provision of Housing Sub-loans by PFIs to Beneficiaries, 
of housing development projects, described in Part C of the Annex to this Schedule, to 
be carried out in Ningbo.
(4)
Institutional Development of PFIs
 
Carrying out by PFIs operating in Ningbo, of the programs referred to in Part D 
of the Annex to this Schedule.
Part D:
Yantai
 
(1)
Housing System Reform Program
Page  13
Carrying out by Yantai of the program of actions and technical assistance 
referred to in Part A of the Annex to this Schedule.
(2)
Social Security System Reform Program
 
Carrying out by Yantai of the program of actions and technical assistance 
referred to in Part B of the Annex to this Schedule.
(3)
Housing Loan Program
 
Financing, through the provision of Housing Sub-loans by PFIs to Beneficiaries, 
of housing development projects, described in Part C of the Annex to this Schedule, to 
be carried out in Yantai.
(4)
Institutional Development of PFIs
 
Carrying out by PFIs operating in Yantai, of the programs referred to in Part D 
of the Annex to this Schedule.
Part E:
Borrower
 
(1)
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the Borrower's institutional 
capabilities in respect of the (a) development of policies relating to social security 
programs and (b) management and financing of
such programs; and provision of training, equipment and materials required therefor.
(2)
Development, on the basis of the results of the Social Security System Reform 
Programs carried out by the Participating Municipalities, of policies for the further 
development of suitable social security programs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 2
Part A:
Housing System Reform Programs
 
Carrying out of a program of actions and technical assistance to:(1) divest 
enterprises operating in the respective Participating Municipality of their 
responsibilities to provide housing facilities for their employees, through the 
transfer to HMCs of the housing assets operated by said enterprises in exchange for 
shares in said HMCs; (2) enable said HMCs to rent and sell housing at market prices; 
(3) adjust the wages of employees of enterprises operating in the respective 
Participating Municipality so  as to enable said employees to pay market prices for 
housing; (4) strengthen the legal and regulatory framework governing the acquisition, 
sale and mortgaging of housing in the respective Participating Municipality, including 
the property registration system; (5) strengthen the respective Participating 
Municipality's institutional capabilities in respect of property valuation and the 
monitoring and regulation of its housing market; and (6) strengthen the institutional 
capabilities of the HMCs  operating in the respective Participating Municipality 
through the development of property management systems and computerized accounting and 
management information systems to be utilized by said HMCs and the development and 
carrying out of training programs for staff of said HMCs; and provision of equipment 
and materials required therefor; all so as to develop an efficient and effective 
market-based housing system.
Part B:
Social Security System Reform Programs
 
Carrying out of a program of actions and technical assistance to develop and 
introduce suitable social security programs in the respective Participating 
Municipality and to strengthen the institutional capabilities of said Participating 
Municipality in respect of the management of said programs, consisting of the:
Page  14
(1)
establishment and/or extension of pension pools and work-related injury 
insurance, unemployment insurance and health insurance programs for all employees of 
enterprises operating in the respective Participating Municipality;
(2)
establishment of benefit and contribution formulae for the programs referred to 
in paragraph (1) of this Part so as to require individual contributions and 
appropriately to link resources and benefits;
(3)
carrying out of studies to develop suitable alternatives for the investment of 
contributions for the programs referred to in paragraph (1) of this Part;
(4)
carrying out of studies to develop suitable programs for the financing of health 
care, including mechanisms to control the costs associated with the provision of 
health care services, and on the basis
thereof, formulation and introduction of suitable health care payment mechanisms and 
cost containment measures so as to improve the efficient provision of health care 
services;
(5)
development and introduction of programs for the retraining and redeployment of 
unemployed workers;
(6)
development and application of management systems for the:  (a) projection of 
the long-term costs of, and resources for, the programs referred to in paragraph (1) 
of this Part; (b) efficient collection of contributions and payment of benefits under 
said programs; (c) monitoring and evaluation of the costs and quality of health care 
services provided; and
(7)
provision of equipment and materials required for said program.
 
Part C:
Housing Development Projects
 
(1)
Purchase by HMCs of residential structures to be utilized for rental purposes;
 
(2)
construction or rehabilitation by HMCs of residential structures to be utilized 
for rental purposes; and
(3)
purchase by households of housing units constructed or purchased by HMCs for 
resale.
Part D:
Institutional Development of PFIs
 
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the management and operations of the 
respective PFI in respect of mortgage financing, consisting of the: (1) development of 
appraisal and loan servicing procedures; (2) carrying outof studies on housing 
finance; (3) development of computerized information
systems; (4) adoption of suitable accounting policies and procedures; and (5) 
provision of equipment, materials and training required therefor.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, in respect of:  (i) the Beijing 
Special Account, Category (1); (ii) the Chengdu Special Account, Category (2); (iii) 
the Ningbo Special Account, Category (3); (iv) the Yantai Special Account, Category 
(4); and (v) the Central Special Account, Category (5);
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of housing, goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $9,000,000 
in respect of the Beijing Special Account, $4,000,000 in respect of the Chengdu 
Page  15
Special Account, $3,300,000 in respect of the Ningbo Special Account, $2,800,000 in 
respect of the Yantai Special Account and $400,000 in respect of the Central Special 
Account, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited 
into the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation for said 
Special Account and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be 
made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of said Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf  of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account or the Loan Account and deposit in said Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into said 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and 
deposit into 
said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of said 
Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Category for the Part of the Project for which said Special Account was 
established, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions 
with respect to said Part of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the respective Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Category for 
said Part of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  16
remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into said Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or  made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all  foreign currency components and the other to 
the local currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken 
into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the relevant 
standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the 
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project, shall 
be used.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, 
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with 
the Association shall be used.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  17
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Local Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods (other than goods for Housing Development Projects) estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
Goods for Housing Development Projects, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
3.
Civil works for Housing Development Projects shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Shopping
4.
Goods (other than goods for Housing Development Projects) estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$1,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.
Goods for Housing Development Projects estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts: 
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for (i) civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $7,500,000 or more and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of said Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c)
The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants:  
(A) whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
Page  18
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-based assignments, the such consultants shall be employed under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms agreed with the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of firms, (c) assignments 
of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Project Implementation Measures
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement.
1.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a central 
coordinating group, with membership, terms of reference and resources satisfactory to 
the Association, to be responsible for (1) coordinating the carrying out of Part E of 
the Project and providing overall coordination of Project implementation, (2) 
providing policy guidance to the Participating Municipalities, PFIs and Beneficiaries 
in the carrying out of the Project, (3) monitoring and evaluating the impact of the 
Housing Reform System Programs and Social Security System Reform Programs carried out 
by the Participating Municipalities and (4) exchanging views with the Participating 
Municipalities on the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities; and
(b)
to this end, assign staff with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference and in numbers, all acceptable to the Association, to assist the Central 
Coordinating Group in the performance of its responsibilities.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that the activities under the Housing System Reform 
Programs, the Social Security System Reform Programs, and Parts A(4), B(4), C(4) and 
D(4) of the Project shall be carried out under arrangements, satisfactory to the 
Association, pursuant to which the Borrower shall act as the agent of the 
Participating Municipalities and the PFIs in the procurement of the goods and services 
required therefor; and
3.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and Section 9.07 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, through the Central Coordinating Group and in accordance with 
guidelines satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association, not later 
than February 15 and July 15, a report, based in part on the reports furnished to it 
by each Participating Municipality pursuant to Part B.1(c) of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement, on the progress of the Project, together with the reports furnished 
to the Borrower by each Participating Municipality for the period under review, and 
any measures proposed by the Borrower to further the objectives of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower and the Participating Municipalities on said reports; and
(c)
thereafter, promptly take all measures, as shall have been agreed between 
Page  19
the Borrower and the Association, to further the objectives of the Project.
