Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H377 - ET 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Sustainable Land Management Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 13, 2008  
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H377 - ET 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 13, 2008, entered into between the FEDERAL 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (
“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby 
agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to 
this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement,
 
a
grant in an amount equivalent to twelve million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,500,000) (
“Financing”) to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03.  The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.05 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project which is 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Page  4
2
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure that 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consist that a situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Project or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Co-financing deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-financing Agreement is 
October 1, 2008. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been 
fulfilled. 
(b) 
The Recipient has established the SLM Support Unit in MoARD consisting of a 
national Project coordinator, financial management specialist, a procurement 
specialist, and monitoring and evaluation specialist, all with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. 
(c) 
The Recipient has adopted a Project Implementation Manual, including a 
financial management manual and chart of accounts to report on Project 
activities; samples of the formats for Project interim financial reports; audit 
terms of reference; and a Project procurement manual; in each case in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  5
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, t
he
Recipient’s representative is 
the Minister responsible for finance and economic development. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
P. O. Box 1905 
Addis Ababa 
Ethiopia 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
MINFIN  21147 
  (251-111) 
551355 
 6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  6
4
AGREED at Addis Ababa, Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
By  /s Sufian Ahmed 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ Kenichi Ohashi 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to reduce land degradation in agricultural landscapes 
and improve the agricultural productivity of small holder farmers in selected watersheds 
identified in the Program Implementation Manual. 
The Project consists of the following three Parts: 
Part A:
Watershed Management
Support for scaling up of best practices in sustainable land management and 
technologies by smallholder farmers in high potential or food secure areas. This Part consists of 
four sub-parts:  
1. Capacity 
Building
(a) 
Provision of capacity building services to the Recip
ient’s Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Development, Regional Bureaus of Agriculture and 
Rural Development, Woreda Offices of Agriculture and Rural Development, 
development agents, and local communities on community-based approaches to 
watershed planning and management using MoARD’s Community-Based 
Watershed Management Guidelines;  
(b) 
Provision of equipment;  
(c) 
Development of on-farm demonstration sites for reclaiming and improving the 
productivity of acidic soils;  
(d) 
Upgrading of MoARD’s World Overview of Conservation Approaches and 
Technologies (WOCAT) information management system including developing 
improved protocols for collecting peer review information on best management 
practices and providing structured exchange of knowledge between 
practitioners, researchers and farmers;   
(e) 
Provision of capacity building services to MoARD by means of Training and 
expert participation in the selection of best management practices; and 
(f) 
Production and dissemination of information products for policy makers, 
extension workers and other stakeholders. 
Page  8
6
2. 
Communal Land and Gully Rehabilitation
Stabilizing hillsides and degraded communal lands and gullies through: 
(a) 
Provision of advisory services and forums for communities to develop local 
by-laws to govern the use of communal lands;  
(b) 
Carrying out of Sub-projects involving reclamation of degraded communal 
lands, hillsides and gullies through measures such as terraces, forage contour 
bunds, reforestation, afforestation, deep-trenching, interventions to ameliorate 
acidic or saline-sodic soils; building of check dams, reshaping, cultivation with 
multi-purpose perennial trees, shrubs and grasses; and  
(c) 
Provision of relevant goods and equipment including 
inter alia
 hand tools, 
seeds, seedlings, and fencing materials.  
3. 
Farmland and homestead development
Reducing soil erosion and improving agricultural productivity on individual farmlands 
and homesteads through: 
(a) 
Provision of advisory services; and 
(b) 
Carrying out of Sub-projects involving application of soil and water 
conservation measures including introduction of high value crop varieties such 
as horticulture and orchard development, forage and grassland development, 
restoration and sustenance of soil fertility, improvement of water use efficiency 
in smallholder farming systems, and establishment of woodlots. 
4. Community 
infrastructure
Carrying out of Sub-projects involving construction of small-scale community-based 
infrastructure such as water harvesting systems including farm ponds, storage tanks, 
roadside flood harvesting, and spring development. 
Part B: 
Rural Land Certification and Administration
Strengthening of tenure security for smallholder farmers by scaling-up the enhanced 
land certification process through:  
Page  9
7
1. 
Provision of Training to upgrade the organizational, technical and managerial capacity 
of existing institutions/units responsible for land administration at the Federal, Regional 
and Woreda levels and in the judiciary;   
2. 
Supporting land certification interventions, including cadastral surveying parcel-based 
land registration, and developing registries for rural land in Woredas participating in 
watershed management activities; and 
3. 
Provision of relevant goods and equipment including hand held global position system 
(“GPS”) devices and maps.  
Part C
:
Project Management
Provision of capacity building services including: financial management, procurement, 
and monitoring and evaluation, to MoARD, including the SLM Support Unit, the National SLM 
Steering Committee, and the Regional, Woreda, and Kebele agencies responsible for sustainable 
land management, to effectively support coordination and implementation of the Project.  
Page  10
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the National SLM Steering Committee; National 
Technical Committee; SLM Support Unit; BoARD; Woreda Office of Agriculture and 
Rural Development (WOARD); and Kebele Watershed Development Committee 
(KWDC) are maintained at all times during the implementation of the Project with 
functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association so as to ensure prompt 
and efficient implementation of the Project.   
 MOARD 
Without limitation to paragraph 1 of this Part A, the MoARD shall be responsible for 
 
Project coordination and implementation.  
(a) 
National SLM Steering Committee 
(i) 
Without limitation to paragraph 1 of this Part A, the National SLM 
Steering Committee 
(“the Steering Committee”) shall be chaired by the 
State Minister for Natural Resources, MoARD, and including 
representatives from the Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Development (MoFED), the Ministry of Water Resources (MoWR), the 
Environmental Protection Authority (EPA), the Ethiopia Institute for 
Agricultural Research (EIAR), and the Regional administrations.  
(ii) 
The Steering Committee shall be responsible for: (a) establishing policy 
guidelines and providing overall supervision for Project 
implementation; (b) approving the annual Federal and Regional work 
program and budget; (c) approving the annual Procurement Plan; 
(d) reviewing the annual implementation performance report prepared 
by the SLM Support Unit; and (e) overseeing the implementation of 
corrective actions when necessary. 
 
Page  11
9
(b) National 
Technical 
Committee 
(i) 
Without limitation to paragraph 1 of this Part A, the National Technical 
Committee shall include senior technical staff from MoARD, MoWR, 
EPA, EIAR, and the Ethiopia Development Research Institute.  
(ii) 
The National Technical committee shall provide technical advice to the 
MoARD on the quality of implementation reports and special studies 
such as policy documents, guidelines, documentation of best practices, 
and monitoring & evaluation reports. 
(c) 
SLM Support Unit 
Without limitation to paragraph 1 of this Part A, the SLM Support Unit shall be 
responsible for the day-to-day management of the Project implementation, 
including: (a) preparing annual work plans and progress reports; (b) monitoring 
and supervising overall implementation progress and evaluation of Project 
impacts; (c) financial administration; (d) procuring goods and services at the 
federal level and supporting procurement management at the Woreda and 
Kebele levels; and (e) providing administrative support to the National SLM 
Steering Committee and the National Technical Committee. 
(d) BoARD 
Without limitation to paragraph 1 of this Part A, the respective Bureaus of 
Agriculture and Rural Development (BoARD) of each Region shall lead the 
implementation of the relevant Project activities at the Regional level. BoARDs 
shall approve and consolidate annual work plans and implementation progress 
reports submitted by the constituent Woredas, which reports shall be submitted 
to the SLM Support Unit.  
(e) 
Woreda Office of Agriculture and Rural Development (WOARD) and Kebele 
Watershed Development Committee. 
Without limitation to paragraph 1 of this Part A, the Woreda Office of 
Agriculture and Rural Development, the Kebele Watershed Development 
Committee and communities shall jointly undertake on-the-ground 
implementation of the relevant Project activities at the Woreda and sub-district 
levels. The WOARD and KWDC shall 
inter alia
 assist communities to: 
(a) develop annual work plans and budgets; (b) facilitate community 
participation in watershed development planning and rehabilitation in 
accordance with the Community-Based Participating Watershed Development 
Planning Guidelines; (c) provide Training; (d) carry out monitoring and 
Page  12
10
evaluation; (e) disseminate innovations in SLM; and (f) implement land 
certification and administration activities at the Woreda and Kebele levels. 
B. 
Implementation Arrangements  
1. Project 
Implementation 
Manual
The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the arrangements and 
procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual (provided, however, that in 
case of any conflict between the arrangements and procedures set out in the Project 
Implementation Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail), and, except as the Recipient and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project 
Implementation Manual, if in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or 
waiver shall materially or adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the objectives thereof.
 
2. Annual 
Work 
Program
(a) 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to Association for its approval, not later 
than March 31 of each year during the implementation of the Project, or such 
later date as the Association may agree, the annual work plans and budgets 
containing all proposed Sub-projects to be carried out in the following Fiscal 
Year, modified in a manner satisfactory to the Association, taking into account 
the Association’s comments and views on the matter. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause each participating Woreda and Kebele to implement, 
monitor and evaluate its respective Sub-projects in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in this Agreement and in more detail in the Project 
Implementation Manual, and shall not make or allow to be made any material 
change to any Sub-project included in the approved annual work plans and 
budgets without consultation with the Association. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Environmental and Social Management   
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that, prior to authorizing the commencement of any Project 
activities including financing of any Sub-projects likely to have detrimental 
environmental or social impacts, an appropriate environmental impact assessment shall 
Page  13
11
have been undertaken, and that in the case of the identified environmental or social 
risks, appropriate action plans are adopted and carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF). 
2. 
The Recipient shall regularly review the effective use of the ESMF as part of the 
monitoring and evaluation system for the SLM Project. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall cover the period 
of one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
three months after the end of the period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of the 
following: 
(i) 
Percentage increase in area under sustainable land management practices 
in the targeted watersheds. 
(ii) 
Percentage increase in agricultural productivity (for dominate crops and 
livestock). 
(iii) 
Percentage of development agents and Woreda experts in the Project area 
using information on best management practices in sustainable land 
management from MoARD’s knowledge management system.  
(iv) 
Percentage increase in the number of beneficiary farmers with a sense of 
tenure security compared with non-beneficiaries. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 60 days after the end of each 
Page  14
12
financial quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have the Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines dated 
May 2004 and revised in October 2006, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines 
dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International and National Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of International and National Competitive Bidding. National Competitive Bidding 
(NCB) shall follow the Recipient’s procurement procedures subject to the following 
additional procedures:  (i) the Recipient’s standard bid documents for procurement of 
goods and works shall be used; (ii) if pre-qualification is used, the Bank’s standard pre-
qualification document shall be used; (iii) margin of preference shall not be applicable; 
(iv) bidders shall be given a minimum of 30 days to submit bids from the date of 
availability of the bidding documents; (v) use of merit points for evaluation of bids are 
not allowed; (vi) foreign bidders shall not be excluded from participation; and 
(vii) results of evaluation and award of contract shall be made public. 
Page  15
13
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following methods of 
procurement, other than International and National Competitive Bidding, may be used 
for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used: (a) Direct contracting; (b) Community Participation 
in Procurement procedures as further elaborated in the Procurement Plan or the Project 
Implementation Manual; (c) Shopping; and (d) Procurement from United Nations 
Agencies. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following methods of 
procurement, other than Quality and Cost-ba
sed Selection, may be used for consultants’ 
services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used: (a) Single Source Selection; (b) Selection of Individual 
Consultants; (c) Least Cost Selection; (d) Selection Based on Consultants 
Qualifications. 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association.  
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to 
such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  16
14
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$335,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after March 11, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures under 
Categories (1) to (3). 
2.
 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2013. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. The 
Recipient 
undertakes: 
(1) 
to hire by January 7, 2009, a Project accountant in each Region to support 
Project financial activities with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable 
to the Association; and  
(2) 
without limitation to the provisions of paragraph B.1. of Section II of this 
Schedule, to provide by January 7, 2009, through the Project Finance Division 
at MoARD, financial management Training programs to all staff at the 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Subprojects under  
 
Part A.2, A.3 and  
 
A.4 of the Project 
8,600,000 
67% of the amounts 
disbursed 
(2) Goods, Training  
 
and consultants’  
 
services for the Project 
2,600,000 67% 
(3) Operating Costs 
200,000 
67% 
(4) Unallocated Amounts 
1,100,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
12,500,000  
Page  17
15
Regional and Woreda levels involved in financial management of the Financing 
and the Co-financing, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
and thereafter to continue to provide to new and existing staff such Training as 
needed, along with adequate resources, to support these activities. 
Page  18
16
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“BoARD” means any Bureau of Agriculture and Rural Development at the Regional 
level. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
“Co-financier” means the Global Environment Facility (“GEF”), referred to in 
paragraph 10 of the Appendix to the General Conditions. 
5. 
“Co-financing” means an amount of nine million United States Dollars 
(US$.9,000,000), to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing the Project. 
6. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement between the Recipient and the Co-
financier providing for the Co-financing. 
7. 
“Community-Based Participatory Watershed Development Planning Guidelines” means 
the regulatory guidelines adopted by the MoARD (as hereinafter defined) in 2005 for 
purposes of establishing sustainable land management practices and containing 
inter 
alia
,
methods and standards on design and implementation conservation measures 
within watersheds in the territory of the Recipient.  
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
9. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” (“ESMF”) means the Recipient’s 
plan, dated January 18, 2008, that includes the set of mitigation, enhancement, 
monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during implementation of the Project 
to eliminate any adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, reduce them to 
acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts. The measures include 
inter alia
:
clear 
procedures and methodologies for the environmental and social assessment, review, 
approval and implementation of investments to be financed under the Project; 
appropriate roles and responsibilities, and necessary reporting procedures for managing 
and monitoring environmental and social concerns related to proposed Sub-projects; 
and practical information resources for implementing the ESMF.  
Page  19
17
10. 
“Environmental Protection Authority” or “EPA” means the entity established by the 
Recipient pursuant to Proclamation No. 295/2002.  
11. 
“Ethiopia Development Research Institute” or “EDRI” means the entity established by 
the Recipient pursuant to Council of Ministers Regulation No. 54/99.  
12. 
“Ethiopia Institute for Agricultural Research” or “EIAR” means the entity established 
by the Recipient pursuant to Proclamation No.79/97, as amended to date.  
13. 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Recipient's fiscal year beginning July 8 and ending 
July 7 of the next calendar year. 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 
15, 2006). 
15. 
“Kebele” means the lowest tier of government in the Recipient’s administrative system 
as established under the relevant Regional legislation. 
16. 
“Kebele Watershed Development Committee” means any committee described in 
paragraph 1 (e) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 of this Agreement or the successor thereto. 
17. 
“MoARD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. 
18. 
“MoFED” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and Economic Development. 
19. 
“MoWR” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Water Resources. 
20. 
“National SLM Steering Committee” means the committee established for the 
coordination of activities to be carried out under the Project, and referred to in 
paragraph (a) of Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the successor thereto.  
21. 
“National Technical Committee” means the committee established for the coordination 
of activities to be carried out under the Project, and referred to in paragraph (b) of 
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the successor thereto. 
22. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental costs incurred by MoARD, BoARD, 
WOARD and WoFED based on annual budgets approved by the Association, on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including fuel and 
operation and maintenance costs for vehicles; stationary and sundries; advertising and 
office running 
costs including 
services of office machines and equipment; purchase of 
Page  20
18
materials for workshops; office supplies; communication charges; and venues for 
workshops and Training. 
23. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Grants” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
24. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
March 11, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
25. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of 
this Agreement consisting of different modules setting out respectively, 
inter alia
,
the 
administrative, financial and accounting procedures; criteria for selection of the 
watersheds included in the Project; the procurement and disbursement procedures; the 
terms and conditions for related grant agreements and financing agreements, including 
procurement and accounting procedures; performance indicators to be used for the 
Project, and other activities and arrangements to be used for the purpose of 
implementing the Project, to be adopted by the Recipient not later than the Effective 
Date, as the same may be amended from time to time. 
26. 
“Region” means the following six Regional States: Amhara, Oromiya, Tigray, SNNP, 
Beneshangul Gumuz and Gambela within the Recipient’s territory as defined under the 
Recipient’s Constitution. 
27. 
“SLM Support Unit” means the unit established within the MoARD for the 
coordination of activities to be carried out under the Project, as referred to in 
paragraph (c) of Section I.A 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the successor thereto.  
28. 
“Sub-project” means a sub-project to be carried out by participating Woredas and 
Kebeles, communities and or farmers in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual. 
29. 
“Training” means the Project-related expenses incurred by MoARD, BoARD, WOARD 
and WoFED based on annual budgets approved by the Association, for per diem, travel, 
purchase of Training materials and rental of facilities, and includes workshops and 
seminars. 
30. 
“WOARD” means any Woreda Office for Agriculture and Rural Development. 
31. 
“WoCAT” means the World Overview of Conservation Approaches and Technologies a 
network of soil and water conservation specialists from all over the world organized as 
a
consortium of national and international institutions (
www.wocat.net
). 
Page  21
19
32. 
“Woreda” means the third tier of government in the Recipient’s administrative system 
as established under the relevant Regional legislation. 
 
