 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14656

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 07/13/2015

               Country: Ethiopia
             Project ID: P107139                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Sustainable Land              Project Costs (US$M):                     37.8                29.16
                         Management Project
  L/C Number:            CH377                        Loan/Credit (US$M):      20.00 IDA, 9.0 GEF 18.1 IDA, 8.1 GEF
      Sector Board:      Environment                  Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  04/29/2008
                                                               Closing Date:            09/30/2013            09/30/2013
          Sector(s):       General water sanitation and flood protection sector (32%); General agriculture fishing and
                           forestry sector (30%); Central government administration (26%); Sub-national government
                           administration (9%); Law and justice (3%)
          Theme(s):        Water resource management (40% - P); Land administration and management (40% - P);
                           Other rural development (20% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
April Connelly             Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 This was a fully blended IDA/GEF financed project that had both a project development objective and a global
environment objective.

According to the loan agreement (pg. 5) the project development objective is "to reduce land degradation in
agricultural landscapes and improve the agricultural productivity of small holder farmers in selected watersheds
identified in the Program Implementation Manual."

A similar statement of the project's objectives is presented in the Project Appraisal Document "to reduce land
degradation in agricultural landscapes and improve the agricultural productivity of small holder farmers."

The global environment objective was only recorded in the project appraisal document, and is absent from the grant
agreement: "The global environment objective is also to reduce land degradation, leading to the protection and or
restoration of ecosystem functions and diversity in agricultural landscapes." (PAD, pg. 3)

This review uses the statement of objectives from the loan agreement as the basis of its assessment as that is the
legally binding document.

Despite a Level 2 restructuring that included minor changes to the key associated outcome targets, IEG has chosen
not to undertake a Split evaluation as the changes did not make a material difference to the achievement of the
project against the PDO.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No
c. Components:
 The project had three components:
Component 1: Watershed Management (appraisal estimate US$ 22.20 million, actual cost US$ 20.57 million).

The objective of the Watershed Management Component was to support scaling up of best practices in sustainable
land management for small holder farmers in the “high potential”/”food secure” areas that were increasingly becoming
vulnerable to land degradation and food insecurity. This component comprised four sub-components:
(i) Capacity building. Provision of TA and training to government units responsible for sustainable land management
to support the preparation of participatory community-based watershed management plans. The project would finance
training, farmer exchange visits, equipment, to enhance the capacity of relevant government staff and local
communities in community-based approaches to watershed planning and management, using MoARD’s widely
accepted Community-Based Watershed Management Guideline. It would also finance upgrading of MoARD’s World
Overview of Conservation Approaches and Technologies information management system by developing improved
protocols for collecting peer review information on best management practices and providing structured exchange of
knowledge between practitioners, researchers and farmers; training in the selection of best management practices;
and the production and dissemination of information products for policy makers, extension workers and other
stakeholders.
(ii) Communal land and gully rehabilitation. This sub component supported the implementation of locally appropriate
physical and biological measures to stabilize hillsides, degraded communal lands, and gullies. The project financed
advisory services and forums for communities to develop local by-laws to govern the use of communal lands.
Financing of sub-projects involving reclamation of degraded communal lands, hillsides and gullies through measures
such as terraces, forage contour bunds, reforestation, afforestation, deep-trenching, interventions to ameliorate
acidic or saline-sodic soils; building of check dams, reshaping, cultivation with multi-purpose perennial trees, shrubs
and grasses; and the provision of relevant goods and equipment including inter alia hand tools, seeds, seedlings, and
fencing materials.
(iii) Farmland and homestead development. This sub component financed the reduction of soil erosion and
improvement of agricultural productivity on individual farmlands and homesteads through the provision of advisory
services; and financing of sub-projects involving application of soil and water conservation measures including
introduction of high value crop varieties such as horticulture and orchard development, forage and grassland
development, restoration and sustenance of soil fertility, improvement of water use efficiency in small holder farming
systems, and establishment of woodlots.
(iv) Community infrastructure. Financing of sub-projects involving construction of small-scale community-based
infrastructure such as water harvesting systems including farm ponds, storage tanks, roadside flood harvesting, and
spring development.

Component 2: Rural Land Certification and Administration (appraisal estimate US$ 3.93 million, US$ 3.06 million).

This component aimed to strengthen land tenure security for small holder farmers in the project area by scaling up the
government's enhanced land certification process. This included scaling up of an enhanced land certification process
(known as Stage 2) based on experiences from two pilot projects financed by other donor. The project financed
training to upgrade the organizational, technical and managerial capacity of existing institutions/units responsible for
land administration at the Federal, Regional and District levels and in the judiciary. Support for land certification
interventions, including cadastral surveying parcel based land registration, and developing registries for rural land in
Districts participating in watershed management activities. As well as the provision of relevant goods and equipment
including hand held global position system (“GPS”) devices and maps.

Component 3: Project Management (appraisal estimate US$ 2.87 million, actual cost US$ 2.83 million).

This component provided financial and technical assistance to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development and local government units responsible for sustainable land management to effectively support
coordination and implementation of the SLM project and the broader SLM Program. This included procurement,
financial management and monitoring and evaluation (M&E).

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Costs. Total project costs estimated at appraisal were US $37.8 million equivalent. Actual project costs at
closure were US $29.16 equivalent. The ICR reports that actual project costs in USD terms were lower than estimated
in part due to SDR fluctuations.

Financing. A US$ 20 million equivalent IDA grant and US$ 9 million equivalent GEF grant were committed at
appraisal. At project closure US$ 18.1 million equivalent of the IDA credit and US$ 8.1 million equivalent of the GEF
grant had disbursed. The ICR reports that the original IDA grant amount was reduced to US$ 19.3 million by the
closing, due to exchange rate fluctuations. There were undisbursed balances of US$ 1.2 million from IDA and US$
80,000 from GEF that were cancelled. The ICR does not explain the reason that the full amounts did not disburse.

Borrower Contribution . At appraisal it was planned that the Government would provide a counterpart contribution of
US$ 8.7 million. Only US$ 2.7 million of the government counterpart commitment was provided as a monetary
contribution, equivalent to 31% of the original commitment. The ICR notes that the government considered in-kind
contributions to be part of its contribution.

Dates. The project closed as scheduled.
Level 2 Restructuring. A Level 2 restructuring was approved in March 2013. The restructuring allowed for the
reallocation of IDA and GEF funds among components and disbursement categories; the provision of a waiver for the
use of grant funds to cover VAT expenses; the revision of some intermediate indicators and target values; and, the
addition of an indicator on soil carbon. The PDO remained unchanged.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of objectives is rated substantial.

The project's objectives were and remain substantially relevant to the country context and priorities highlighted in
government strategy documents, World Bank regional and sector strategies and past and current country assistance
strategies for Ethiopia.

Ethiopia’s agricultural production is largely rain fed and is dominated by small-scale farmers. Agriculture is the main
income earner and livelihood for 85 percent of the rural population. At appraisal, land degradation was considered to
be a major cause of the country's low and declining agricultural productivity, persistent food insecurity, and rural
poverty. The annual cost of land degradation was estimated to be in the range of two to three percent of agricultural
GDP, a significant loss for a country where agriculture accounts for nearly 50 percent of GDP, 90 percent of export
revenues, and is the source of livelihood for more than 85 percent of the country's inhabitants.

Ethiopia’s Poverty Reduction Strategy for the period 2005/06- 2009/10, calls for addressing land degradation by:
strengthening tenure security by expanding the ongoing land certification project; building capacity in
community-based approaches to watershed management; scaling up successful models for watershed management;
and strengthening natural resource information management, specifically rigorous evaluation, synthesis, and
dissemination of best management practices and innovations in sustainable land management. Addressing land
degradation and enhancing agricultural productivity remain country priorities in Ethiopia’s growth and transformation
plan for the periods 2010/2011 and 2014/2015.

The project’s objectives are also consistent with the World Bank’s Africa Action Plan goal of making agriculture more
productive and sustainable, and taking advantage of opportunities for NRM to promote growth and poverty reduction.
The objectives also support the TerrAfrica partnership goal of scaling up investments in SLM throughout Africa. They
are also aligned with the GEF Land Degradation Focal Area.

The Bank's Interim Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY2006-2007, in place when the project was prepared,
noted that "land degradation is at the top of the environmental agenda in Ethiopia" because of the threat it poses to
sustainable agricultural growth, infrastructure, and other development challenges. The project objectives remain
relevant to the current Country Partnership Strategy (2013-2016), which identifies improvements in land and water
management practices as a means to increase agriculture productivity under the pillar for fostering competitiveness
and employment. The objectives also remain relevant to the CPS goals of enhancing the resilience of vulnerable
households to food insecurity and improving sustainable natural resource management and resilience to climate
change under the pillar for enhancing resilience and reducing vulnerabilities.

b. Relevance of Design:
Relevance of design is rated modest.

The project included a clear statement of objectives that were to be achieved through the implementation of three
components. The project was part of a larger government program designed to enhance impact by employing a
programmatic approach to scale up sustainable land management initiatives supported by multiple donors, which
were previously implemented in a piecemeal fashion.

The first component included activities whose logic was clearly relevant to achieving both the land degradation and
agricultural productivity objectives. The component would provide technical assistance to organize and prepare
participatory watershed management plans with the local communities. It would then finance a comprehensive mix of
sustainable land management activities identified within these plans. The sustainable land management interventions
would directly lead to the achievement of the objective of reducing land degradation and the resulting impacts on soil
fertility and moisture retention would also contribute to the second objective of increasing agricultural productivity. The
component also promoted the adoption of high value crops and improved livestock production systems which would
have a direct impact on the agricultural productivity objective. It also supported the construction of community
infrastructure such as small scale irrigation, water point construction, community feeder roads, and surface water
systems. Community infrastructure was intended to enhance the communities livelihood's, thereby providing an
enhanced incentive to implement sustainable management practices.

The link between the second component and the projects objectives was less clear. This component aimed to expand
enhance and expand the coverage of the government's land certification program, by facilitating the timely processing
and issuance of enhanced georeferenced land certificates. The ultimate goal of the component was to strengthen
tenure security for smallholder farmers in the project area, as tenure security is an important incentive for communities
to invest in sustainable land management practices. However, the technical rationale for including the promotion of
enhanced land certificates was less clear. The land directorate was only established a year before implementation
and the appropriate cadastral approach and survey methodology had not yet been determined. Hence the conditions
were not yet appropriate to carry out the enhanced certification process. In addition farmers already had some tenure
security as existing legislation already provided tenure rights and a simpler certification process to enhance tenure
security was available. Part of the rationale for supporting the issuance of enhanced geo-referenced certificates was
to reduce conflicts over boundaries, but the project team interviewed by IEG noted that land conflicts were not
prevalent in the project areas.

There were also shortcomings in the project's results framework. The link between the PDO and some components
was not clearly articulated and some of the indicators selected to measure project achievements were not appropriate.
For example the project originally aimed to use agricultural productivity increases as a key measure of determining
the project's land degradation achievements.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  Despite a Level 2 restructuring that included minor changes to the key associated outcome targets, IEG has chosen
not to undertake a Split evaluation as the changes did not make a material difference to the achievement of the
project against the PDO.

Achievement of the objective of reducing land degradation in agricultural landscapes was substantial.

The ICR reports that achievement of objectives was measured by three indicators: changes in vegetation cover;
increase in soil carbon; and area treated with SLM practices.

Outputs

    The project worked in a total of 45 watersheds, in which 45 participatory Watershed Management Plans and 613
     community-based micro-watershed management plans were prepared. The watershed management plans
     integrated a comprehensive set of 39 different soil and water conservation measures that were implemented by
     the local communities in communal hillsides and on individual farmland. The soil and water conservation
     measures were selected and implemented in accordance with the Government's Community-Based Participatory
     Watershed Development Guidelines.

    The area under sustainable land management practices in the targeted watersheds increased from 86,892
     hectares to 209,926 hectares by project closure. An increase of 140%, exceeding the targeted increase of 80-90
     percent. The ICR (pg. 10) notes that the net area targeted for project interventions was 211,000 ha.

    In order to increase land tenure security and increase the incentive of landholder to invest in SLM practices, the
     project aimed to issue level one land certificates for 700,000 parcels. At restructuring the target was revised to
     70,000 certificates. By project closure only 59,999 level one certificates were issued and 229,642 parcels had
     been surveyed in preparation for the issuance of second-level certificates. In addition, 5,079 parcels of communal
     lands were titled. The shortfall in this intermediate indicator was due to the limited capacity of implementation
     agencies at the district and local level. During the last two years of implementation, the project shifted its efforts
     from a focus on level one certificates to second level certification.

    The ICR reports that the number of recipients of land certificates with a sense of tenure security compared with
     non beneficiaries increased by 98 percent. The ICR also argues that although the project did not meet its target
     for the number of parcels certified with level two certificates, implementation of the projects land certificate
     activities improved Ethiopia's Land Administrative capacity by putting in place the building blocks for improved
     land tenure security led to an agreement on a common, cost-effective approach and methodology for second
     level certification that is in line with international best practices. This methodology is being applied in the follow on
     project.

Outcomes

The ICR reported on two proxy measures of land degradation:

    The Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), a measure of vegetation cover and a proxy measure of the
     reduction of land degradation, increased in the project areas by 0.543 (9%) over baseline of 0.498. The target
     Restructuring Paper was 0.586 (17%) over the baseline.

    Soil carbon increased by .31 percent during the period 2009-2013, exceeding the target of a .01 percent increase
     over the baseline. This is an indication of improvement in soil conditions.

The ICR notes that over 60% of field-level interventions were concentrated in the last two years of the project. In light
of the longer term nature of the expected biophysical impacts, the results that could be measured by project closure
may not fully reflect the project's outcome level achievement. IEG notes that given that a follow on project is active
that continues to provide support the same beneficiaries, it is plausible that the outcomes will be higher.

The ICR also reports anecdotally that "moisture content increases due to improved infiltration allowed for the gradual
the recharge of springs and underground water storage, allowing for improved availability of water for both human and
animal uses, improvement of biodiversity resources, and for the production of homestead fruits and vegetable.
Improved water availability and resilience to water related disasters were both major contributors to the overall
enhancement of the livelihood perspectives and quality of life of beneficiary communities." But no quantified evidence
was provided to substantiate these claims.

Achievement of the objective of improving the agricultural productivity of small holder farmers in selected
watersheds identified in the Program Implementation Manual was modest.

Outputs

In addition to the sustainable land management activities reported above, which were expected to contribute to
agricultural productivity by improving soil fertility, moisture retention, and reducing erosion, the project also promoted
high value crops and improved livestock practices, small scale irrigation, water point construction, community feeder
roads construction and maintenance, and surface water harvesting systems.

The ICR (pg. 26-27) reports on two pages of outputs related to these activities, most of which were below the original
targets.

Outcomes

    By project closure there was a 10 percent increase in yields for major crops in all treated watersheds. This
     achievement is well below both the original (50 percent) and revised target (30 percent). The ICR does not
     discuss other factors (outside of the project) that may have affected the yield nor were data on credible control
     areas gathered.


5. Efficiency:
 Economic Analysis

At appraisal the project team estimated an overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 10-17% and a Financial Rate of
Return (FRR) of 8-11%. The range represents the calculation of two scenarios, one in which only physical soil and
water conservation measures were implemented and a second scenario which considered a more integrated
approach that combined physical soil and water conservation structures with other measures such as high value
fodder on bunds and fertility management by intercroppinging. Both rates of return were calculated over a 25 year
period. The PAD argued that the net returns may have been understated because the analysis did not take into
account associated benefits that were difficult to quantify monetarily such as reduced soil erosion and improved
biodiversity, or associated benefits such as farmer's lower risk to vulnerability as a result of diversifying their crop
patterns or the improved resilience of the landscape due to the adoption of sustainable land management
technologies. Sensitivity analysis of the ERR indicate found the net economic benefits to be robust, as it remained
above the opportunity cost of capital even when a 10 percent increase in project costs or reduction in project benefits
were factored in.

The cost benefit analysis conducted at closure generated an IRR that ranged from 10.41 percent - 22.60 percent. The
higher bound reflected more generous prices and discount rate assumptions. The ICR notes that there are at least
eight categories of benefits associated with the project. Half of which were deemed readily quantified and the rest
analyzed qualitatively. The four readily quantifiable benefit streams factored into the IRR calculation were: soil erosion
prevention, soil carbon, vegetation cover and farmers incomes. The benefit stream was assumed over a 25 year
period, with a discount rate of 10%. However, not all outcomes were included because of lag before impact and fact
that 60 percent of the interventions were carried out in final two years. Nonetheless, the ICR found that project
benefits exceed costs, even when only a portion of benefits are quantified. The average of the range of ERR values at
appraisal and closure are reported in table a. below.

Project Management Efficiency

While there were some delays in the initial years of the implementation period, they were resolved over time. The
accelerated implementation progress in the final two years made up for earlier delays, allowing the project to close on
time, with most of the available funds disbursed.

Based on the positive rate of return and the fact that there were no significant project management inefficiencies,
efficiency is rated substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      18.5%                                    100%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      21.7%                                    100%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The overall project outcome rating is moderately satisfactory. The project's objectives were substantially relevant to
the countries development priorities, but the relevance of project design was modest. Achievement of the first
objective was substantial but modest for the second, as the project fell far short of its agricultural productivity target.
Efficiency was substantial owing to the positive rate of return and the lack of any significant project management
inefficiencies.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The ICR reports that sustaining the gains made under the project will require investments in O&M of small irrigation
infrastructure, terraces and feeder roads, and continued technical capacity. Further work is also needed at the farm
and household level to realize the potential productivity gains and higher income levels from increased water
availability and reduced landscape degradation. There are also a number of structural and operational issues that the
Government needs to address to reduce risks to project outcomes over the long term. This includes addressing
regional staff turnover, institutional main streaming, improving financial management capacity at the sub-national
level, and developing a functional and consolidated M&E system. Support to address these issues in the medium term
is being provided through a second phase of the SLM project as well as the continued financial and technical support
of other development partners through the national sustainable land management program.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Positive elements of quality at entry include the Bank’s responsiveness to Government priorities and the
support it provided in project preparation. The ICR notes (pg. 4) that project design took into account lessons of
previous sustainable land management operations supported by the Bank and other partners in Ethiopia and
globally. Input was provided on lessons learned from the other natural resource management projects in Africa by
a mutlidiciplinary WB team and a south-south event was held to transfer of knowledge from the China Loess
Plateau project to the Government of Ethiopia. Many technical operational and institutional risks were identified in
the project appraisal document along with proposed mitigation measures. However, while the technical aspects of
the sustainable land management components were sound, other important elements of design were not as
strong. Notably there was insufficient assessment of the implementation readiness of such a highly decentralized
project, particularly with respect to Preparation of Watershed Management Plans, and the technical assistance
requirements and the availability of technical service providers, which negatively impacted the first few years of
implementation. In addition, the technical rationale for the Land Certification Component was not sufficiently
assessed. The ICR (pg.18) notes that a sound technical basis for second-level certification had not yet been
established. There were also a number of shortcomings in M&E design. There were deficiencies in the selection of
indicators and many of the targets were overly ambitious. The M&E budget was insufficient and the project’s
monitoring arrangements, whereby GTZ which was responsible for M&E of the larger sustainable management
program was also expected to handle M&E of the project, were problematic and the risks of this arrangement were
not sufficiently assessed. A project implementation manual was developed during preparation, in keeping with
good practice for decentralized projects, but the ICR (pg. 5) reports that field staff found it cumbersome to use,
and that there was insufficient clarity on the roles and responsibilities of fiduciary manners and implantation of the
farmland and homestead development component.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Semi-annual field visits were conducted throughout the project supervision period and were enhanced by the
inclusion other development partners supporting the Government’s broader SLM Program. The project team
included staff based in the country office which the ICR credits (pg. 19) with facilitating routine meetings and follow
up. The Bank was instrumental in improving watershed level implementation through the provision of field support
to the Ministry of Agriculture and local governments involved in implementation. The Bank supervision team also
provided the necessary training and support to facilitate the resolution of procurement delays.

The ICR (pg.19) notes that supervision reports identified and documented many issues affecting implementation
but there were frequent delays in addressing implementation constraints. Some implementation constraints such
as the lack of adequate working conditions (mainly transportation and internet access for communication and
reporting purposes), which could have been addressed by reallocating resources during implementation for TA
and M&E, were not adequately addressed. In addition, while the project team raised the importance of M&E with
the implementing partners and the government and also played a key role in ensuring that outcome based surveys
were conducted to demonstrate effectives of land management practices promoted by the project, the deficiencies
in the project’s M&E system were not adequately addressed. The ICR (pg. 7) also notes that not all supervision
reports reported on the implementation of environmental safeguards.

The mid-term review was carried out as planned and identified a number of issues affecting implementation,
resulting in a proposal to restructure the project. However, the restructuring process was delayed by protracted
discussion within the Bank over how to improve the results framework. The ICR (pg. 6) notes that due to the
imminent closing date and the expected approval of a second phase of the project, the changes made through
restructuring only addressed a limited number of the identified issues, the remaining issues were deferred to be
addressed in the design of the second phase of the project.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    There is limited information in the ICR on the government's performance. The ICR reports (pg. 19) that the
government was committed to the project from preparation through closure. The project was part of a larger multi
donor Sustainable Land Management Program that is considered to be a flagship program of the Ethiopian
Government. While the amount of government counterpart commitment in monetary terms was below appraisal
estimates, the ICR (pg.46) notes that this number did not value and factor in-kind contributions, and that the
government was under the impression that in-kind contributions would be counted. The project team interviewed
by IEG reported that in their view the government's in-kind contribution was substantial, though it was not
quantified. The ICR (pg. 19) notes that government commitment to the project was also demonstrated by the
creation of a Directorate for Land Administration, which was crucial for implementing the project's land certificate
activities, and political support transmitted by the central authorities from MoA to the regional, district and level.
The government expressed its commitment to consolidating and expanding project gains through its request for a
follow on project and engagement in its preparation.

The main shortcoming in government performance was that it should have played a greater role in addressing
administrative and staffing disruptions within the agencies involved in project implementation. The ICR (pg. 17)
reports that the frequent transfer and change of focal persons and local level Development Agents affected field
work and the quality and timeliness of implementation reports and generated technical gaps in almost all regions
in which the project was implemented. It also notes that greater engagement by the government was needed to
harmonize remuneration among different decentralized projects and address the lack of support by regional
authorities, both of which impeded efforts to resolve staffing issues.

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
     The project had a decentralized implementation structure, comprising four levels: Federal, Regional, District,
and Sub-District. The main implementing agency was the Federal Ministry of Agriculture. Responsibility for overall
project coordination and implementation supervision was assigned to a project support unit (PSU) that also served
as the central body for the National SLM Program. The ICR (pg. 19) reports that the PSU played an effective role
in its central coordination duties. It followed relevant government policies as well as the guidelines provided in the
project’s core documents. It reviewed and approved annual work plans and budgets, and provided guidance and
advice to local authorities and beneficiary communities, through decentralized regional coordinators. The PSU
was also proactive in developing its own system to track implementation progress in the absence of a functional
M&E system. In addition, the PSU contributed to the effective implementation of the Watershed Management
component by enhancing technical quality at the regional, local and community levels.

However, there were weaknesses in the documentation and reporting on environmental safeguard
implementation, which should have benefited from independent auditing to ensure compliance and draw lessons
to improve future implementation but did not. Project implementation was also hampered by inadequate M&E
capacity and poor financial and procurement management capacity at the district level. The ICR (pg. 20) reports
that "institutional requirements linked to the nature of SLM as a flagship program, and the relationships with
donors and development partners have contributed to heavy workloads. Unfortunately, despite intense training
and capacity building efforts, key elements of the performance of the PSU have been adversely affected by the
problems of quality, performance and delays created at the regional and local levels." The ICR also notes (pg. 5)
that high staff workloads and turnover at the local level had a negative effect on the critical function of providing
technical, operational and fiduciary support to the beneficiary communities.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   At appraisal, key performance indicators for each objective and various intermediate outcome indicators were
identified but no baseline values were established. Time bound targets were established for one of the two key
performance indicators and for most of the intermediate indicators. The target for the second PDO indicator was
expected to be determined during implementation. The project appraisal document also specified that the project
would finance evaluations at mid-term and project completion on the impact of SLM interventions on the vegetation
cover of the selected watersheds, using remote sensing and other techniques. In addition, the PAD outlined M&E
arrangements, including the specification of roles and responsibilities at the community, regional and federal Level.
However, much of the overall M&E functions for the project, were expected to be implemented by GTZ, who was
responsible for developing and implementing an M&E system for the larger SLM program.

The ICR notes that many of the indicators were difficult to measure particularly those measuring agricultural
productivity. Many of the project targets were also unrealistic. For example, the target for the number of land
certificates to be issued did not match the existing technical knowledge and institutional capacity for implementation at
the federal, regional, and local level.
 b. M&E Implementation:
   Implementation of the project's M&E system was problematic. The ICR reports that GTZ focused on a detailed
M&E system for overall program indicators rather than the indicators defined for the project, resulting in weak
methodical reporting on the project's achievements. The project's M&E budget was insufficient for the requirements of
the operation in light of the gap left by GTZ. Consequently a sound baseline was not established until late in the
project and there were difficulties in collecting and report on progress at the local level due to the low institutional
capacity, insufficient technical know-how, persistent staff turnover, equipment and communication deficiencies. The
PSU developed a comprehensive internal planning process as part of the budget allocation procedures, whereby each
district and region was required to present an extensive list of targets for field activities each year, which were used to
track implementation progress and prepare annual reports. The ICR notes the PSU had difficulty preparing annual
reports due to problems of decentralized data generation and aggregation. Furthermore, the data was of limited value
in assessing progress towards the outcome targets. Despite the M&E system's failure to track the project's
development indicators, the Bank team pushed for the implementation of remote sensing surveys of soil carbon and
NDVI to demonstrate the results of the project's land management activities. The surveys were complemented by site
visits that confirmation of improvements in land cover.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR reports (pg. 13) that "M&E products and inputs have not been adequately and regularly generated or
utilized." The limited functionality and use of the M&E system is reported to have affected project progress and
reporting on the achievement of project objectives. However, despite the M&E systems failures, the outcome based
surveys conducted at the Bank teams requests to assess soil carbon and the NDVI were useful in demonstrating
effects of the land management practices promoted by the project.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was characterized as Environmental category B and it triggered the Environmental Assessment OP/BP
4.01 safeguards policy. The project employed a participatory approach and thus the types and location of specific
interventions were not known at appraisal. Therefore, rather than conducting an environmental assessment, the
project prepared an Environmental and Social Management Framework to screen all proposed interventions once
they emerged through the participatory planning process. The ICR indicates that no averse environmental of social
impacts were detected during project supervision, however, it also points out that documentation and reporting on
environmental safeguards was weak. Specifically, not all of the WB supervision aide memoirs reported on the
implementation of environmental safeguards by the project. One project aide memoir found that "although activities
are screened, no further assessments were conducted with respect to location specific impacts that could be
associated with construction or rehabilitation of roads, irrigation facilities and spring development."

With respect to social safeguards, several elements of the project's design and implementation strategy were
expected to improve the empowerment and social capital of beneficiary communities including: the project's
participatory decision-making process, the remunerated involvement of community members in the establishment of
most biophysical measures, the provision of alternative livelihood opportunities, and the support for enhanced land
tenure security through the land certification initiative. Sub-projects activities were also screened for social impacts.
Implementation support mission confirmed that all project physical activities were carried out on existing sites and
structures, thus no land acquisition or resettlement issues were detected.

While the ICR did not report any issues of non-compliance with safeguards policies, it noted that there was some
scope for improving the implementation of mitigation measures. For example the social checklist in the ESMF could
have been used more systematically to assess potential social impacts associated with widening or rehabilitation of
drainage or small irrigation infrastructure, and community led closures and by-laws to protect grazing land and
vegetative cover. In addition while effort was made to ensure female participation in the Project through sharing of
project related activities and benefits between men and women, additional effort is needed to enhance women's
participation in decision making and leadership.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial management. The ICR notes that the project complied with the financial covenants outlined in the legal
agreements which included submission of quarterly financial reports and annual audits but some audits were
submitted with delays and the last financial report and audit report were not submitted by the due date. The final
project audit was pending at the time of the ICR's writing but the project team subsequently informed IEG that it was
received and was unqualified. There were inconsistencies in the ICR regarding the impact of FM on project
implementation. Pg. 5 notes that "the project was constrained by inadequate M&E capacity and poor financial
management and procurement capacity at the district () level." Whereas pg. 8 states "no major issues related to
budgeting, accounting, staffing, internal controls, audits or flow of funds affected project implementation significantly."

Procurement. The ICR reports that procurement delays affected the initial years of project implementation but this was
resolved through the Bank's guidance and the provision of training on procurement management to decentralized
implementation agencies.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR draws multiple lessons. The most pertinent are consolidated and adapted below:

A programmatic approach establishing and scaling up Sustainable Land Management efforts can generate a
number of benefits despite the initial transaction costs associated with convening and aligning financing,
experiences and approaches among partners and stakeholders. Technical assistance during preparation is
important for ensuring the success of such an approach.

For projects with a decentralized implementation structure, high staff turnover of technical staff at the local level as
well as changes in key focal points and development agents can be detrimental to the quality and timeliness of
implementation. Enhanced recruitment procedures, appropriate incentive mechanism (working conditions, training,
etc.) and harmonization of salaries and benefits among district staff working on different projects are important for
minimizing such disruptions.

Sustainable local institutions are critical for the effective delivery of services required to implement sustainable land
management programs and technical assistance for building their capacity should be built into project design. In
this case, implementation of project activities were more effective in areas in which local level implementation
structures were established and sustained through technical assistance, targeted capacity building and reward and
incentive schemes.

Area closures can be effective mechanisms for environmental rehabilitation, climate resilience and reclamation of
biodiversity but they require strong community engagement and commitment. Community by-laws can be
instrumental in bringing this about.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is well written. It provides a detailed and candid assessment of the project's implementation experience and
is sufficiently outcome oriented. Its arguments are backed by evidence where available and its lessons are drawn from
the analysis of the project experience. The following shortcomings in the quality of the ICR are noted:
   There are inconsistencies in the data reported on project costs within the ICR and between the ICR and the PAD.
     The costs by component reported on pg. 14 do not match those reported in the cost by component table in Annex
     1 pg. 22. In addition, the actual costs by project component (table a, annex 1) are $29.16 but the actual costs by
     financing source (table b) are $ 29.7. These should be equal. The planned component costs reported on pg.14 of
     the ICR do not match those shown in the PAD.
   The discussion of government performance was limited.
   The ICR does not follow IEG's convention for assessing project outcomes, in which the project's outcome rating
     takes into account three dimensions of project performance: relevance (of objectives and of design), achievement
     of objectives, and efficiency. Each dimension is rated separately, in addition to the overall project outcome rating.
     In this ICR relevance of design is neither discussed nor rated and project efficiency is discussed but is not rated.
     In addition the ICR ratings of the achievement of objectives do not correspond to the IEG/OPCS harmonized
     guidelines rating scale. The ICR rates the achievement of the second objective as "partially achieved", which is
     not an official rating.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
