Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16183
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT
(Loan 2975-BR)
December 19, 1996
FILE COPY
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division (LAlIU)
Country Department I
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Brazilian Real (R$)                                100 Centavos
US$1                                       =       R$1 (as of July 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Metric Ton (m ton)                       =       1,000 Kilograms (kg)
1 Metric Ton (m ton)                       =      2,204 Pounds (lb)
1 Meter (m)                                       3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)                                  0.62 Mile (mi)
1 Cubic Meter (m3)                         =      35.3 Cubic Feet (ft3)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Acting Vice President           Mr. Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Director                 Ms. Constance Bernard
Division Chief                  Mr. Asif Faiz
Task Manager                   : Mr. Moazzam Mekan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIST OF ACRONYMS
BNH           Banco Nacional de Habitacao (National Housing Bank)
CBERJ         Corpo de Bombeiros do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (State firefighting Corp)
CEDAE         Companhia Estadual de Agua e Esgoto (State Water and Sewerage Company)
CEF           Caixa Economica Federal (National Savings Bank)
CEHAB         Companhia Estadual de Habitaqao (State Low-income Housing Company)
COPPE         Coordenacao dos Programas de Post Graduacao em Engenharia (Post-Graduate
School of Engineering of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro)
FEEMA         Funda;ao Estadual de Engenharia de Meio Ambiente (State Foundation for
Environmental Engineering)
FGTS          Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servicio (Employee Indemnity Fund)
FIEF          Fundacao Instituto Estadual de Florestas (State Forestry Institute)
FUNDREM    Fundacao para o Desenvolvimento da Region Metropolitana do Rio de Janeiro
(Foundation for the Development of the Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro)
GEORIO        Fundacao Instituto de Geotecnica do Municipio do Rio de Janeiro (Geotechnical
Institute of the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro)
GEROE         Grupo Executivo para Recupera;ao e Obras de Emergencia (Executive Group for
Reconstruction and Emergency Works of the State of Rio de Janeiro)
IBAM          Instituto Brasileiro de Administracao Municipal (Brazilian Institute of Municipal
Administration)
ICMS          lInposto sobre Operacoes Relativas a Circulacao de Mercadorias e Servicios
(Taxe on Circulation of Goods and Services)
IDB           Interamerican Development Bank
IPLANRIO    Empresa Municipal de Informatica e Planejamento S.A. (Rio de Janeiro's
Municipal Enterprise of Data Processing and Planning)
RJMR          Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region
SECPLAN       Secretaria de Planejamento (Secretariat of Planning of the State of Rio de
Janeiro)
SEDUR         Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Urbano e Regional (Secretariat of Urban and
Regional Development of the State of Rio de Janeiro)
SEMA          Secretaria de Meio Ambiente (Secretariat of the Environment of the State of Rio
de Janeiro)
SERLA         Superintendencia Estadual de Rios e Lagoas (State Superintendency of Rivers and
Lakes)
SMA           Secretaria de Estado de Meio Ambiente (State Secretariat of the Environment)
SOSP          Secretaria de Estado de Obras e Servicos Publicos (State Secretariat of Public
Works and Services)
UFRJ          Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (Federal University of Rio de Janeiro)
UERJ          Universidade Estadual do Rio de Janeiro (State University of Rio de Janeiro)
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. ls contents may not othermise be disclosed vwithout World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Palm
Preface .............................i
Evaluation Summary ............................i
Part I-  Project Implementation Assessment
Project Objectives.                                                                        1
Achievement of Project Objectives.                                                         1
Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                                      9
Project Sustainability ..............                                                    13
Bank Performance ..............                                                          16
Borrower Performance ..............                                                      17
Assessment of Outcome ..............  19
Future Operation ..............                                                          19
Key Lessons Learned ..............                                                       20
Part II- Statistical Annexes
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments .23
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits .25
Table 3:  Project Timetable .26
Table 4:         Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .27
Table 5:         Key Indicators for Project Implementation .28
Table 6:         Key Indicators for Project Operation .33
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project .36
Table 8A:  Project Costs .47
Table 8B:  Project Financing .48
Table 9:         Economic Costs and Benefits .........................................   49
Table 10:         Status of Legal Covenants .........................................    51
Table 11:        Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................    58
Table 12:        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ......................    ...................   59
Table 13:        Bank Resources: Missions .........................................      60
Annex 1           Resettlement Component .........................................       62
Annex 2           Main Factors for Delays During Project Implementation ........    64
Appendixes:
A - Borrower contribution to the ICR .......................                    Appendix A
B - Map .......................                                                 Appendix B



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975-BR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rio Flood Reconstruction and
Prevention Project in Brazil, for which Loan 2975-BR, in the amount of US$175 million
equivalent was approved on June 4, 1988 and made effective on December 29, 1988.
The loan was closed on September 30, 1995, seven years after Board approval and four
and a half years beyond the original closing date of March 31, 1991. An amount of US$6.8 million
was canceled on December 1994. Final disbursement took place on December 28, 1995, at which
time a balance of US$902,596 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Dominique Babelon and Charles Dahan, consultants, under the
supervision of Moazzam A. Mekan (task manager), from the Infrastructure and Urban
Development Division (LAI IU) of Country Department 1, the Latin America and Caribbean
Region. It was reviewed by Asif Faiz (Division Chief, LAIIU) and Orville Grimes (Project
Adviser). The borrower provided comments that are included as appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Banks final supervision/completion mission
(November 1995). It is based on project completion reports prepared by the borrower (Caixa
Economica Federal - CEF), the Government of the State of Rio de Janeiro and the Municipality of
Rio de Janeiro, which are available in the project file; materials in the Bank project files; visits to
the field and discussions with project institutions by the consultants; and studies of the Post-
Graduate School of Engineering of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (COPPE/UFRJ). The
borrower also contributed to the preparation of the ICR by assisting Bank consultants with the
organization of visits and meetings, contributing to discussions during these meetings, and
commenting on the.earlier draft of the ICR. The current ICR takes into account the comments
made by the borrower.



Evaluation Summary
Objectives and Achievement of Objectives
1. The project was designed as an emergency response to damage from severe floods in the
Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro at the end of February 1988. It had three major objectives:
(a) to assist state and municipal authorities in the Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro in urgent
reconstruction and rehabilitation made necessary by the floods and landslides; (b) to implement
essential phiysical works designed to minimize and prevent future flood damage; and (c) to assist
state and municipal authorities in developing a program and the institutional capacity to cope better
witlh future emergencies.
2. The project included reconstructionl componlenits such as repair of roads and bridges, repair and
rehabilitation of public buildings damaged, and the provision of minimally serviced sites for families
whose homes were destroyed during the floods and landslides. Except for repair of buildings (which
had already been reconstructed by the time funds became available), implemenitation of the above
components was substantially in accordance with the original objectives.
3. The Project also included works and equipmenit designed to minimize and prevent damage
otherwise likely to occur during any major rainfall, includinig optimization of the drainage system;
slope stabilization; construction of sewerage systems; improvement of solid waste collection and
disposal; construction of serviced lots needed for the resettlement of families relocated due to the
above works and of families in high risk-areas; and purchiase of emergency rescue equipment needed
for flood-relief activities by civil defense. Implementation of the most costly compolnents, such as
optimization of the drainage systems, stabilization of slopes, constructioni of sewerage systems and
provision of serviced sites, was substantially in accordance with project objectives -- these
components accounted for 80% of actual projects costs, in line withi appraisal estimates. However,
implementation of the less costly components, yet those most necessary to ensuire project
sustaiinability, such as solid waste collection and disposal, and reforestation, was at most partial.
These often required prior institutional improvements and policy changes wilichi were not addressed.
4. To ensure sustainability of project actions, the project included a number of studies and
programs. Their implementation was uneven. Among those to be carried out by the State of Rio de
Janeiro, the digital and convenitional mapping of the State of Rio de Janeiro and the Paraiba do Sul
water basin, and the Master Plan for the lguacu River Basin, were successfuilly completed. The
Slope Stabilization Plan for the State of Rio and of the Solid Waste Managemenit Plan for the
Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro were only partially implemented. The Environmental
Education Program was very limited in its concept and achievemenlts. The program to strengthien the
fiscal administrationi of beneficiary municipalities, was only partly completed, and no follow Lip
actions were taken. Finally, the Civil Defense Plan for the Metropolitan Region and the
Reforestation Plan for the State of Rio de Janeiro were essentially canceled.
5. Among studies carried out by the Municipality of Rio, envirolimenital educationi programs were
never implemented. The same happenied withi the program for inspectioni and control of illegal and
informal mineral exploration. However, all other studies and programs were successfully
implemented, including the program for institutionial strengthiniig of the fiscal administrationl of the
Municipality of Rio, which led to significant improvements in municipal finances and a number of



ii
additional studies incorporated into the project in 1993 concerned with socio-economic policies and
urban planning in the Metropolitan region of Rio de Janeiro. Many of these studies have been
published and are currently used bv public and private entities for better integrated urban
development planning in the Metropolitan Region. An evaluation of the Municipality of Rio's
resettlement component under the Project was also carried out, which is being used to adjust
municipal housing policies and resettlement procedures.
6. The project only partly reached its financial objectives. While the financial condition of the
Municipality of Rio did improve significantly, this was not the case for the State and Municipalities
in the Baixada. The State of Rio is currently carrying out a major state reform program addressing
critical issues of financial adjustment and the efficiency of state administration.
7. At the end of 1996, when fully completed, total project costs will amount to US$406 million,
only 3% higher than estimated at appraisal. Except for the State of Rio de Janeiro, which contributed
more than planned (US$46.2 million , compared to an appraisal estimate of US$19.8 million), in the
end, despite important delays and several changes in the financing plan during project
implementation, all parties met their funding commitments agreed at appraisal. Only US$7.6 million
was canceled from the Bank Loan.
8. Project results are significant. It is estimated that the project has reduced by 40% the total
floodable area (under rainfall conditions similar to those of 1988). An ex-post cost/benefit analysis
carried out by the Post-graduate School of Engineering of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro
shows very significant returns for the drainage components (the largest of the project). During the
heavy 1996 rainfalls, which so much affected other areas and would normally have caused
substantial damage, there were no reported floods in the project areas. Substantial benefits have
resulted for the beneficiaries, as the project broke the steady impoverishment cycle brought about by
repeated floods, and also improved health conditions. For the slope stabilization component, there
are few quantitative indicators of project impact, but there has been a significant decrease in fatalities
and accidents in Rio and Petropolis since 1988, probably due to the project, and to subsequent
preventive investments of the same nature. During the 1996 rainfall, there were no fatalities in the
project areas, however, if a comprehensive civil defense plan had been developed as planned under
the project and implemented, losses of lives in 1996 could have been reduced in areas which did not
benefit from project investments. With respect to the resettlement components, evaluation studies
carried out by the State and the Municipality of Rio show a high degree of overall satisfaction of
beneficiaries, although many have complained about the lack of public services.
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
9. The project objectives were substantially achieved, but with major delays. During
implementation, although the project formally remained an emergency project, the closing date was
postponed four times, until September 30, 1995, i.e., four and a half years beyond the original
closing date. Implementation thus took seven years from loan signing, compared to two and a half
years estimated at appraisal. These delays were due to the highi complexity of the project and to a
combination of factors subject to federal and state government control, implementing agencies
control, and contractors' performance. Bank disbursement procedures also contributed to delays.
10. It is necessary to assess these delays within the political, institutional and economic context at
the time. The project was the first major operation financed in the State of Rio de Janeiro by any
multilateral agency since twenty years, and the first Bank loan to CEF since its merging with the



iii
National Housing Bank (BNH) in 1986. Neither the state or CEF had experience or had developed
institutional mechanisms to manage such a project. Furthermore, -Implementation took place during
a period of political and macro-economic turmoil: the project implementation period overlapped
with four federal, three state, and three municipal administrations, with consequent disruptions from
lack of continuity and changes in priorities in allocation of funds; high inflation periods, interrupted
by four successive stabilization plans, affected the availability of funds to the Employee Indemnity
Fund (FGTS), the main source of counterpart funds for the project, and to the state budget; finally,
the new 1988 Constitution resulted in substantial changes in the share of tax allocated to states and
municipalities which were not anticipated at appraisal, impacting negatively on the state's ability to
carry out the project and positively on the municipality's.
1 1. The project was highly complex in its content and organization. It included a total of 15
components (8 implemented by the state, 5 by the municipality of Rio and 2 by other municipalities),
and 22 studies ( 8 carried out by the state and 14 by the municipality of Rio). It was to be
implemented by 9 state and 8 municipal agencies. This complexity required complicated decision-
making and coordination mechanisms, and information systems, particularly at the state level, which,
due to lack of continuity in state government administrations with different approaches, and other
factors, did not function consistently (except in 1995, the last year of the project, when state
coordination improved under the Alencar State administration). As a result, Caixa Economica
Federal (CEF), the Borrower, came to assume most coordination functions.
12. The most significant source of delays was the unavailability of federal counterpart funds, which
essentially paralyzed the project during the first two years of implementation, and continued to
significantly slow it down during the subsequent two years. The second most significant source of
delays (which resulted in an additional two-year delay of the largest project component) was in
contract execution and design of the state drainage works, due to the detection of irregularities in
contract execution (works were stopped pending results of special audits and negotiations with
contractors for the refund of overbilled quantities), and the need to perform an Overall Conceptual
Design Study to reformulate priorities for drainage works and make design changes aimed at
eliminating over-design and minimizing relocation costs. Other sources of delays were: (a)State
defaults on its debt to CEF in 1991 and part of 1992; (b) Bank management of the Special Account in
1994 (early recovery of the account); and (c) delays in the resettlement components, which in turn
slowed down implementation of the drainage components.
13. On the other hand, tight deadlines for contracting and implementation imposed at the time of
successive closing date extensions contributed to the abandonment or partial implementation of a
number of studies and programs. In December 1994, to bring the project to closure, priority was
given to the completion of the drainage, slope containment and resettlement components, and all
studies and works which had not yet been contracted were abandoned. The Solid Waste component
was the most severely affected by the desire to close the Loan. The responsibility for completing the
solid waste processing plants was to be assumed by the state out of its own funds. To this date
(August 1996), due to lack of State funds, timing of completion of this component is uncertain and
its efficient operation is far from assured. Furthermore, institutional responsibilities for operation
and maintenance of these solid waste processing plants are not defined and corresponding cost
recovery mechanisms are not in place; and a strong program of environmental education has not
been designed to support project effectiveness.



iv
Sustainability
14. Project sustainability critically depends on the development and implementation of integrated
actions in the areas of drainage and slope stabilization systems maintenance, solid waste collection
and disposal, reforestation, civil defense, environmental education, and institutional strengthening of
municipalities. Many of these programs were only partially implemented or not implemented at all.
Although some IDB-financed projects which emerged out of the project will enhance project
sustainability, it will remain uncertain unless these and other follow up programs are carried out.
15. The project slope stabilization components within the boundaries of Rio and Petropolis are the
most likely to be sustainable. In Rio, the Geotechnical Institute of the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro
(GEORIO) has continued to invest heavily in slope stabilization after project completion, and has
steadily moved from corrective to preventive works and measures. GEORIO is also establishing an
early warning system in collaboration with municipal civil defense services.
16. With respect to drainage works carried out by the state, in August 1995, the State
Superintendency of Rivers and Lakes (SERLA) prepared a plan for maintenance of drainage works.
As of July 1996, however, SERLA had not received this budget (estimated at about US$3.5 million
per year).
17. For the two most important river basins of the Baixada Fluminense (Iguacu and Sarapui rivers).
all remaining drainage-related deficiencies have been clearly identified in the Master Plan for the
Rios Iguasu/Sarapui River Basin. By everyone's recognition, this plan was highly successful in
presenting an integrated program of actions aimed at complete flood control in the entire basin, in
close consultation with local communities. The total cost of implementation of the plan is estimated
at about US$368 million, and should be included in the public investment programs of the state and
the concerned municipalities. A similar plan should be developed for the remaining river basisn in
the Baixada. Implementation of these plans would require external financial assistance. However,
current limitations on state and municipal indebtedness capacity may delay early implementation of
this program targeted at improving the living conditions of some of the poorest inhabitants in the Rio
metropolitan area.
18. It is likely that some projects, which followed and partly emerged out of the experience and
approaches developed under this project, will contribute in part toward its long-term sustainability:
these are: (a) the state and IDB-financed Guanabara Bay pollution control project, which will
provide basic sanitation infrastructure and complete the network of solid waste treatment and
disposal facilities in the Baixada; (b) the state and IDB-financed "Baixada Viva" project, which aims
at providing a number of low-income communities in the Baixada with an integrated package of
urban infrastructure and social equipment and services, developed in conjunction with these
communities (including flood control investments totaling about US$80 million, identified under the
Igua;u River Master Plan); (c) the "Favela Bairro" project of the Municipality of Rio (also supported
by IDB), with approaches similar to that of the Baixada Viva project, aiming at integrating the Rio
slum areas ("favelas") into the city; and (d) the PROSANEAR project, which provides basic
sanitation infrastructure in many favelas of Rio de Janeiro. Finally, the state and the municipality of
Rio are also preparing flood and landslide control projects in the areas affected by the 1996 rains
(Jacarepagua and Itaguai, in particular).



v
Bank Performance
19. Bank performance was highly satisfactory in terms of responsiveness to client needs since the
operation was prepared in record time. Conditions essential to the sustainability of the project were
also well identified, resulting in the inclusion of a number of important studies, plans and programs
under the project. However, preparation and appraisal were deficient with regard to: (i) the project
timetable (which was unrealistic); (ii) the financial and institutional analysis of CEF (which was
lacking); and (iii) at the Bank's insistence, the exclusion of house construction from the project
resettlement component, even when resettlement was caused by project works requirements. Bank
performance with respect to supervision, however, was generally highly satisfactory in terms of
quality and intensity. The Bank should however have been more focused on the studies and
programs needed for project sustainability - these components did not receive sufficient or timely
attention either from the Bank, the Borrower, or the executing agencies, and no clear concepts were
developed about how these studies would be used. The Bank should also have recognized the
unrealistic timetable of the project and early on formally transformed it into a regular investment
project, thus allowing proper planning of those actions requiring a longer time to mature. In the end,
the project took seven years until closing, in line with the timing of regular investment projects.
Finally, the Special Account should have been better managed to support the project funding
required for its timely implementation.
Borrower Performance
20. Except towards the end of the project , the performance of CEF, the borrower, was
unsatisfactory with respect to the provision of counterpart funding, but highly satisfactory in terms of
project coordination and monitoring. The performance of the State of Rio de Janeiro was uneven:
The State did provide more than the required counterpart funding and did secure the counterpart
funding required by CEF from the Federal Government, by no means a small achievement. On the
other hand, except in the last year of the project, the Executive Group for Reconstruction and
Emergency Works of the State of Rio de Janeiro (GEROE), the state project coordination group, was
generally deficient due to lack of continuity through three state administrations, and to over-
centralization. State executing entities were generally weak. Project management within SERLA
improved dramatically in early 1991 when the new Brizola administration brought a team of
excellent professionals from the Federal University of Rio (UFRJ), which took over management,
but the experience gained in the project was not internalized within SERLA.
21. With respect to the municipalities, except during 1993, the first year of the Maia administration,
and with the notable exception of the environmental education program, the Municipality of Rio de
Janeiro consistently performed very well both with respect to project execution and financial
performance. The municipality of Petropolis also performed well, after initial difficulties. The
municipalities of the Baixada Fluminense, however, did not participate much in the project and did
not carry out the financial and institutional strengthening actions which would have helped promote
project sustainability. In contrast, the Baixada community associations were strongly involved in
the implementation of the state drainage component and related resettlement activities, and this
proved to be essential to their successful implementation.



vi
Assessment of Outcome and Key Lessons Learned
22. On balance, the project outcome may be rated as satisfactory: the project achieved its major
objectives, although with considerable delay. These delays were partly due to originally unrealistic
timetables. Its benefits, in terms of avoided floods and landslides and associated fatalities and losses
may be presumed high, and the project was strongly poverty-oriented. The project was also the first
Bank operation with the State and the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro and the first collaboration
between the Bank and CEF after its merging with the National Housing Bank (BNH) and contributed
to the establishment within these institutions of project coordination mechanisms and structures
which were later used for other operations with international agencies. The following key lessons
may be learned from the project: (a) large-scale preventive investments, which require time to
mature in their selection and design, should not be part of an emergency recovery project, but of a
follow-up project, or, alternatively, a second phase prepared under the emergency phase, but with
normal investment implementation schedules and preparation requirements; (b) whenever possible,
project design should be simplified, and when complex projects such as this one are unavoidable,
project coordination mechanisms, while avoiding over-centralization, should be designed to make
executing agencies responsible and accountable; (c) appraisal of emergency projects should not
dispense with financial and institutional appraisal of the financial intermediary and cofinancier; (d)
for the resettlement of homeless due to floods or other catastrophic events and/or resettlement of
families associated with the implementation of works in risky areas, the project should provide for
financing and construction of housing; (e) involvement and participation of community associations
is essential in mobilizing local support for the project, and in integrating community views and needs
in the resettlement actions; (f) contributions from users, communities and municipalities is an
alternative that should be explored to finance maintenance of drainage infrastructure and generate the
right incentives to keep the area safe from floods; (g) all measures and programs necessary to ensure
sustainability are as, or more, important than physical investments, so their satisfactory and timely
implementation should be incorporated into dated covenants; 100% financing for these measures
should be provided out of the loan; and they should be the last components to be canceled; (h) such
components also need more careful and thorough preparation with clearly defined objectives and
implementation strategy after studies are completed; as successful implementation usually requires
prior institutional improvements and policy changes, time required for their definition and
implementation normally extends beyond the schedule of a emergency project; implementation
should better be part of a regular follow-up investment project together with large preventive
drainage works; and (h) procurement of large works should not take place before detailed designs
have been completed or are well advanced, and detailed designs should not be contracted from the
construction company; finally, it is as important to supervise contract implementation as it is to
oversee the procurement process.



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
BRAZIL
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT
(Loan 2975 - BR)
A. Project Objectives
1. The project had three major objectives: (a) to assist state and municipal authorities in the
Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro in urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation made necessary by the
recent floods and landslides; (b) to implement essential physical works designed to minimize and prevent
future flood damage; and (c) to assist state and municipal authorities in developing a program and the
institutional capacity to cope better with future emergencies.
2. The project objectives were clear. It was designed as an emergency response to damage from severe
floods in the Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro in March 1988. However, the nature of the damage,
the wide geographical disaster-affected area and the potential risk of recurrence of such severe floods in the
Metropolitan Region required more than directly-targeted reconstruction and rehabilitation objectives. It
demanded a broader view of urban environmental management focused on prevention, and the inclusion of
large preventive physical works (such as drainage, slope stabilization, and solid waste collection and
disposal) and institutional strengthening (coordination between entities, policies, plans, and instruments)
that would in time reduce the risk of damages from heavy rains in the Rio area and lead to an increased and
sustainable capacity for dealing with Rio's serious environmental problems.
3. The project timetable was not realistic. The two and a half years implementation period as envisaged
at appraisal was too optimistic, influenced by the emergency nature of the project and the desire to take
advantage of the momentum created by the flood by including ambitious long-term preventive measures'.
Because of the share in the project of the preventive actions and investrnents (about 70%) and the
importance for project sustainability of the institutional strengthening programs to cope with emergencies, a
longer implementation period of 6/7 years, as for a typical environmental sanitation project, would have
been more reasonable.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
4. Given the original emergency nature of the project, the key implementation indicators as stated in the
Memorandum of the President and Loan Agreement's Schedule 2 (project Description) reflected the broad
scope of works to be carried out. Subsequently, in March 1990 and March 1993, although there was no
change in the scope and size of the project, Schedule 2 was amended to: (i) reflect better defined and more
accurate physical targets; (ii) take into account delays in project implementation (Section C); and (iii)
reflect changes in priorities among sub-components for both the State and the Municipality of Rio, based
on mid-course evaluations. Key implementation indicators as estimated at appraisal and included in the
Loan Agreement, as formally modified in subsequent amendments, and as actually observed, are presented
in Table 5.
Both the State and Rio were reluctant to agree to the Bank's proposal at appraisal to separate prevention from
reconstruction. It was felt that after presidential elections, the Federal Government might become reluctant to
support a follow-up project once the immediate emergency conditions were overcome.



2
Reconstruction andRehabilitation Objectives
5. The project included reconstruction components such as repair of roads and bridges, repair and
rehabilitation of public buildings damaged and the provision of minimally serviced sites for families whose
homes were destroyed during the floods and landslides. Except for repair of buildings, the implementation
of the above components was substantially in accordance with the original objectives: (i) US$36.4 million
was invested, compared to about US$40 million (including contingencies), estimated at appraisal, to repair
10 roads and 10 bridges and build retaining walls at various points along seven roads; and (ii) compared to
the 1,120 serviced sites to be provided at appraisal to families made homeless by the floods, as of May 31,
1996, the Municipality of Rio had delivered 1,772 serviced lots2 in five areas and urbanized an existing
area with about 2,700 lots in Nova Cidade; the Municipality of Petropolis urbanized five existing areas,
with a total population of about 531 families, where families whose homes had been destroyed during the
floods and landslides had moved, and is about to complete the urbanization of three more areas with a total
population of 500 families (details on implementation of the resettlement component, including costs,
areas, type and number of families, are presented in Annex 1). Due to long initial delays in project
implementation, rehabilitation of public buildings was limited - compared to the US$11.5 million estimated
at appraisal for repairs to schools, public buildings and state water supply installations, only US$ 1.4
million will have been spent (of which US$268,000 are still to be completed) to repair only two schools and
two water supply pipes. (others were rebuilt or repaired out of municipal funds).
Preventive Objectives
6. The project included works designed to minimize and prevent damage otherwise likely to occur during
any major rainfalls, including optimization of the drainage system through dredging of canals and rivers,
channeling of rivers, and construction of regulating dams; slope stabilization; construction of sewerage
systems; improvement of solid waste collection and disposal; construction of serviced lots needed for the
resettlement of families relocated due to the above works and of families in high risk-areas; and purchase of
emergency rescue equipment needed for flood-relief activities by civil defense. Implementation of the most
costly components, such as optimization of the drainage systems, stabilization of slopes, construction of
sewerage systems and provision of serviced sites, was substantially in accordance with project objectives.
These components accounted for 80% of actual projects costs, in line with appraisal estimates. However,
implementation of the less costly components, yet those most necessary to ensure project sustainability such
as solid waste collection and disposal, reforestation, and civil defense, was at most partial. These often
required prior institutional improvements and policy changes which were not addressed.
7. After long delays, the drainage component was redesigned to reflect reformulated priorities, minimize
costs and optimize results (para. 33). It then came to include dredging of 63 km and channeling of 35 kIn,
in six river basins of the Baixada Fluminense, construction of the important Campo de Gericino regulating
dam on the Sarapui and Pavuna rivers, and other channeling works in six river basins in the Municipality
of Rio. These works, which have already had a major effect in reducing flooding in the Baixada
Fluminense (para. 24 (a)), required total investments of US$176 million (including US$17.3 million by the
Municipality of Rio), of which about US$17 million was still needed to complete this component as of
December 31, 1995. These amounts are very close to appraisal estimates. As of May 30, 1996: out of a
total of 51 work lots to be implemented by the State Super-intendency for Rivers and Lakes (SERLA), 39
had been completed, seven had a physical progress of more than 80%, and five lots between 20% and 70%
completed -- These works are being completed with State and CEF funds. As of that date, the
2 The Municipality of Rio not only distributed urbanized lots to homeless families, as part of the project, but also
assisted them with the construction of houses out of its own funds.



3
Municipality of Rio had completed its program of macro-drainage works in five rivers; however, the
channeling of the Rio Carioca had not been completed. The Municipality of Rio is contracting the
additional works out of its own funds.
8. The slope stabilization component has been completed, and required a total of US$ 50.6 million
(US$28.4 million in Rio and US$22.2 in Petropolis), compared with about US$65 million, including
contingencies, estimated at appraisal. This was the component best implemented. Although amounts
spent have been lower than initially estimated, works implemented were more than estimated at appraisal
(122 locations, of which 52 in Rio), since they included 152 work lots in 68 locations in Rio, and 25 work
lots in 500 locations in Petropolis. This was because specific technical solutions were adapted to each
situation including integration of drainage and urbanization works on populated slopes. At appraisal it
was agreed that with the help of technical assistance the State would also prepare an integrated medium and
long term development plan for slope containment in the State of Rio. A plan was prepared under an
agreement with the State University of Rio (UERJ). However, this plan was limited to three municipalities,
and did not address the areas most affected by the heavy rains of 1996.
9. The construction of the sewerage system component cost US$50.5 million, compared to US$30.3
million (including contingencies) estimated at appraisal. However, these resources were concentrated on
the construction of the Gramacho sewerage collection and treatment system.
10. Except for 372 houses which are being completed by the Municipality of Rio (Roquete Pinto),
relocation offamilies associated with preventive actions in drainage works and high-risk areas were
implemented by the State. At appraisal, only minimally serviced sites were to be provided, and funds for
housing loans were not included under the project. Houses of 44 m2 with necessary infrastructure including
water, sewerage, electricity, drainage, paved roads, community equipment and installations have been
provided to all relocated families to permit execution of civil works under the drainage component, and to
families living in areas of extreme risk. Resettlement was carried out according to a plan with a timetable
and budget that required frequent revisions over the life of the project. At appraisal, estimates prepared
under emergency conditions were to resettle about 8,280 families from drainage works areas and 1,600
families from high-risk areas. Later analysis, improved design of the drainage component and adoption of
alternative solutions reduced the total number of families to be relocated away from drainage works and
high-risk areas to about 3,428 families3. Although delays in concluding construction of necessary houses
for famnilies living in the construction areas have caused bottlenecks in drainage works (para. 34), as of
May 31, 1996: (a) the State had delivered 2,726 houses (1,942 to families displaced by drainage works and
784 to families from high-risk areas) and the remaining 270 houses were about to be completed (Annex 1);
and (b) the Municipality of Rio had delivered 266 houses for relocation from high-risk areas. CEF will
provide the US$2.6 million necessary for the completion of this component.
11. At appraisal the project did identify risks of recurring floods due to uncollected garbage and
inappropriate disposal of solid wastes in canals and rivers, and provided for six composting plants, 149
trucks and other vehicles for solid waste collection, in addition to: (a) the provision of technical assistance
for Municipalities to improve solid waste collection; and (b) the preparation of a solid waste disposal
master plan for the metropolitan region of Rio de Janeiro, based on a technical, financial, institutional,
economic and environmental appraisal. As of mid-1996, technical assistance to municipalities had not
3  Due to the need to include financing for house construction for families relocated from drainage works and
risky areas, it is estimated that the total cost of the resettlement component, when completed, (including
serviced lots and/or urbanization for people made homeless due to floods) will reach US$49.4 million, much
higher than the appraisal estimate of US$37.6 million (which included US$11.3 million for land purchases).



4
been provided. A solid waste master plan was completed in March 1991. However, it focused on physical
inftastructure and equipment needs, neglecting the important operational, cost recovery and institutional
aspects. Based on this plan and on funds available, the solid waste disposal component was downsized to
four composting plants in March 1993. The Japeri plant was later canceled from the project. Three
composting plants, including recycling facilities, hospital waste incinerators and sanitary landfills with
necessary mobile equipment and vehicles, were contracted by the State Secretary of Works and Public
Services (SOSP). As of May 31, 1996, all equipment had been delivered. The Belford Roxo plant works
were 63% completed and construction was continuing at very slow pace, though there is no funding for the
access road and garbage continues to pile up at the entrance to the plant. The Nova Iguaqu and Queimados
plants were about 50% completed, but their construction was stopped due to lack of funds. To resume
works, SOSP would now have to re-negotiate the existing construction contracts. Total actual costs
estimates of this component are US$6.88 million, including US$1.84 million necessary for completion
(however, SOSP indicated that, due the above delays, completion costs are likely to increase to more than
US$3 million). At appraisal, a total cost of about US$7.6 million (including contingencies) had been
included for this component.
12. Initially the project included the reforestation of 1,200 hectares to stabilize 30 steep slopes, to be
implemented by the State Secretariat of Environment (SMA), through its State Forestry Institute (FIEF).
In March 1993, this component was downsized to consist of the reforestation of 900 hectares (in Rio and
Petropolis). In fact, in a first phase, 297 hectares were reforested in Rio but were almost completely lost
due to lack of maintenance. In a second phase, 448 hectares were reforested in the municipalities of Rio
and Nova Iguacu, but are also not in good condition due to poor maintenance by FIEF. Total cost
amounted to US$3.9 million, compared to US$7.46 million estimated at appraisal (including
contingencies). Related to this component and included in the project's technical assistance component, the
State was to prepare a comprehensive, detailed, integrated medium and long term reforestation plan for the
state of Rio. This study was not implemented, due to FIEF's inability to submit acceptable terms of
reference (Table 7).
13. The issue of civil defense in case of disaster was to be addressed under the project through: (a) the
acquisition of emergency rescue vehicles and equipment; and (b) the preparation, with technical assistance
contracted by GEROE, of an in-depth civil defense plan for the Greater Metropolitan Region of Rio,
covering different types of possible disasters (Table 7). The State Fire Fighters Corp (CBERJ) did
purchase emergency fire-fighting, salvage and rescue vehicles, for a total cost of US$5.8 million (compared
to US$6.8 million estimated at appraisal). However, spare parts for this equipment were not purchased
under the loan, due to a procurement problem. In March 1992, a first civil defense plan was submitted to
the Bank, but this plan was judged unacceptable by the Bank - it focused on the Baixada Fluminense and
Avenida Brazil and consisted of additional equipment requirements, a plan for training civil defense staff,
and TORs for hydro-meteorological studies. Nevertheless, in 1994, GEROE eventually hired a consultant
to execute the plan. Since the consultant was not hired according to Bank guidelines, and comments made
by the Bank in March 1992 and February 1993 to the first plan were seemingly not incorporated in the
TORs, it was not financed by the Bank. In the end, implementation was suspended following extinction of
the State Civil Defense Secretariat and was limited to a series of courses in four municipalities on initial
measures to be taken in case of emergency.



5
Institutional Development Objectives
14. To promote the sustainability of project actions, the project included a number of studies and
programs. Their implementation was uneven. Table 7 gives details on the status and impacts of these
studies.
(a) Programs and Studies Carried out by the State
15. As already discussed above, the studies for the preparation of the a Slope Stabilization Plan for the
State of Rio and of a Solid Waste Management Plan for the Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro were
partially implemented, while the studies for the preparation of a Civil Defense Plan for the Metropolitan
Region and of a Reforestation Plan for the State of Rio de Janeiro were essentially canceled.
16. The project also included a program of environmental education, which was very important for its
sustainability. However, implementation was also practically negligible. Due to the inability of the State
Foundation for Environmental Engineering (FEEMA) to produce a concrete program, it was eventually
agreed to limit the program to a pilot project to test and further develop the methodology (for later
expansion of the program under the Guanabara Bay Pollution Control project). Since the contract was
awarded and signed without Bank approval, the Bank refused to finance it. Some actions were funded by
the state government, but were limited to training of community agents and production of promotion
material.
17. The preparation of a program to strengthen the fiscal administration of the beneficiary municipalities,
in order to improve the operation and maintenance of project actions, was initiated in December 1989,
under a cooperation contract between the Secretariat of Urban and Regional Development of the State of
Rio de Janeiro (SEDUR), UERJ (Nucleo Superior de Estudos Fazendarios- NUSEF) and the Foundation
for the Development of the Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro (FUNDREM). It was only partly
completed, actions were limited to identification of deficiencies and need for remedial actions, and no
follow-up actions were taken.
18. A number of additional studies were included in the project under the March 1993 amendment. One of
these was the digital and conventional mapping of the State of Rio de Janeiro and the Paraiba do Sul water
basin (using satellite imagery). This was successfully implemented under the responsibility of the State
Planning Secretariat, and is already being used for planning under Guanabara Bay Pollution Control
project and the preparation of a Water Resources project for the Paraiba do Sul basin.
19. At the Bank request, the preparation of the water resources master plan for the Iguacu River basin was
included in the March 1993 amendment to the Loan Agreement. The main objectives of this study were to:
(i) contribute to the establishment of a water resources management system of the state of Rio de Janeiro;
(ii) elaborate a master plan for the Igua;u/ Sarapui basin with emphasis on flood control; and (iii) outline
long-range strategies for implementation of the plan and its expansion to other areas. This study, which is
probably the most important implemented under the project, was carried out by a team of the Post-graduate
School of Engineering of the Federal University of Rio (COPPE/UFRJ) in collaboration with SERLA,
under an agreement with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). When implemented, the
program would eliminate flooding of inhabited areas in the basin and develop ways to ensure sustainability
(principally waste collection, reforestation, natural resource management, and zoning). Since the program
was developed with the continuous participation and full support of affected populations, it is likely to be
sustainable if implemented. This study paved the way for the development of similar programs for the
Guanabara Bay, Paraiba do Sul river basin and others(e.g., the Jacarepagua basin). This study has helped



6
build a very capable team within COPPE/UERJ, which is also now participating in the design of the
Baxaida Viva Program (para. 48).
(b) Programs and Studies Carried out by the Municipality of Rio
20. The project included educational programs to be implemented by the Municipality of Rio. These
programs, which were to be implemented in the Rio favelas by the Municipal Secretariat for Social
Development, included actions important for project sustainability (handling and disposal of solid waste,
low-cost housing construction using self-help methods, prevention of reoccupation of hazardous sites,
forestry protection). It also included a program for inspection and control of illegal and informal mineral
exploration. Final TORs were approved by the Bank, but, like the State environmental education
component, these programs were never implemented, in part due to safety problems in accessing favelas.
The same happened with the program for inspection and control of illegal and informal mineral exploration
, for which TORs were approved in April 1991.
21. The program for institutional strengthening of the fiscal administration of the Municipality of Rio,
originally included in the project, however, was successfully implemented. In 1988, with its own funds, the
municipality of Rio contracted the first phase of a program of elaboration and permanent updating of its
property cadaster. The second phase was contracted under the project, directly from the Rio de Janeiro's
Municipal Enterprise of Data Processing and Planning (IPLANRIO) in December 1990, and completed in
March 1991. The third phase ofthis program was also contracted under the project in December 1991,
and was completed. Since 1988, this cadaster updating has contributed to substantial improvements in the
Municipality of Rio's financial situation, and has helped to implement the agreed financial action plan
(para. 26 and Table 10). IPLANRIO is currently revising and improving this cadaster through the use of
more precise geoprocessing techniques and better integration with municipal finance and urban
development secretariats.
22. The March 30, 1993 Loan Amendment incorporated a number of additional studies concerned with
socio-economic policies and urban planning in the Metropolitan region of Rio de Janeiro. They included:
institutional development and management of the metropolitan region of Rio de Janeiro; review of changes
in financial management of the municipalities of the metropolitan region; transport structure in the
metropolitan region; data communication network in the metropolitan region; evaluation of conservation
units in the metropolitan region; relationship between health and environmental quality in the metropolitan
region; and evaluation of the socio-economic profile of sub-districts in the metropolitan region. Although
these were metropolitan in nature, and hence should have been the responsibility of the State, they were
carried out by the municipality of Rio, on the grounds that Rio's particular geophysical characteristics
made it dependent on the Metropolitan Region. Furthermore, FUNDREM, the metropolitan agency, had
been abolished in 1988. These studies were coordinated by IPLANRIO and were successfully
implemented. Many of these studies have been published and are currently used by public and private
entities for better integrated urban development planning in the Metropolitan Region. An evaluation of the
Municipality of Rio's resettlement component under the project was also included in the above amendment.
This evaluation was contracted in October 1994 and completed in 1995. It is being used to adjust
municipal housing policies and resettlement procedures.
Capital Costs and Financing Plan
23. At the end of 1996, at full completion of the project, total project costs will amount to US$406 million,
only 3% higher than estimated at appraisal. Except for the State of Rio de Janeiro, which contributed more
ftian planned (US$46.2 million, compared to an appraisal estimate of US$19.8 million), in the end, after



7
important delays and changes in the financing plan during project implementation, all parties nearly met
their funding commitments agreed at appraisal -- only US$7.6 million were canceled from the Bank Loan,
out of an initial loan amount of US$175 million. CEF's co-financing reached US$187 million, compared
with the US$190 million initially agreed, and the Municipality of Rio's participation will amount to US$6.0
million, compared to US$8.7 million estimated at appraisal for all municipalities. Details on capital costs
and financing are presented in Tables 8A and 8B.
Project Results
24. It is difficult to compare results with those expected at appraisal, because these were not quantified, and
no indicators of impact were then developed. Nevertheless, the following can be inferred:
(a) with respect to the drainage component in the Baixada Fluminense, studies made under the Rio Iguaqu
Master Plan show that the project has reduced by 40% the total floodable area (under rainfall conditions
similar to those of 1988), benefiting about 140,000 people (out of an estimated total population of 340,000
in the entire 1988 floodable area). During the heavy 1996 rainfalls which so much affected other areas,
about 151 mm fell over the Baixada in a single day (compared with 184 mm in 1988). While not quite as
heavy as in 1988, they would normally have caused substantial damage, yet there were no reported floods in
the project areas. Substantial benefits have resulted for the beneficiaries, as the project broke the steady
impoverishment cycle brought about by repeated floods, and improved health. It is also reported that land
values have increased in project areas and that inhabitants are investing in small businesses and housing
improvements. At the request of the Bank consultants, UFRJ/COPPE prepared an estimated cost/benefit
analysis for the state project drainage investments in the Iguacu/Sarapui river basin (representing about half
of total project state drainage investments), using the mathematical model developed to prioritize investments
under the Rio Iguagu Master Plan. This analysis (which is summarized in Table 9), shows very significant
net benefits. The overall internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the state drainage investments may be
estimated at over 50 %. There are no data available on the impacts of the (much smaller) drainage
component implemented by the Municipality of Rio, but they are likely to be consistent with those of the
state drainage component.
(b) with respect to the slope stabilization component, there are few quantitative indicators of project impact.
However, the Geotechnical Institute of the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro (GEORIO) reports significant
decreases in fatalities and accidents in Rio since 1988, due to the project and subsequent preventive
investments of the same nature. The 73 fatalities (and 2,000 homeless) which occurred in 1996 were not in
the project areas (where 58 fatalities occurred in 1988). They were in the western part of the municipality
(Jacarepagua) and in another municipality to the West (Itaguai), over which 135 mm fell in a single day (and
235 mm over two days). In Petropolis, where 170 deaths were reported in 1988, the number of accidents
has significantly decreased, and no deaths were reported in January-February 1996. Nevertheless, should a
comprehensive civil defense plan have been developed as planned under the project and implemented, losses
of lives in 1996 could have been reduced in areas which did not benefit from project investments.
Currently, GEORIO is completing its risk mapping program in the favelas of the Municipality of Rio and is
establishing an early warning system based on a network of 30 automatic pluviometers and a short term
weather forecasting system. However, this program is limited to the Municipality of Rio.
(c) with respect to the resettlement components, both the state and the municipality of Rio have carried out
ex-post evaluations through surveys of beneficiaries. For resettlement carried-out by the state, the degree of
overall satisfaction reached 70% (83% were satisfied with the process). In the municipality of Rio, the
overall degree of satisfaction of interviewees in the four original settlements was in 1995 reported at between



8
84% and 95%, with high marks for access, street paving, and size of lots, but poor marks with respect to
safety, social services, commercial activity, and maintenance of community equipment. Both studies
stressed the absence of the state and municipal governments in public services. No systematic analysis
exists of the current status of vacated areas.
Financial Objectives
25. The State of Rio de Janeiro - When the project started, the financial situation of the State of Rio de
Janeiro was very weak. This condition worsened during project implementation due to the 1988
constitutional changes, which increased tax transfers to the municipalities at the expenses of the states,
while maintaining their obligations. Under the State Project Agreement, the State of Rio de Janeiro was to
carry out a time-bound financial action program which included: (a) increased revenues from the value
added tax (ICMS); (b) increased water and sewerage tariffs charged by the State Water and Sewerage
Company (CEDAE); (c) development of a program with the Municipalities to introduce differential user
charges for solid waste services; and (d) development and implementation by SERLA of a program of
systematic maintenance of the State's macro drainage network. ICMS revenues increased by 12% over
1987 in 1989 after having decreased by 8 % in 19884in Reais; The water company did increase its tariffs
to bring them to the National Tariff Law; however, as of mid-1996, no differential user charges for solid
waste services had been introduced by the municipalities of the Baxaida Fluminense. SERLA had prepared
a program of systematic maintenance, but the resources required to implement such a program had not yet
been made available. As of mid-1996, the financial situation of the State remained very poor. However,
the Alencar administration has started a major state reform program which, when implemented, should
considerably improve the financial situation and efficiency of the state government.
26. The Municipality of Rio de Janeiro - When the project started, the Municipality of Rio had formally
declared bankruptcy. Under the Rio Project Agreement, the Municipality of Rio was to carry out a time-
bound financial action program which included: (a) an evaluation of the Municipality's budgeting and
accounting systems, to be used as a basis for policy formulation to ensure cost recovery and budgeting for
maintenance of infrastructure; (b) improvements in property tax revenues (IPTU); (c) improvement in the
efficiency of collection of the service tax (ISS); and (d) implementation of tariff adjustments for solid-waste
collection and disposal (Table 10). The Alencar municipal administration (from January 1989 through
December 1992) started a major financial recovery. Tax revenues increased continuously from 1988 to
1991, but decreased in 1992 -- accumulated tax collection growth since 1988 was 151% in 1991 and 88%
in 1992. The cadaster updating and modernization program was the main reason for this improvement5
(para. 21), the second reason being the new federal constitution which increased revenues from tax transfer
to municipalities (para. 25). Two additional measures taken by the Alencar administration helped improve
the financial situation: (a) two successive 40% increases in real terms of the solid waste collection tariff in
1989 and 1990; and (b) a significant reduction in the ISS tax exemption. When the Maia administration
took over in January 1993, however, the financial situation of the Municipality of Rio was no longer so
satisfactory. The March 1993 amendment to the Loan Agreement included, as condition of disbursement
under the Municipality of Rio's components, the preparation of an evaluation of municipal finances and a
five-year projection, including a targeted action plan. Implementation of the updated action plan resulted
again in an improved financial situation of the Municipality - as of December 1995, it had R$990 million
in cash assets, equivalent to 54% of its 1995 fiscal income. Also, in mid-1996, the Municipality of Rio
was able to issue US$125 million in Eurobonds with a three-year maturity, which were well accepted by
4  By 1995, ICMS revenues had increased by about 28% over their 1987 level
S Local property tax (IPTU), which was equivalent to 30% of the service tax (ISS), increased its share to 90% of
the ISS in 1992.



9
the financial market.
27. Municipalities of the Baixada Fluminense - Two studies to review municipal financial management
were carried out respectively by the State (para. 17) and by the Brazilian Institute of Municipal
Administration (IBAM) for the Municipality of Rio (para. 22). As of mid-1996, however, the impact of
these studies on the Baxaida Fluminense remained negligible. Recommendations of the first study were not
implemented or discussed with the concerned municipalities, and the second study has not so far been
followed by systematic action programs to implement recommendations. The IBAM study showed that the
1988 Constitution did significantly increase the fiscal resources of the Baixada municipalities, but this did
not result in significant improvements in their administrative systems and financial and budget
management.
28. The Municipality of Petropolis - The March 1993 amendment to the Loan Agreement also included,
as a condition of disbursement under the Municipality of Petropolis components, the preparation of an
evaluation of its finances and presentation of a five-year projection including a targeted action plan. The
Municipality of Petropolis is currently revising and improving its cadaster using precise geoprocessing
techniques, and there is hope that in the medium term this municipality will be able to improve its finances.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
29. As already pointed out, the project's objectives were substantially achieved, but with major delays.
The Loan was approved on July 5, 1988 and it was signed at the end of September 1988, but only became
effective December 29, 1988, more than five months after Board approval, due to delays in meeting
conditions of effectiveness (Subsidiary Loan Agreements and agreement between the State and the
Municipality of Rio with respect to coordination mechanisms). During implementation, the closing date
was postponed four times; the final closing date (September 30, 1995) was four and a half years beyond the
original closing date. Implementation thus took seven years from loan signing, compared to two and a half
years estimated at appraisal, in line with time required by normal investment projects. Despite these delays
and very substantial amendments, the project formally remained an emergency project until completion.
30. It is necessary to evaluate problems during implementation within the political, institutional and
economic context at the time. The project was the first major operation financed in the State of Rio de
Janeiro by any multilateral agency since twenty years, thus there were no experience or institutional
mechanisms in place to manage such a project. It was also the first Bank loan to CEF, which although it
had absorbed the National Housing Bank (BNH) portfolio and part of its technical staff in 1986, did not
itself have experience in managing multilateral operations. Furthermore, implementation took place during
a period of political and macro-economic turmoil. The project implementation period overlapped with four
federal, three state, and three municipal administrations, with consequent disruptions from lack of
continuity and changes in priorities in allocation of funds. The uncertain macro-economic environment also
had a strong impact. High inflation periods, interrupted by four successive stabilization plans, affected the
availability of funds to FGTS, the main source of counterpart funds for the project, and to the state budget.
It also complicated the management of contracts. Finally, the new 1988 Constitution resulted in substantial
changes in the share of tax allocated to states and municipalities, which also impacted on their ability to
implement the project (para. 25).
31. Delays in project implementation were due to a combination of factors subject to federal and state
government control (counterpart funds, CEF and FGTS sub-loan approval procedures, state default on its
debt to CEF, inadequate inter-agency coordination mechanisms for resettlement activities and for studies),
implementing agency short-comings (deficient control over contract execution) and contractors'



10
performance (irregularities in implementation of drainage contracts). Bank disbursement procedures also
contributed to delays. The estimated sources and duration of delays are summnarized in Annex 2.
32. The most significant source of delays was the unavailability of counterpartfunds, which essentially
paralyzed the project during the first two years of implementation, and continued to slow it down
significantly during the subsequent two years. This occurred for the following reasons:
(a) normnal CEF sub-loan approval procedures were applied to project investments, which thus required
individual appraisal. CEF was very slow in reviewing and approving each sub-project, which was done
centrally in Brasilia. Furthermore, sub-projects had to fit into existing lines of credit, making the financing
of some investment categories (such as solid waste disposal) impossible from counterpart funds; finally,
the state itself became ineligible for CEF borrowing for practically one year in 1991 because it was in
default with its other obligations to CEF;
(b) CEF did not have control over FGTS, the source of counterpart funds, an unemployment insurance
fund administered by CEF but controlled by the Federal Government. Soon after effectiveness, shortly
after the presidential elections, the priorities for allocating these funds changed6, and only those few sub-
loans which had been approved under the project up to that time remained funded. For a variety of reasons
(which include a federal freeze on remittances to CEF as part of the Collor stabilization plan, and political
rivalry between the federal and state governments), sufficient priority to the project in the allocation of
FGTS funds was given only four and a half years later in July 1994, when, upon intervention of the
Governor of the State of Rio, the Federal Government freed all the required counterpart funds;
(c) consequently, by the end of 1991, only US$43.5 million out of the total of US$190.1 million of
counterpart funds due to be provided by CEF at that date had effectively been provided. To partially
remedy this situation, a year and a half after effectiveness (in August 1990) the Bank agreed to include the
project under its Special Assistance Program, thus raising the share of Bank financing retroactively to an
average of 60% over a two year period (1989-90) (up to 80% for critical components) instead of 40%. The
share of Bank financing subsequently dropped to an average of 30% to make up for these advances. This
substantially accelerated disbursements in 1991 (Table 4). Surplus funds derived from the substantial real
currency depreciation between commitment dates under contracts with suppliers and contractors and actual
payments, and interest accruing on funds deposited in the Special Account and CEF funds reserved for the
project also somewhat helped alleviate lack of counterpart fuinds; and
(d) as the Special Assistance Program ended, however, and it was still apparent that CEF would not meet
its counterpart fund commitments, another amendment to the Loan Agreement was negotiated (March
1993) in which the State of Rio de Janeiro reluctantly accepted to provide a large part of the missing funds.
But the state itself (which delayed signing the amendment by about three months) also had difficulty in
meeting its commitments in 1994. Project implementation and Bank disbursements, however, did not
really pick up again until mid-1994, when the FGTS Board granted priority to the provision of the full
original counterpart requirements of the project; the State provided more than twice the counterpart funds
agreed at appraisal; and the contractual issue in the drainage component now described in the paragraph
below had been resolved.
6  While previously the FGTS Board (Conselho Curador) had left BNH and subsequently CEF to decide on
allocation of funds without much interference, it decided to fully exercise its role in approving funds
allocation.



11
33. The second most significant source of delays was in contract execution and design of the state
drainage component. In February 1991, in light of projected very high cost overruns under the seven
contracts for drainage works and an apparent mnismatch between payments to contractors and work actually
performed, at the request of the Bank, a technical audit was commissioned of prices and quantities charged
by the contractors. Meanwhile, works stopped as payments were suspended pending the outcome of the
audit. The technical audit was completed in August 1991. It identified over-billing in the amount of
US$16.4 million (of which US$9.07 million related to amounts disbursed as of March 1991, including
US$6.48 million from the Special Account, and US$7.33 million to be invoiced but not disbursed).
Simultaneously, it had become clear that the entire design of the component had to be reviewed, in order to
set up priorities, minimize costs and optimize its results. An Overall Conceptual Design Study was carried
out by SERLA between March and June 1991, resulting in the reformulation of priorities for drainage
works within the available budget, and in design changes aimed at eliminating over-design and minimizing
relocation costs. Provisions for the deduction of overbilled quantities were agreed upon with contractors in
early 1992, and works resumed in March 1992. The Bank approved the recommendations of the Overall
Conceptual Design Study in August 1992. Amended contracts were signed with contractors in September
1992, incorporating refunding provisions and design changes. In the end, contractors refunded the
equivalent of US$5.84 million, including US$4.17 million from the Special Account7. This issue, however,
had resulted in an additional two-year delay of the largest project component.
34. Related to the above discussion, a third significant source of delays stemmed from Bank management
of the SpecialAccount. In December 1993, CEF submitted SOEs to the Bank for expenditures in
substitution for the ineligible expenditures against which disbursements had been made earlier out of the
Special Account under the drainage component. At that time, the Bank became concerned at the
differences between the requested amount and what the technical audit had shown (see above paragraph),
and determined that it was imperative to recover the ineligible expenditures in advance of loan closing. The
Bank then decided to start recovery of the Special Account, and also requested a financial audit of the
eligible expenditures submitted in the SOEs. It was not until September 1994 that the Bank finally
accepted the evidence furnished by CEF both with respect to the amounts of ineligible expenditures and the
audit of substitute expenditures. In the meantime, the Special Account reached a zero balance by June
1994. It was replenished to US$5 million only in September 1994, and subsequently increased to US$ 10
million in February 1995 to allow CEF to face the heavy payment requests from contractors needed to
complete drainage works. This matter resulted in a serious loss of momentum in drainage works, as
contractors significantly slowed down implementation or demobilized when the Special Account became
depleted.
35. Although the project in the end successfully resettled a very significant number of families, and did so
in accordance with Bank guidelines, the Resettlement component suffered a variety of delays and itself
caused further delays in the drainage component, particularly in 1994 and 1995. Resettlement activities by
the municipalities of Rio and Petropolis initially suffered from the five-month delay from Board approval
to effectiveness and from difficulties in securing land for the settlements (some of which were resolved only
by mid- 1990). As a result, resettlement of families made homeless by the floods through the distribution of
urbanized lots, as originally intended, did not take place. Instead, the municipalities provided basic
infrastructure to areas invaded by the homeless (and others), where they had already rebuilt houses in
7  These figures differ from the amounts quoted above for disbursed ineligible expenditures of US$9.07 million
and US$6.48 million. These lower figures were accepted by the Bank in November 1994, after CEF
demonstrated that their US$ equivalent value had dropped between March 1991 (the base date for the
technical audit) and September 1992 (the date at which amended contacts were signed), due to differences in
monetary correction and changes in exchange rates.



12
precarious condition. With respect to relocation of families in high-risk areas (associated with municipal
drainage works and landslide prevention activities), delays occurred due to the need to secure financing for
construction of the houses, which was not originally included under the project. In the end, houses were
financed by the municipalities, using their own resources. Municipal resettlement proceeded smoothly after
this issue was resolved.
36. Resettlement activities by the State of Rio de Janeiro, all of which were carried out in connection with
the drainage component, suffered much more substantial delays, in turn causing delays throughout
implementation of the drainage component. As with municipalities, resettlement was constrained by the
need to secure financing for house construction (all displaced families were eventually provided with
houses). Initially, resettlement activities were also affected by insufficient participation of beneficiaries
(houses too small, resettlement sites too far, resulting in partial abandonment of the new sites) and
invasions of sites under construction by beneficiaries and others. But these problems were addressed, and
did not subsequently recur, when community associations became involved in the process (para. 58). More
serious and pervasive throughout implementation, was the poor coordination between the various agencies
involved in resettlement and SERLA, to adequately integrate resettlement activities within the scheduling of
drainage works. These coordination problems, together with difficulties in securing land and problems with
contractors (Campo do America site), resulted in serious delays in the completion of drainage works in
1994 and 1995 (in particular along the Rio Pavuna).
37. As already explained in Section B, a number of important studies andprograms (Civil Defense Plan,
Environmental Education, Strengthening the Financial Administration of Municipalities, and certain
aspects of the Solid Waste Master Plan) were not carried out, or, if (partially) carried out, their
recommendations were not implemented. This can be attributed to a variety of factors and events: (a) lack
of more careful and thorough preparation with clearly defined objectives and implementation strategy after
studies are completed; (b) weak executing agencies (FEEMA, FIEF, Secretariat of Civil Defense, SEDUR)
and lack of commitment to the studies; (c) lack of a well focused and consistent effort on the part of
GEROE to monitor their preparation, promote the implementation of their recommendations, enlist the
support of municipalities, and ensure the necessary inter-agency coordination; (d) sporadic attention paid
by both the Bank and CEF, whose attention was clearly focused on resolving issues arising from the
implementation of the investment components; and (e) tight deadlines for contracting and implementation
given at the time of successive closing date extensions. In December 1994, to accelerate Loan closing,
priority was given to the completion of the drainage, slope containment and resettlement components, and
the studies (or necessary supplements to them) which had not yet been contracted were abandoned.
38. The Solid Waste component was the most severely affected by the desire to close the Loan. First,
only three out of the six composting plants recommended in the Solid Waste Master Plan were included
under the project because agreements could not be reached between the State and the other three
municipalities. Second, as already pointed out, in December 1994, priority in the allocation of Bank funds
was assigned to the completion of other unfinished components, and, since contracts for the composting
plants works had not yet been entered into, Bank financing for these works was canceled, even though all
equipment had already been contracted. The responsibility for completing the plants was to be assumed by
the state out of its own funds. To this date (November 1996), timing of completion of this component is
uncertain and its efficient operation is far from assured.
39. Among other factors which caused less significant delays in project execution, one should cite the
following two: (a) early in the project, the Tribunal de Contas (the state General Auditor) disagreed with
Bank procurement procedures as being inconsistent with domestic procurement regulations (this resulted in
the cancellation by the Tribunal de Contas of the invitation to bid for the drainage works, causing a three-



13
month delay). These disputes were eventually resolved but required considerable discussions; and (b)
delays by the Municipality of Rio in submitting audit reports for FY92 resulted in suspension of new
commitments from CEF under municipal components in early March 1994 and suspension of Bank
disbursements to the municipality for about a month (ending August 1, 1994).
D. Project Sustainability
40. Project sustainability critically depends on the development and implementation of integrated actions
in the areas of drainage and slope containment work maintenance, solid waste collection and disposal,
reforestation, civil defense, environmental education, and institutional strengthening of municipalities and
executing agencies. As already indicated, many of these programs were only partially implemented or not
implemented at all, and without integration among them. Consequently, sustainability of the project is
uncertain and will remain so unless follow-up programs are carried out.
41. A comprehensive Civil Defense plan for the state was not developed, illustrating problems of
institutional overlaps and conflicts of competence between the state and municipal levels. Even for the fire
fighting and rescue equipment financed under the project, spare parts were not financed and the state was
not able to present an acceptable maintenance program. The lack of a well-planned strategy to deal with
disasters was apparent during the 1996 floods and landslides which affected the western part of the state
42. The project slope stabilization components within the boundaries of Rio and Petropolis, however, are
the most likely to be sustainable. In Rio, GEORIO has continued to invest heavily in slope stabilization
after project completion (a total of 349 works , amounting to a total of US$83 million in 1995 and 1996,
including US$53 million in 1996). GEORIO has steadily moved from corrective to preventive works and
measures, and is also establishing an early warning system in collaboration with the municipal civil defense
services (para. 24(b)). GEORIO currently spends about 10% of its total budget on maintenance, and does
not report financing difficulties. GEORIO also participates in the "Favela Bairro" program, an integrated
favela upgrading program of the Municipality of Rio, and is well aware of the need to secure community
support for long-term sustainability. Sustainability is also enhanced by the PROSANEAR project which
provides basic sanitation infrastructure in many favelas in Rio, thus reducing erosion from open sewerage
on steep slopes.
43. In August 1995, at the Bank's request, SERLA and the Municipality of Rio prepared plans for
maintenance of drainage works under their responsibility. These programs summarized institutional
arrangements and estimated costs for maintenance. With respect to state investments implemented by
SERLA, the plan, which, among others, included environmental education, removal of solid waste, and
construction of roads along rivers to prevent re-invasion, was estimated to require about US$3.5 million a
year, to be contracted out under the supervision of SERLA. As of July 1996, however, SERLA had not
received this budget. Considering the poor financial condition of the State, contributions from the users,
communities and municipalities is an alternative that should be explored to finance maintenance and
generate the right incentives to keep the area safe from floods. The Municipality of Rio de Janeiro
estimated total annual costs of maintenance at about US$423,500. Responsibility for maintenance is with
the municipal Department of Urban Roads, but works are contracted out.
44. Sustainability of drainage investments critically depends on the establishment by the Baixada
municipalities of adequate solid waste collection and disposal systems. The project has financed three
waste disposal and treatment facilities, and the Guanabara Bay project is supposed to finance another four,
thus completing the network of necessary processing and landfill facilities. However, sustainability of
these investments will not be ensured until: (a) the projects are completed (as already mentioned,



14
completion is hampered for lack of state funds); (b) institutional responsibilities for operation and
maintenance are defined (contracting to third parties the responsibility for collection, processing and final
disposal is recommended, possibly under the supervision of local councils made up of representatives of
users, NGOs and municipal officials); (c) cost recovery mechanisms are defined and in place; and (d) a
strong program of environmental education is implemented.
45. Slope stabilization and control of siltation into rivers through reforestation of slopes was identified as
an important element in the flood and landslide control strategy. Yet, due to the institutional weakness of
the state implementing agency, project implementation (in terms of reforested acreage) and maintenance of
planted areas fell far short of expectations (para. 12). Poor maintenance is attributed to budgetary
shortages of FIEF, difficult working conditions (safety) and lack of community support.
46. Sustainability of drainage works and slope stabilization also depends on successful resettlement and
strong environmental education programs which were not implemented. Prevention of re-invasion of river
banks and high-risk areas is very important to project sustainability, and both SERLA and GEORIO have
taken approaches which should prevent such re-invasions (urbanization of vacated areas with roads along
river banks, or community equipment and leisure areas). Satisfaction of resettled people is also essential so
that they will not abandon the new sites to return to vacated or other high-risk areas. This in turn requires
an intense environmental education program, and is strongly linked to the degree of involvement and
support by the beneficiaries and their representative associations in design as well as implementation and
preservation of community equipment and infrastructure, acceptance of cost recovery, and participation in
programs of solid waste collection. Participation of beneficiaries and their representative associations was
strong in resettlement activities performed by the state, particularly from 1993 onwards. It was less so in
the municipality, where concerns have also been raised with inadequate maintenance of community
equipment. Nevertheless, as stated in para. 24 (c), the degree of satisfaction of beneficiaries is generally
high, and the municipality has now revised its resettlement policies (which will be applied under the "Favela
Bairro" project) on the basis of that experience.
47. Finally, sustainability is affected by the institutional weakness of the Baixada municipalities, which
remained marginalized from the project. First, they did not participate in the design or the implementation
of the project, and therefore did not have much interest in developing cost recovery mechanisms or
strategies for operation and maintenance of waste facilities and meso and micro drainage investments.
Second, sustainability in the long run depends on well run municipalities capable of financially taking
charge of maintenance of the infrastructure installed in the municipality and/or participating in integrated
water basin management. Although two studies were financed under the project to diagnose their
institutional and financial problems and propose remedial programs to strengthen them financially and
administratively (one by the state and one by the municipality of Rio), no programs were subsequently
implemented to address their specific needs, train their staff and help them contract out relatively expensive
updates or establishment of property cadasters.
48. For the two most important river basins of the Baixada Fluminense (Iguacu and Sarapui rivers), all
remaining drainage-related deficiencies have been clearly identified in the Master Plan for the Rios
Iguaqu/Sarapui River Basin. This Master Plan (covering a large part of the Baixada Fluminense and
upstream areas) was included for financing under the project (para. 19). This plan was widely regarded as
highly successful in presenting an integrated program of actions aimed at complete flood control in the
entire basin. The study identified a series of further drainage investments (fully detailed, this time, and
subject to appropriate cost/benefit analysis), and complementary actions in the areas of resettlement,
environmental education, solid waste collection, reforestation, control of siltation through paving of steep
streets, recovery of degraded areas, and other techniques of natural resource management; rainfall



15
monitoring, maintenance of investments, and the development of zoning regulations The novelty in this
plan is twofold: (i) it has adopted a water basin management approach, integrating all actions and agents
around the need to secure the sustainability of the various flood control measures; and (ii) the design,
options and locations of the proposed investments and of the associated resettlement needs has been fully
discussed with local communities and representative associations of affected populations, which consider
themselves as "co-authors" of the plan. Total costs of implementation of the plan is estimated at about
US$368 million, including about US$198 million in works (not including resettlement) and US$169 million
in complementary actions. The Iguacu basin water management model should be extended to the rest of
the Baixada, including the Pavuna river and the canal da Cunha, located outside the Iguacu/Sarapui basin,
but equally affected by floods.
49. It is likely that some projects, which followed and partly emerged out of the experience and approaches
developed under this project, will contribute in part towards its long-term sustainability: these are: (a) the
state and IDB-financed Guanabara Bay Pollution Control Project, which will reduce the health impacts of
floods by providing basic sanitation investments throughout the area, complete the network of solid waste
treatment and disposal facilities in the Baixada, and hopefully develop approaches towards cost recovery
and management which will also be applied to the project-financed facilities; (b) the state and IDB-financed
"Baixada Viva" Project, which aims at providing a number of low-income communities in the Baixada with
an integrated package of urban infrastructure and social equipment and services, developed in conjunction
with these communities (including, where relevant, the actions and investments identified under the
Iguacu/Sarapui River Basin Master Plan); (c) the "Favela Bairro" project of the Municipality of Rio (also
supported by IDB), with approaches similar to that of the Baixada Viva project, aiming at integrating the
Rio slum areas ("favelas") into the city (investments include slope stabilization, paving, fencing off
protected areas, reforestation, solid waste collection and environmental education); and (d) the
PROSANEAR project, which provides basic sanitation infrastructure in many favelas of Rio de Janeiro
(para. 42). In these projects, sustainability is to be clearly based on (i) integration of actions; and (ii)
community and beneficiary involvement throughout project design and implementation. Finally, the state
and the municipality of Rio are also preparing flood and landslide control projects in the areas affected by
the 1996 rains (Jacarepagua and Itaguai, in particular).
50. While these projects will undoubtedly contribute to the sustainability of the project, flood and landslide
prevention is not their main objective, and it may be that priorities which were identified under the Igua;u
river master plan or other priorities in the other basins may not ultimately be addressed in time or to the
extent required to bring a permanent solution to the flood problem in the Baixada. Currently, it is
established that drainage investments amounting to about US$80 million are included under the Baixada
Viva project (compared to total requirements of US$200 million identified for the Iguacu and Sarapui
Basins alone).



16
E. Bank Performance
51. Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was varied. It was highly
satisfactory in terms of responsiveness to client needs, since the operation was prepared in record time
(two and a half months between IEPS and Board approval). Conditions essential to the sustainability of the
project were also well identified, resulting in the inclusion of a number of important studies, plans and
programs under the project (civil defense, slope stabilization and reforestation, environmental education,
solid waste collection and disposal, infrastructure maintenance and institutional strengthening programs).
However, preparation and appraisal were deficient in four important respects: (i) the timetable for project
implementation was unrealistic, particularly for the proper design and execution of the large drainage
works and components requiring prior institutional improvements and policy changes-- in retrospect, two
separate projects for prevention and reconstruction would have been better; if this was not possible (see
footnote 1 on page 1), the project should at least have been split into two phases, an emergency
reconstruction phase, and a second phase incorporating the prevention actions under a normal investment
operation; (ii) no financial and institutional analysis was made of CEF8, which would have led, first, to an
awareness that funds would be provided not out of CEF's own resources but out of FGTS, whose credit
allocation mechanisms could be different from those of CEF; and, second, to a realization that CEF
individual subproject approval procedures were incompatible with the emergency nature of this project; (iii)
studies and programs needed to ensure sustainability were not adequately defined; and (iv) the Bank
wrongly insisted that construction of houses should not be included under the project resettlement
component.
52. Bank performance with respect to supervision, however, was on the whole highly satisfactory. Without
its intensity, level of staff commitment, and continuity, its dedication and flexibility in seeking solutions to
keep the project viable and adapting to unforeseen circumstances and multiple obstacles, the project would
not have eventually achieved most of its stated objectives. Supervision was excellent in terms of: (i)
quality, in timely identification of issues and assessment of project progress, advice to implementing
agencies, contribution to resolution of issues, promoting flexibility within the Bank to help resolve issues
(Special Assistance Program, successive adjustments to project scope and timing and to coordination
responsibilities), follow-up on recommendations and decisions, and enforcement of covenants (Table 10);
(ii) intensity of missions, including time spent in the field, and quality, mix and continuity of staff and
consultants, as evidenced in Tables 12 and 13; and (iii) relationships with the borrower (except during the
first year or so) and executing agencies (except, briefly, with SERLA, when the need for technical audits of
drainage contracts arose)-- only with GEROE were these relationships somewhat strained at times.
53. There are four areas, however, in which Bank performance during implementation was less
satisfactory: First, until late 1994, supervision missions did not make an accurate evaluation of the time
required for completion of contracts. Loan closing extensions were not made based on a detailed
assessment of time needed to complete the physical execution of the project. Second, as the missions'
attention was absorbed in the enormous problems of counterpart funding, drainage contract irregularities
and design of the drainage components, and resettlement, not enough systematic and consistent attention
8  The Bank had just completed an appraisal of CEF as Borrower and Executing Agency in connection with
another project (Low Income Water Project- PROSANEAR) that was to be presented to the Board at about the
same time as the project, therefore it had been decided that a separate evaluation would not be necessary.



17
was paid to the various studies and programs which were to ensure project sustainability, either to help in
the drafting of satisfactory terms of reference, or to pressure for their implementation. Third, these
"sustainability components" suffered from the successive closing date extensions, which repeatedly
imposed unrealistic, yet constantly postponed deadlines and eventually excluded them when priority was
awarded to the completion of the drainage, resettlement and slope stabilization components in December
1994-- it would have been better to grant the prevention and sustainability components a timing more in
line with regular investment projects when, in 1991, the closing date was extended, or in March 1993, when
the project was completely reviewed, instead of repeatedly extending the closing date for short periods of
time. Despite very substantial amendments, the project remained an emergency project until completion,
while it would have been better to formally transform it into a regular investment project. Fourth, although
the Bank was justified in its desire to start the recovery of the Special Account early to press for the
resolution of unexplained differences in ineligible expenditures, it took far too long to resolve this issue,
since over a year elapsed between the time recovery of the Special Account started pending receipt of
satisfactory explanations (and SOE audit results for eligible expenditures) and replenishment of the Special
Account to levels consistent with the large payment requirements of the drainage contracts at that time.
F - Borrower Performance
54. Because of the complexity of the project institutional arrangements, it is necessary to divide this section
into (a) performance of CEF, the borrower; (b) performance of the State and its executing agencies; (c)
performance of the participating municipalities; and (d) role of community associations.
55. Performance of CEF. Except towards the end of the project, the performance of CEF was
unsatisfactory with respect to the provision of counterpart funding. Centralization of sub-loan approval
was also a source of excessive delays and was incompatible with the emergency nature of the project. It
was not until 1992 that CEF decentralized technical review of subprojects to GERSA, its Rio-based group
in charge of the project, and until 1993 that it also decentralized sub-loan approval to GERSA. The
performance of GERSA, however, in project supervision, coordination and control was highly satisfactory,
after some initial difficulties during the first two years of implementation. In fact, GERSA was called upon
to perform many of the supervision, coordination and control tasks which were initially attributed to
GEROE. This happened following the identification of irregularities in the drainage contracts, and the
vacuum created in GEROE by the change in administration and the reduced participation of the technical
assistance from consulting firms. GERSA's role was also subsequently reinforced by the continuity and
professionalism of its staff, while continuity in state administration was deeply affected by the three
administration changes which occurred over the life of the project, and by poor relationships between
GEROE and the state executing agencies over most of the life of the project (para. 56). In the end, the
project contributed to the establishment within CEF of a highly professional group, which is now being
called upon to assist with the implementation of other CEF-financed development projects in the state of
Rio.
56. Performance of GEROE and the State Executing Agencies. The conception of the role of GEROE
varied during project implementation with each incoming state administration:
(a) Until the end of 1990 (Moreira Franco administration), GEROE was a special secretariat reporting
directly to the Governor, with sweeping powers, but a small structure, supported, for project management
and supervision, by a consulting firm specialized in these matters. While adequate to deal speedily with
emergency recovery, this structure proved less so in the supervision of more conventional investments and
studies, and did not detect the irregularities in drainage contracts;



18
(b) From 1991 through the end of 1994, under the Brizola administration, GEROE was downgraded to the
level of a division (Gerencia), under the Secretariat of Planning . The structure of GEROE, however, grew
enormously, and it established increasingly centralized bureaucratic procedures for project approvals,
controls of contract execution, and payments. Although GEROE contracted a project management
consulting firm to help in these tasks, it used its staff mostly for individual administrative and technical
support. During that time, by wanting to become excessively involved in project execution and substituting
executing agencies in their role, GEROE became excessively dispersed, antagonized the executing agencies,
CEF and the Bank, and, in the end, achieved little. It ended up being by-passed by executing agencies,
which dealt directly with CEF. GEROE did register important successes, however, in areas which either
required inter-agency coordination and the organization of beneficiaries and local community associations
(resettlement), or high level political intervention (securing funding from FGTS in 1994 for CEF to meet
counterpart funds obligations).
(c) At the beginning of 1995, with the new Alencar administration, GEROE was considerably reduced in
size (to 24) and began to report directly to the Vice Govemor. During this year until loan closing, although
no new works and studies were to be contracted, GEROE became more agile, as matters requiring high
level decisions were brought up regularly to the projecfts Council of concemed secretaries and presidents of
executing agencies. Coordination became more "collegial" and less centralized, and consequently more
effective. GEROE was abolished after completion of the project at the end of 1995.
57. With respect to the state executing agencies, it is clear that their weakness has considerably affected
project implementation. Since this weakness was due to fundamental issues of institutional definition, staff
qualification and salary levels, and lack of resources, the project did not have institutional strengthening
effects, not even to guarantee its sustainability. Project management within SERLA improved dramatically
in early 1991 when the new Brizola administration brought a team of excellent professionals from the
Federal University of Rio (UFRJ), who took over management of the project within SERLA. The Alencar
administration maintained this team, guaranteeing continuity and ensuring the successful completion of the
Rio Iguasu Master Plan. But the experience gained in the project was not intemalized within SERLA,
whose professional staff remained marginalized from the project putting the sustainability of the project at
risk. The project did, however, considerably strengthen the COPPE/UFRJ team in the area of water basin
management (para . 19). A fundamental restructuring of the state role and its institutions is now in process
in the state of Rio de Janeiro.
58. Performance of Municipalities. Except during 1993 (the transition period between the Alencar and
Maia administrations), and with the notable exception of the environmental education program, the
Municipality of Rio de Janeiro consistently performed very well both with respect to project execution and
financial performance. Sustainability of project actions appears better ensured by its well-funded and
competent institutions, and results from the series of studies which were incorporated in 1993 are being
used to improve urban planning. The project led to the creation of an Advisory Office for External
Resources, within the municipal secretariat of finance, to coordinate the project. The experience gained
under the project is now being applied to other extemally-funded projects (such as the IDB-supported
Favela Bairro project). The municipality of Petropolis also performed well, after initial difficulties. It
adopted a project coordination approach similar to that of the municipality of Rio, and the group created
within the secretariat of planning (PROGREP) is also now coordinating other extemally-funded programs.
The municipalities of the Baixada Fluminense, unfortunately, did not participate much in the project and
did not carry out the financial and institutional strengthening actions which would help ensure project
sustainability.



19
59. Role of Conmmunity Associations. The extensive participation of community associations in the
definition, planning and execution of the state drainage component and associated resettlement activities
deserves special mention. Since 1984, municipal community associations of the Baixada Fluminense had
been organized into a "Comite de Saneamento da Baixada", which strongly participated in relief activities
during the 1988 floods. In 1989, this popular movement, jointly with the Federation of Community
Associations of Rio de Janeiro (FAMERJ) organized demonstrations in Brasilia to obtain counterpart
funding for the project. But it was not until 1992 that the Comite de Saneamento, FAMERJ and the
Federation of Favela Associations of Rio de Janeiro (FAFERJ) assisted by the Federation of Social
Assistance and Educational Organizations (FASE), a local NGO, started a fruitful dialogue with SERLA
and GEROE which led to their full participation in the drainage component and associated resettlement
activities through monthly meetings with executing agencies and organized consultations with groups of
beneficiaries. Their input resulted in: (a) inclusion of meso-drainage of critical affluents and canals; (b)
increase in the size of house constructed area from 22 m2 to 44 in2; (c) resettlement in areas closer to the
original locations; and (d) limitation of cost recovery from beneficiaries to 15% during four years.
G. Assessment of Outcome
60. On balance, the project outcome may be rated as satisfactory: the project achieved its major objectives,
although with considerable delay (but these delays were partly due to originally unrealistic timetables). Its
benefits, in terms of avoided floods and landslides and associated fatalities and losses, may be presumed
high. The project was strongly poverty-oriented and has benefited several hundred thousand low income
families. Resettled families are satisfied. Although sustainability is uncertain, awareness of the need for
complementary actions is high, and some of these have been incorporated, at least partially, into other
programs which are building upon the participatory approaches developed under the project. Finally, the
vocal participation of associations of residents in the Baixada Fluminense in this as well as the forthcoming
Baixada Viva project, and their awareness of missing actions, may become the best guarantee that these
questions will not be forgotten.
H. Future Operation
61. Performance indicators to monitor and evaluate project results and their sustainability were not
developed. Suggested indicators are presented in Table 6. They may be grouped into four broad
categories: (a) indicators of losses of life, health, property and productive time attributed to floods and
landslides; (b) costs of repairs for the state and municipalities; (c) budgets and expenditures in maintenance
of drainage works; and (d) value of land and properties, and rents, in flooded areas and areas subject to
landslides before and after prevention works. The Bank should encourage the state and the municipalities
to develop such a system. The Bank should also press the state to make available to SERLA adequate
budgetary allocations for maintenance of drainage systems, at least while other complementary approaches
are being developed (in particular some cost recovery mechanisms from beneficiaries and municipalities),
and to SOSP for the completion of the solid waste component, as agreed before the loan was closed the
State and the Municipalities should also be requested to develop a program of regular monitoring of
vacated areas and take necessary measures to avoid re-invasion.
62. As pointed out, the project reduced the flood-prone area in the Baixada Fluminense by about 40%, a
significant achievement. However, there remains another 60% of flood-prone areas which could still
sustain substantial damage. Furthermore, there is an urgent need to address issues of sustainability through
a set of integrated actions, as proposed by the Iguaqu River Master Plan. Some of these actions are
included under the Baixada Viva project (para. 49). A follow-up operation in this sense would help
guarantee the sustainability and continuation of the project. Other follow up operations are also



20
conceivable to control floods and landslides in other parts of the state (including the Jacarepagua and
Sepetiba basins). In light of the poor condition of state finances and limited indebtedness capacity,
however, such an operation might not be possible in the short term.
I. Key Lessons Learned
Emergency Projects
63. Large-scale preventive investments, which require time to mature in their selection and design, and
detailed design before contracts are entered into, should not be part of an emergency recovery project and
therefore should be part of a follow-up regular investment project. However, because it is true that long
term prevention measures in high-risk areas have better chances of being addressed during a disaster, when
there exists momentum for prevention as well as reconstruction, a good alternative might be to group under
the same project: (a) an emergency recovery phase (two-to-three years) to restore basic services, remove
obvious obstructions and bottle necks, prepare master plans (such as drainage management, solid waste,
and civil defense action plans), generate the coordination mechanisms among the different actors, and
prepare a prevention project including associated resettlement plans; and (b) a later, additional, prevention
phase (of five years or more) to implement major preventive infrastructure works (such as major hydraulic
works and associated resettlement) and implement the master plans (including, for the civil defense plan,
the installation of possibly needed sophisticated forecasting equipment). The second phase would be
prepared during the emergency phase along the lines of traditional investment projects.
Complex project Coordination and Management
64. Whenever possible, project design should be simplified. However, when complex projects such as this
one are unavoidable, with many different components carried out by different executing agencies, it seems,
from the successive experiences with the various configurations of GEROE, that a possible institutional
set-up for coordination and management could be as follows: (a) a special decision-making Commission,
chaired at the highest level and made of top level government officials (involved secretaries and directors of
decentralized executing agencies), meeting regularly, with powers to decide and expedite matters related to
the project; (b) a project Coordination Unit, with a small, highly professional team, to coordinate and
monitor project implementation; regularly inform the Decision-making Commission and financiers of
progress and problems to be resolved; assist, train and advise the project teams within the executing
agencies; and coordinate resettlement activities; and (c) strong decentralized project teams within each
executing agency, responsible and accountable for project implementation, with technical assistance as
necessary. Special attention should be given to the proper establishment of these units during appraisal. In
any event no special institution (such as a special secretariat) should be created to manage and implement
the project. Future projects should not shy away from dealing with the basic institutional constraints, but
address them from the beginning as an important component.



21
Resettlement
1. For the resettlement of homeless due to floods or other catastrophic events and/or resettlement of
families associated with the implementation of works in high-risk areas, the provision of serviced lots
without housing is inadequate. The project should provide for financing and construction of housing.
2. To avoid possible delays in the implementation of infrastructure works, the Bank should consider
awarding construction of the new houses together with the associated infrastructure works. The
construction company would have a strong incentive to complete the housing on schedule in order to begin
the infrastructure work.
3. To avoid later possible delays, when possible the Bank should require that the land necessary for
resettlement be available before Board presentation.
4. The project design should include clear actions to avoid re-occupation of high-risk areas.
Implementation of these actions should be financed under the project.
5. The 44 m2 houses provided under the project at a high cost of about US$8000 offers several
advantages. However, simpler design, with standard materials and more land for future expansions can
lower the cost and speed up construction. The housing program should also include social infrastructure,
be near public transportation and work places, and provide room for small businesses.
Role of Community Associations and Beneficiaries
6. The Bank should strongly insist on the early participation of beneficiaries and their community
associations in project design, planning and implementation, in particular of resettlement actions -- the
drainage component of the project really advanced when community associations participated and
supported the project.
Sustainability
7. All measures and programs necessary to ensure sustainability are as, or more, important as physical
investments. As was done under the project, the Bank should stress their importance from the beginning
and include funding to support and implement them. However, in addition: (a) satisfactory and timely
implementation of these measures should be incorporated in dated covenants, and integrated with the
programs of investments; (b) the project should provide 100% financing for these measures out of the loan,
so that they are not affected by problems of counterpart funding (as occurred for the solid waste treatment
plants, for example), and they should be the last components to be eliminated for reasons such as timely
completion of the project, or reallocation of funds to allow completion of other components; (c) institutional
responsibilities and cost recovery mechanisms (when relevant) should be stressed; municipalities which will
later be in charge of operation and maintenance should participate in project preparation and design; and, to
the extent possible, these municipalities should share in project financing, even if for a small portion; and
(d) contributions from users, comnnunities and municipalities, is an alternative that should be explored to
finance maintenance of infrastructure and generate the right incentives to keep the area safe from floods.
With respect to solid waste, a master plan to manage and finance solid waste facilities should be required at
a very early stage of the project, including recommended options for possible private sector participation, to
be implemented before the end of the project. If the project is carried out in two phases as suggested above,
progress in the implementation of such programs should be a condition of moving ahead with the second



22
(preventive) phase.
Counterpart Funding
8. Appraisal of emergency projects should not dispense with financial and institutional appraisal of the
financial intermediary and co-financier. In the specific case of CEF, for future projects with co-financing
from FGTS, global co-financing agreements between CEF/FGTS and beneficiaries, for the entire amounts
required for the life of the project, should be conditions of Board presentation or effectiveness (and not just
up to this amount, and conditional on individual appraisal of each sub-project, as was the case under the
project).
Engineering Design and Contract Execution
9. Procurement of large works should not take place before detailed design has been completed or is well
advanced. Furthermore, detailed design should not be contracted, as is often the case in Brazil, from the
construction company, but from a separate specialized firm, to avoid conflicts of interest. Finally, it is as
important to supervise contract implementation as well as the procurement process, and executing agencies
as well as the Bank should have specialists in this area involved in project supervision.
Bank Procedures
10. Frequent extensions of loan closing are disruptive. At mid-term, an adequate evaluation should be
done and the loan extended for the period required to bring the project to satisfactory completion.
Type Your Name Here
M:\MEKAN\RIO\RFLICRIB.DOC
December 19,1996 5:42 PM



23                           Table I - Page I of 2
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives    Substantial      Partial       Neglipible    Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                    x
Sector Policies                                                                   x
Financial Objectives'                              x
Institutional Development                          x
Physical Objectives                 x
Poverty Reduction                   x
Gender Issues                                                                     x
Other Social Objectives2            x
Environmental Objectives3                           x
Public Sector Management                                           x
Private Sector Development                                                        x
Likelv        Unlikely      Uncertain
B. Proiect Sustainability                                          x
Highlv
C. Bank Performance             satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                      x
Preparation Assistance              x
Appraisal                                                         X4
Supervision                         x5
Hiihly
D. Borrower Performance (CEF)    Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                                       x6
Implementation:
Provision of counterpart funds                                  x
Project Coordination              x
Covenant Compliance
Provision of counterpart funds                                  x'
'Rio Municipality and Rio State Financial Action Plans
2 Resettlement of population in risk areas
3 Control of floods through dredging of blocked waterways, and of siltation and erosion through
reforestation and contention works
4 for failure to identify CEF's limitation with respect to use of FGTS funds, and for inclusion of large
portion of non emergency investments, without adequate design
'Although supervision of studies and TA programs was sporadic, and management of the Special Account
was deficient at times, this high rating overall is deserved because, in the midst of multiple adverse
financial, economic, political and managerial conditions in Brazil, the project would never have reached its
objectives had not it been for the energy, commitment and flexibility of the suprvision teams.
6 CEF became involved in the project late and did not inform the Bank of limitations regarding the use of
FGTS funds



24                           Table I - Page 2 of 2
Other covenants                    x
Highl
E. Beneficiary Performance:      Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
(a) State of Rio de Janeiro
Preparation                          x
Implementation:
Project Coordination                                              x
Counterpart Funds                                 x
Covenant Compliance                                  xs
Operation9                                                          x
(b) Municipality of R. de J.
Preparation                          x
Implementation                       x
Covenant Compliance                  x
Operation                                           x'
(c) Municipality of Petropolis
Preparation                                         x
Implementation                                      x
Covenant Compliance                                 x
Operation                                           x
Highl                                         Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
F. Assessment of Outcome                             x
7although in the end all counterpart funds were provided, delays in their provision significantly affected
project implementation
s except for implementation of the financial action plan
9maintenance of drainage works, removal of solid waste and maintenance of reforested areas
' maintenance of slope contention works satisfactory, but maintenance of resettled areas less satisfactory



25                          Table 2 - Page 1 of 1
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975 BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 2 - Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan                  Purpose              Year of           Status           Loan in
Credit                                    Approval                           Million of
US$
Preceding Operations
Ln 0757     Sao Paulo Water Supply           1971     Closed: June 30, 1977     22.0
Ln 1009     CEF - MG Water Supply and        1974    Closed: Aug 15, 1980       36.0
Sewerage *
Ln 1309     CEF - Second Water Supply        1976    Closed: Sept 30, 1982      40.0
and Sewerage *
Ln 1525     CEF - Sewage Collection &        1978    Closed: Sept 30, 1984      110.0
Treatment *
Ln 1654     CEF - Sites & Services & Low     1979    Closed: Dec 31, 1984       93.0
Cost Housing *
Ln 1656     CEF -Northeast Water Supply      1979    Closed: Dec 31, 1985       100.0
& Sewerage *
Ln 1823     CEF- South States Water          1980    Closed: Dec 31, 1985       130.0
Supply & Sewerage *
Ln 1850     CEF - 3rd MG Water Supply        1980    Closed: Dec 31, 1986       139.0
& Sewerage *
Ln 1970     CEF - Water Supply &             1981     Closed: Dec 31, 1987      180.0
Sewerage *
Ln 2193     Metropolitan Development         1982    Closed: June 30, 1985        8.9
Program
Ln 2249     CEF - Water Supply and           1983     Closed: Sept 30, 1989    302.3
Sewerage Sector *
Ln 2343     Towns Improvement                1983     Closed: Dec 31, 1988      52.7
Ln 2532     Technical Assistance and         1985    Closed: Sept 30, 1990      16.3
Water Supply
Ln 2645     Northeast Urban Flood            1985    Closed: Dec 31 1988        100.0
Reconstruction
Ln 2681     Salvador Metropolitan            1986    Closing Date: Dec 31,      55.0
Development                              1996
Following Operations
Ln 2983     CEF - Municipal & low            1988    Closing Date: June         80.0
Income Areas                             30, 1996
Ln 3129     Rio Grande do Sul - Municipal    1989    Closed: Dec 31, 1995       100.0
Development
Ln 3789     Ceara - Urban Development        1994    Closing Date: Mar 31,      140.0
and Water Resources                      2000
Management
* Borrower was originally BNH. CEF and BNH were merged in 1987.



26
Table 3 - Page I of I
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                                 Date planned        Date actual/latest
estimate
Identification (Initial Executive Project Summary)                          April 12, 1988
Preparation/Preappraisal                               April 18, 1988'     April 18-20, 1988
Appraisal                                              May 1- 6, 1988       May 1- 6, 1988
Negotiations                                          May 23-25, 1988    May 31-June 6, 1988
Board Presentation                                      July 5, 1988         June 24, 1988
Signing                                                  July 1988        September 29, 1988
Effectiveness                                          August 1, 19882    December29, 1988
Project Completion                                   September 30, 1990      end of 19963
Loan Closing4                                          March 31, 1991     September 30, 1995
' Planned dates for preparation through negotiations are as per IEPS
2 As per Memorandum of the President
3Investments in solid waste treatment and disposal facilities are yet to be completed.
4 Loan closing date was extended four times, as per the following amendments:
to March 31, 1992 under amendment of March 9, 1990
to March 31, 1993 under amendment of April 6, 1992
to December 31, 1994 under amendment of March 30, 1993
to September 30, 1995 under amendment of December 23, 1994



27
Table 4 - Page 1 of I
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975- BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 4 - Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank FY            Cumulative Loan Disbursement
and Semester              Appraisal                     Actual as     Date of Final
Ending                  Estimate           Actual % of Estimate   Disbursement
1989        Dec. 1988                42.10           22.50             53.4
Jun. 1989               95.50           22.50             23.6
1990        Dec. 1989               134.40           27.09             20.2
Jun. 1990              168.00           31.48             18.7
1991        Dec. 1990               174.00           76.95            44.2
Jun. 1991              175.00           98.32             56.2
1992        Dec. 1991                               101.21             57.8
Jun. 1992                              109.44             62.5
1993        Dec. 1992                               111.97             64.0
Jun. 1993                              112.87             64.5
1994        Dec. 1993                               112.87             64.5
Jun. 1994                              112.92             64.5
1995        Dec. 1994                               133.85             76.5
Jun. 1995                              161.48             92.3
1996        Dec. 1995                               167.30             95.6  Dec.31, 1995
180.00 
160.00
140.00
120.00
.210000
Ue 80.0o
60.00
40.00
20.00 
0.00
0')     a       -       '.                     U)      to
OD     o)                              a)      0)      0)
0)  )       a)     0)      0)0             0)      0)
Bank FY
-4+Estimate           -_-Actual -



28                           Table 5 - Page I Of 5
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators         Estimated                   Actual
L In MOP and Loan Agreement
1. Road and bridge reconstruction,   122 km. of roads
rehabilitation & repair               24 bridges:
M.  State: 110 km of roads and 17  (see section II)
bridges, and 7.5 km of
retaining walls.
N.  M. of Rio: 12.5 km of roads
and 7 bridges and 3.2 km of
retaining walls
2. Drainage systems                  dredging and canalization    State: dredging and
works, construction of      canalization works in six
outfalls, dikes, and repairs to   river basins:
existing systems in 14       dredging of 62.8 km,
drainage basins (primary,   canalization of 35 km;
secondary and tertiary       construction of a retaining
drainage) (eight of which the    dam in two parts;
responsibility of the state)  M. of Rio: canalization works
in six rivers
3. Slope Stabilization               M. of Rio: 52 locations
(removal of debris, securing rock    Other municipalities:70      (see section II)
formation, drainage channels, retaining   locations
walls and barriers, planting vegetation)
4. Sewerage                           370 km of sewerage; 14,630
sewerage connections; 5
pumping stations; and 2     (see section 11)
filtering and biological
treatment plants
5. Solid Waste Disposal              6 solid waste composting
plants; 149 solid waste     (see section II)
collection vehicles'
Solid waste collection vehicles are mentioned in the Memorandum of the President, but not in the Loan
Agreement



29                            Table 5 - Page 2 Of 5
Key implementation indicators          Estimated                    Actual
6. Reforestation                       1,200 hectares on 30 slopes  (see section II)
7. Serviced sites for low-income families  11,000 minimally serviced lots
(4,000 lots to be provided by
the state to resettle 16,000
people and 7,000 by the M. of
Rio to resettle 28,000 people)   (see section II)
including:
(a) 1,120 low-income
families made homeless
by the floods;
(b) 8,280 families relocated
due to civil works; and
(c) 1,600 families in high-
risk areas
8.Public Buildings and Installations  Repair and rehabilitation of:
(a) 129 municipal (89 in Rio
and 30 in other
municipalities) and 37
state schools;
(b) reconstruction of 6 other   (see Section 2)
state public buildings; and
(c) repair and protection of
state water supply
installations (one
pumping station, 16 small
reservoirs and 8 sections
of pipes).
9. Civil Defense                      Provision of 21 emergency
rescue vehicles and equipment
(amphibious trucks, salvage    (see section II)
and lighting equipment, heavy
duty pumps and cranes)



30                           Table 5 - Page 3 0f 5
Key implementation indicators        Estimated                   Actual
II. in Subsequent Amendments
Modified Indicators
1. Road and bridge reconstruction,   State: repaving of roads,   paving repairs and
rehabilitation & repair (March 1993)  constructing retaining walls    improvements and drainage
and related drainage, repair of  works on 10 roads
some bridges, selected road    reconstruction/repairs to 10
maintenance and road        bridges; retaining walls at
management equipment for    various points of 7 roads
Avenida Brasil;
M. of Rio: repaving of roads,
construction of retaining walls
to provide drainage and repair
of 3 bridges
3. Slope stabilization (March 1990)  M. of Rio: 49 locations      M. of Rio: 152 lots (1,000
Other municipalities:70     work sites); M. of Petropolis:
locations                   25 lots (500 work sites)
4(a). Sewerage (March 1990)          9.5 km of primary sewage
collectors, 60.5 km of
secondary sewage collectors,   (see 4.b below)
17,000 sewerage connections,
3 pumping stations and I
treatment plant.
4(b). Sewerage (March 1993)          subprojects for installation of   14.3 km of primary
primary sewage collectors,  collectors, 67 km of
secondary sewege collectors,   secondary sewage collectors;
pumping stations and a      9,718 sewerage connections;
treatment plant.            3 pumping stations and I
treatment plant (stabilization
pond)
5. Solid waste treatment (March 1993)    Solid waste system in the  3 solid waste composting
municipalities of Nova Iguaqu, plants 2(each with recycling
Queimados,Belford Roxo and   facilities, hospital waste
Japeri                      incinerator and sanitary
landfill); 32 mobile
equipment for plants and
landfills; and 4 collection
vehicles
2not yet completed



31                           Table 5 - Page 4 Of 5
Key implementation indicators        Estimated                   Actual
6. Reforestation (March 1993)        900 hectares in Rio and     745 hectares in 13 slopes (12
Petropolis slopes, riverbanks,  in Rio de Janeiro and one in
mangrove recovery and pilot   Nova Iguaqu)
program of urban forest
recreation use
7 (a). serviced sites for resettled families   12,400 lots (7,000 urbanized
(March 1990)                         lots to be provided by the state
and Petropolis to resettle
35,000 people and 5,400     (see 7 (b) below)
minimally serviced by the M.
of Rio to resettle 21,600
people)
7 (b). Serviced sites for resettled families  6,500 lots (3,500 urbanized    9,233 serviced lots (4,089 by
(March 1993)                         lots to be provided by the state  the state, including 1,033 in
to resettle 25,000, and 3,000    Petropolis, and 5,144 by the
urbanized lots to be provided   M. of Rio) for:
by the M. of Rio to resettle    (a) 5,805 low income
10,000)                         families living in areas
which benefitted from
urban infrastructure
provided under the
project, including most
families made homeless
by the floods;
(b) 1,942 families displaced
by civil works under the
drainage component3;
(c) 1,050 families displaced
from risk areas; and
(d) 436 families to benefit
from future distribution.
In addition, the project
financed the provision of
water/sewerage to Morro
Dona Marta.
3992 units are yet to be delivered in Barro Vermelho and Campo do America



32
Table S - Page 5 Of 5
Key implementation indicators        Estimated                   Actual
8. Public Buildings                  37 schools and 6 public     (a) two municipal schools
buildings by the state and 89   (I in Rio and I in
schools by the M. of Rio (no    Nilopolis); and
financing beyond March 31,   (b) repairs and
1993)                          improvements to 2 water
supply pipes in
Petropolis (75%
completed, works
paralized due to
difficulties with
contractors)
9. Civil Defense                     acquisition of emergency     12 fire-fighting trucks, 9
rescue vehicles and equipment  search and salvage vehicles
(remaining wording identical  and 2 cranes.
to section I above)



3.3
Table 6 - Page I of 3
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 6 - Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicators                  Estimated                    Actual
I. Key Operating Indicators
in Memorandum of the    not available                not available
President
II . Modified Indicators
1- Rainfall Measured by                                Feb. 3, 1988: 184 mm
Bangu Monitoring Station                               Feb. 13, 1996: 151 mm
2- Flooded Area              40% less than the 1988 Rio   During the heavy rains of
flood, in similar heavy rains   1996, flooded area in the
project areas was not
significant
3- Water Level and Volume in                           During February 1996 the
the Project-financed Gericino                          water level in this dam reached
Dam                                                     19m, and about 5.5 million
cubic meters could be
contained
4 - Incidence of Landslides in                         During the heavy rains of
the Project Areas                                       1996, no significant landslides
were reported in the project
areas of Rio and Petropolis,
while important landslides
occurred in areas outside the
project (Jacarepagua and
Itaguai).
5- Satisfaction Survey of
Resettled Families                                     Surveys carried out by the
State of Rio and the
Municipality of Rio indicated
that 70% of the families
relocated by the State and 85%



34                       Table 6 - Page 2 of 3
Indicators                  Estimated                      Actual
of the families relocated by the
Municipality are satisfied.
6- Deaths due to Flooding
and Landslides                                           In the Municipality of Rio:
1988    58
1989     9
1990     5
1991     2
1992     8
1993    14
1994     1
1995     5
1996    45
HI. Modified Indicators for
Future Operation (in
addition to the above
indicators)
1 - Changes in Tax Collection
(IPTU) by the Municipalities
of the Project Area
2 - Flooded Area
3 - State and Municipal
Budgets for Maintenance of
Drainage Systems, Slopes and
Forests
4- Incidence of Diseases
Transmitted by Water
* Hepatitis
* Leptospirosis
6 - Losses of Property due to:
(a) floods; and (b) landslides



Table 6 - Page 3 of 3
Indicators                  Estimated                     Actual
7 - Interruptions of Train and
Road Traffic
8 - Cost of Repairs and of
Dealing with Emergencies
9 - Casualties (deaths, and
injured) and homelessness
related to floods and
landslides, in relation to
rainfall



Table 7 - Page I of 11
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7: Technical Assistance and Studies Included in Project
Study                Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                   Status                     Impact of Study
Studies to be Carried out by the State
1. Civil Defense Plan for  Defined at appraisal. For different types of possible  After purchase of civil defense  Negligible
the Greater          disasters (floods, landslides, fires in high rises, toxic  equipment, a plan was submitted to
Metropolitan Region   waste spillage, etc.): assessment of risks and     the Bank in March 1992, focused on
vulnerability to disasters, physical and institutional  the Baixada and Av. Brazil,
arrangements to prevent disasters and/or minimize  consisting of additional equipment
damage and reduce risks, institutional preparedness for   requirements, a plan for training
response to disasters, multi-agency coordination,  civil defense staff ,and TORs for
reconstruction mechanisms and financing sources.   hydro-meteorological studies.
Comments made by the Bank in                                           w
March 1992 and February 1993                                          o0
were seemingly not incorporated
into the TORs of the consultant
eventually hired by GEROE to
execute the plan in 1994. Since the
consultant was not hired according
to Bank Guidelines, and the Bank
did not agree to fund some of the
proposed activities, this plan was not
financed by the Bank. In the end,
implementation was limited to a
series of courses in four
municipalities for mayors, municipal
officials and community leaders on
initial measures to be taken in case
of emergency. Suspended following
abolition of Civil Defense
Secretariat.



Table 7 - Page 2 of 11
Study                Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                    Status                      Impact of Study
2. Medium and long      Defined at appraisal. Discussion of technical, financial    Not implemented, due to IEF's  None
term reforestation   and institutional aspects of the program, description of    inability to submit acceptable terms
plan for the state of    the state secretariat of the environment and its  of reference.
Rio de Janeiro       institutional capacity to implement the program;
proposed arrangements for protecting the reforested
areas; discussion of land tenure issues; and schedule for
implementing the program.
3. Program for slope    Defined at appraisal. Comprehensive, detailed,       Prepared by a consulting firm under  Identified 18 areas of extreme
containment in the   integrated medium and long term development plan for   an agreement with UERJ, but limited  risk in these three
state of Rio         slope stabilization in the state of Rio             to Sao Gonsalo, Niteroi and         municipalities, and proposed
Petropolis.                        and implemented an
environmental education
program in these communities
aiming at improved safety.
Since the plan did not cover the
rest of the state, it did not
address the areas most affected
by the 1996 heavy rains
(Jacarepagua/Itaguai).



Table 7 - Page 3 of 11
Study                Purpose as defined at appraisaVredefined                    Status                      Impact of Study
4. Program to improve   Defined at appraisal. Preparation of a master plan for  Contracted in August 1990 to a  The program resulted in the
the management of    final disposal of solid waste in the metropolitan region of  consulting firm. Completed in  inclusion of three waste
solid waste          RJ, including phasing of proposed actions, identification   March 1991. Focused on physical    disposal and treatment facilities
of operational costs of existing services, financial  infrastructure and equipment needs,   under the project (Nova
projections for implementing the proposals,         neglecting operational, cost recovery  Iguacu, Belford Roxo and
recommendations for appropriate tariff and other charges  and institutional arrangements.  Queimados), and identified 4
to ensure full cost recovery, and policies and      Resulted in the contracting of     other which are included under
mechanisms by which participating municipalities will   engineering designs for treatment    the Guanabara Bay pollution
contribute towards capital and operating costs and  and disposal plants in three       control project (Sao Gonsalo,
recover these from beneficiaries.                   municipalities.                    Sao Joao de Meriti, Niteroi and
Mage). It failed, however, to
establish an institutional
(including role of private
operators) and cost recovery
framework for the
municipalities to manage these
facilities and improve waste        w
collection.                          oo



Table 7 - Page 4 of 11
Study               Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                Status                     Impact of Study
5. Program in          Defined at appraisal. To be designed to ensure    Following presentation of        Negligible. Inability to carry
environmental       conservation and maintenance of actions included under  unsatisfactory TORs, and inability of  out such a program will impact
education           the project.                                      FEEMA to produce a concrete      negatively on project
program (link with works under the   sustainability.
project, methodology, areas of
concentration, resources, etc..), it
was eventually agreed to limit the
program to a pilot project to test and
further develop the methodology
(for later expansion of the program
under the Guanabara Bay de-
pollution project). As the contract
was awarded and signed without
Bank approval, and the Bank did not
concur with its timing, the Bank
refused to finance it. Some actions
were thus funded by the state                                       w
government, limited to training of                                  NO
community agents and production of
promotion material.
6. Program to          Defined at appraisal. Preparation and implementation of  Initiated in December 1989, under a   Since there was no follow up to
strengthen the fiscal   a program to improve tax administration (revision of  cooperation contract between  the studies initial diagnostics
administration of the   cadasters and improvements in financial administration)   SEDUR, UERJ (Nucleo Superior de  and recommendations, the
beneficiary         in Petropolis and the seven Baixada municipalities,  Estudos Fazendarios- NUSEF) and   impact of the study was
municipalities      including identification of deficiencies; proposing a  FUNDREM. Only partly completed   negligible.
program of remedial actions; assisting with the  (limited to identification of
contracting of consultants and purchase of necessary  deficiencies and need for remedial
computer equipment; and training of municipal officials.  actions).
Intended to better ensure sustainability of project actions
by improving their ability to contribute to operation and
maintenance.



Table 7 - Page 5 of 11
Study                Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                 Status                      Impact of Study
7. Water resources     Included in Loan Agreement amendment of March 1993.  Carried out by a team of        If implemented, the program
master plan for the    Main objectives are: (I) to contribute to the establishment COPPE/UFRJ in collaboration with   would eliminate all inhabited
Iguaqu river basin    of the water resources management system of the state of  SERLA, under an agreement with    floodable areas in the basin and
Rio de Janeiro; (ii) elaboration of a master plan for the    UNDP. Final report sent end-  develop ways to ensure
Iguasu/ Sarapui basin with emphasis on flood control; and September 1996.            sustainability (waste collection,
(iii) outline long-range strategies for implementation of                            reforestation, natural resource
the plan and its expansion to other areas.                                           management, zoning, etc).
Since the program was
developed with the continuous
participation and full support of
affected population, it is likely
to be sustainable if
implemented. This study
paved the way for the
development of similar
programs for the Guanabara
Bay, Paraiba do Sul river basin    4
and other.                         C
8. Digital and         Diagnostic and analysis of the physical, social and                                  Centralized in Fundagao CIDE
conventional        environmental situation of the state and the Paraiba do                             (SECPLAN), data will be
mapping of the State  Sul water basin (which also extends over the states of                             widely used in planning by
of Rio de Janeiro  Minas Gerais and Sao Paulo), using satellite imagery.                                 researchers and public and
and the Paraiba do    Output to include maps on: soil use and vegetation,                                private agents. It is also being
Sul water basin    urban occupation, physical/environmental                                              used in planning under the
characteristics; water resources; and main road                                      Guanabara Pollution Control
infrastructure.                                                                      project and the preparation of a
Water Resources project for the
Paraiba do Sul basin



Table 7 - Page 6 of 11
Study                Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                  Status                     Impact of Study
Studies to be carried-out by the Municipality of Rio
9. Educational program   Defined at appraisal. Final TORs approved by Bank  Not implemented
for Handling and    mission of September 1993. To be implemented in Rio
disposal of solid  favelas by the Municipal Secretariat for Social
waste               Development, with materials and equipment purchased
under the project.
10. Educational program   Defined at appraisal. Final TORs approved by Bank  Not implemented
for Low-cost housing  mission of September 1993. To be implemented in Rio
construction using   favelas by the Municipal Secretariat for Social
self-help methods    Development, with materials and equipment purchased
under the project.
11. Educational        Defined at appraisal. Final TORs approved by Bank  Not implemented
programs for         mission of September 1993. To be implemented in Rio                                                                      .
Prevention of        favelas by the Municipal Secretariat for Social
reoccupation of      Development, with materials and equipment purchased
hazardous sites      under the project.
12. Educational        Defined at appraisal. Final TORs approved by Bank  Not implemented
programs for        mission of September 1993. To be implemented in Rio
forestry protection    favelas by the Municipal Secretariat for Social
Development, with materials and equipment purchased
under the project.
13. Program for        Defined at appraisal.                              Terms of reference approved by
inspection and                                                         April 1991. Not implemented
control of illegal and
informal mineral
exploration



Table 7 - Page 7 of ll
Study               Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                Status                     Impact of Study
14. Strengthening of the  Defined at appraisal. The municipality contracted in  Completed. Contracted directly  Contributed to substantial
fiscal administration   1988 a program of preparation and permanent updating   from IPLANRIO in February 1990   improvements in the M. of
of the Municipality   of its property cadaster.                      (Phase I) and December 1990 (Phase  Rio's financial situation and
of Rio                                                               II). Phase II was completed in   permitted implementation of
March 1991. Now being updated/   the agreed financial action
improved on basis of latest      plan. Now being
technologies.                    revised/refined using more
precise geoprocessing
techniques and better
integration with municipal
finance and urban development
secretariats.
15. Institutional     Included in amendment, dated March 30, 1993.       Contracted directly from IBAM in   Identified and discussed with
development and    Summary of history of metropolitan organizations in  June 1994. Completed in May 1995. municipal authorities during
management of the   RMRJ and their legal framework; identification of                                 various seminars, mechanisms
metropolitan area of  problems including lack of mechanisms for coordinating                          for better integration of actions
Rio de Janeiro     services of metropolitan interest; and identification and                          in areas of common interest.
evaluation of alternative means (including of legal,                               Results are being used by state
financial and organizational implications).                                        and municipal governments for
project planning (including for
the Guanabara Bay de-
pollution project)



Table 7 - Page 8 of 11
Study                Purpose as defined at appraisaUredefined                   Status                     Impact of Study
16. Review of changes   Included in amendment dated March 30, 1993. Analysis  Contracted directly to IBAM in June  Study perfonned a thorough
in financial        of revenues and expenditures of the 17 municipalities of   1994. Completed in May 1995.  diagnostic of state of municipal
management of the   the metropolitan region of RJ over the period 1985-92.                               finance and administration of
municipalities of the  Study would document trends overtime (noting impact of                            each municipality. Determined
metropolitan region   1988 Constitutional Reform), and disparities between                               that 1988 Constitution did
of RJ.              municipalities, and recommend actions within the                                     increase significantly resources
control of municipal administrations to increase revenues                            obtained from tax collection
and improve effectiveness of expenditures.                                           (local taxes and automatic tax
transfers from federal and state
governments), but did not
result in significant
improvements in administrative
systems and financial and
budget management. Study
recommended strong emphasis
on professional training of
municipal officials and             _
increased delegation of            w
authority from mayors to
finance secretariats. Study has
not so. far been followed by
sy stematic action programs to
promote implementation of
recommendations at the
municipal level.
17. Structuring transport  Included in amendment dated March 30, 1993. (A)  Contracted in September 1994.    Results are being used by all
in the metropolitan   improving information data base through an       Completed in 1995. Surveyed 5,000   transport planning agencies. A
region of RJ.       origin/destination household survey, field traffic counts   household and provided first well-    permanent working group
and assignment and calibration of traffic flows; (b)  documented data on origin and  within IPLANRIO is working
evaluation of mechanisms for more permanent        destination by transport mode and  on the basis of study results
institutional arrangements for coordinating transport  type of households.          towards the articulation of a
planning in the region.                                                              mass transport plan for the
metropolitan area. Results are
also being used in the
preparation of the Rio Mass
Transit Project.



Table 7 - Page 9 of 11
Study                Purpose as defined at appraisal/redeflned                 Status                      Impact of Study
18. Data communication  Included in amendment dated March 30, 1993. (A)   contracted in October 1994.       Equipment limitations in
network in the      Survey of availability of consistent data on the physical   Completed in 1995.       municipalities other than M. of
metropolitan region   and demographic characteristics, municipal revenues and                            Rio prevented the
of RJ.              expenditures, environmental quality and coverage of                                  establishment of a data base for
infrastructure, and educational and health facilities in the                         the metropolitan region.
17 municipalities of the metropolitan region; (b)                                    (Equipment could not be
preparation of a plan for the incorporation of these data                            procured under the project)
into a regional data base; and (c) testing of system in                              The data base was established
Rio, Niteroi and Nova Iguasu.                                                        for the M. of Rio on the basis
of data available in the
municipal secretariats, and is a
powerful help to urban
planning. This interactive data
base and is now being
constantly updated and
extended to other sectors (basic
sanitation, ICMS collection).
Data was recently consolidated
into the first comprehensive
statistical yearbook for the M.
of Rio.
19. Evaluation of 10   Included in amendment dated March 30, 1993. Assess    Contracted in October 1994.    Study and maps about to be
nature conservation   physical and biological characteristics and management   Completed in 1995. Detailed  published. State
units in the        status of federal, state and municipal environmental  diagnostic and management      Environmental
metropolitan region   conservation units in the RMRJ (including detailed  recommendations for 3 federal, 3  Secretariat/FEEMA interested
of RJ.              mapping) and make proposals for future monitoring and   state and 4 municipal conservation    in results but, similar to
management for each area, the recuperation of degraded   areas, with strong participation of    IBAMA, have not followed up
sections, and the creation of new conservation units.  municipal environmental secretariat,  on recommendations. Study
but little interest from IBAMA and    results are being better used by
state environmental secretariat  the Rio municipal
during the execution of the study.  environmental secretariat for
the conservation areas under its
jurisdiction.



Table 7 - Page 10 of 11
Study                 Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                   Status                      Impact of Study
20. Relationship        Included in amendment dated March 30, 1993.          Contracted from Fiocruz in June    Dissemination and discussion
between health and    Document spatial incidence of specific health problems    1994. Completed in 1995. Resulted   of results was carried out in
environmental       and risks and their correlation with the supply of basic    in mapping incidence of diseases  various courses and seminars
quality in the      sanitation infrastructure, public health services, and  and their link with environmental  directed to municipal health
metropolitan region   pollution, and define specific intervention strategies to    and sanitary conditions on the basis   secretariats in the metropolitan
o RJ.               address them.                                        of information available in        region. Same work now being
municipal health secretariats.     done by Fiocruz in the other
Performed in the M. of Rio, and two  municipalities of the
others (including Belfort Roxo)    metropolitan region.
21. Evaluation of the   Included in amendment dated March 30, 1993.          Contracted in October 1994.        Study shows high degree of
project resettlement   Evaluation of socio-economic impact of the urbanized  Completed in 1995.             satisfaction of resettled persons
component.          lots component of the Rio Flood Reconstruction Project,                                 with houses and basic
including a survey of areas which were vacated, and,                                   infrastructure provided, but
based on assessment, propose changes in policies and                                   also complaints of lack of
procedures used in resettlement projects in the RMRJ.                                  community services (in
particular security, health,         tn
education, tree planting and
leisure infrastructure). Study
shows strong link between
permanence in the area and
degree of beneficiary
involvement in project
planning and execution, and
environmental education.
Results are being used to adjust
municipal housing policy
policies, in particular. In the
framework of the "Favela-
Bairro" project.



Table 7 - Page 11 of 11
Study                Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                  Status                     Impact of Study
22. Evaluation of the   Included in amendment dated March 30, 1993.        Contracted directly from Fundasao    Study provided and tested a
socio-economic      Assemble socio-economic data from existing census and   Universitaria Jose Bonifacio in  methodology for
profile of          other data bases; produce indicators of socio-economic    September 1994. Completed and  disaggregating data collected
subdistricts in the  conditions by sub-districts; analyze changes between  published in 1995.            under federal household
metropolitan region   censuses; and disseminate results.                                                 surveys at the level of the
of RJ.                                                                                                   metropolitan region to the
municipal and sub-municipal
level. Study permitted a
detailed geographic assessment
of key socio-economic
conditions (demographic,
income, education, economic
activity, family, housing and
basic sanitation).
0.f



Table 8A - Page 1 of 1
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975- BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table BA- Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                       Actual/Latest Estimate
of which to
Project Component            Local    Foreign    Total           Local    Foreign    Total   be Completed
(USS Million)                              (USS Milion)
Roads and Bridges
- A.1 State                                                                                     26.76           1.24
- B.1 Municipality of Rio                                                                         9.62
Subtotal                  21.15      14.69     35.84          21.47      14.91     36.38          1.24
Drainage
-A.2 State                                                                                      158.85         16.90
- B.2 Municipality of Rio                                                                        17.33
Subtotal                 101.89     54.86     156.75         114.52     61.66     176.18         16.90
Slope Stabilization
- B.3 Municipality of Rio                                                                       28.48
-C.1 OtherMunicipalities                                                                        22.16          0.06
Subtotal                  49.06       8.66     57.72          43.04       7.60     50.64          0.06
Sewerage
50.49
Subtotal                  17.45      9.40      26.85          32.82      17.68     50.49
Solid Waste
- A.4 State 11                                                                                   6.88           1.84
Subtotal                   4.38      2.36       6.74           4.47       241       6.88          1.84
Reforestation
- A.5 State                                                                                      3.93
Subtotal                   5.59      0.99       6.58           3.34      0.59       3.93
Serviced Sites 2/
- A.6 State                                                                                     28.39           1.97
-B.4 Municipality of Rio                                                                        21.03           0.58
Subtotal                  30.72       3.43     34.15          44.45       4.96     49.42          2.56
Public Buildings
-A.7 State                                                                                        1.11          0.38
-B.5 Municipality of Rio                                                                          0.26
-C2 Other Municipalities                                                                          0.01
Subtotal                   9.79       1.73     11.52           1.17       0.21      1.38          0.38
Civil Defense
- A.8 State                                                                                       5.77
Subtotal                              6.01      6.01           0.00      5.77       5.77
Technical Assistance
- A.9 State                                                                                     20.61          0.54
-B.6 Municipality of Rio                                                                         4.53
Subtotal                   3.29       0.58      3.87          21.37      3.77      25.14          0.54
Project Administration
- A.10 State (GEROE) 31
Subtotal                   1.40                 1.40
Project Base Cost    244.72    102.71    347.43
Physical Contingencies                  25.21      10.58     35.79
Price Contingencies                      7.33       3.07     10.40
Total Project Cost   277.26    116.36    393.62           286.651   119.65    406.21          23.51
Total Spent as of December 31, 1995                                                              382.70
Notes:
11 Representatives of SOSP indicated that, due to major delays in the construction of the three solid waste composting piants of Belford Roxo,
Queimados and Nova Iguacu their completion may in fact require about US$3 million.
2/ Appraisal estimate for serviced sites includes US$11.27 million for land purchases.
31 the costs of GEROE were paid by the State. While the amount was not indicated, it is probably indluded in the technical assistance component (A9).



48                             Table 8B- Page I of 1
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975- BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8B - Project Financing
Appraisal Estimates                       Actual Estimates
Of which to
Source                Local Cost Foreign Cost   Total   Local Cost Foreign Cost   Total   be Completed
(US$ million)                           (US$ million)
World Bank                   58.6       116.4      175.0       47.8      119.55      167.4
Caixa Economica Federal     190.1                  190.1     186.6                   186.6           8.7
State of Rio de Janeiro      19.8                   19.8      46.2                    46.2          14.2
Municipalities               8.7                     8.7       6.0                     6.0           0.6
Total     277.2        116.4     393.6      286.7       119.55     406.2          23.5
Total Spent as of
December 31,1995                                             263.2       119.55      382.7



49                  Table 9 - Page 1 of 2
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No financial or economic cost and benefit analyses were carried out at appraisal. The
COPPE/UFRJ team, which prepared the Iguacu River Master Plan, prepared an ex-post
financial cost- benefit analysis of the part of state drainage component, using the
mathematical model developed for the master plan. Their report is attached in Annex 3 and
summarized and commented below. This financial analysis may be considered as a lower
bound of the economic analysis (the main difference would consist of indirect taxes on
investment and maintenance costs).
Summary of COPPE/UFRJAnalysis
This analysis covers project investments in the seven sub-basins of the Iguacu/Sarapui
rivers basin, representing about 50% of the state drainage component investments, and
benefiting a total population of 161,300. These sub-basins were selected because they are part
of the Master Plan for the Iguacu/Sarapui basin, for which data were therefore available from
field surveys and from the mathematical model developed to assess costs and benefits of
individual investments for the Master Plan.
Costs include actual investment costs. Estimated benefits include: (a) losses to
property and belongings avoided; (b) income losses due to interruption of work and time
needed for repairs; and (c) incremental health care costs due to leptospirosis outbreaks
(hospital care, drugs and resting time at home). Average annual benefits were derived from
the above, a population growth of 1.22% per year, and the probabilistic recurrence of flood
intensity. Net present values of costs and benefits were calculated over a 30-year estimated
life-time of the investments, assuming a 12% discount rate, and assuming that all investment
are made during the first year.
Results show yearly benefits of US$ (or R$) 65 million for a total investment of
US$78 million, and a benefit cost ratio of 6.5 (costs exclude maintenance costs).
Comments and Extrapolation
An individual rate of return was calculated for each sub-basin based on the same
hypotheses, and an extrapolation was made for the entire state drainage component, using the
following additional assumptions: (a) annual maintenance costs were assigned at a rate of
2.2% of investment costs (equivalent to US$3.5 million per year indicated by SERLA,
including periodic dredging of canals and rivers every 7 years); (b) extrapolation of the
remaining drainage investments was done on the basis of only the five most representative



50
Table 9 - Page 2 of 2
sub-basins' (the attached map shows the location of all investments under the state investment
component). Results are presented below:
Sub-Basin                             Internal Rate of Return     Net Present Value
/%                 US$ Million
1 - Botas Montante                              40                       5.2
2 - Machambomba                                 61                       14.6
3 - Iguacu-Botas                                29                       23.8
4 - Sarapui Montante                           >100                     181.4
5 - Sarapui Jusante                             58                       72.2
6 - Rosali                                     >100                      59.2
7 - Jacatirao                                   26                       12.9
Total 1 to 7                                    81                      386.6
Total excluding Sarapui Montante
and Rosali                                45                      146.0
Remaining areas                                 45                      192.0
Total State Drainage Component                  63                      578.6
Sensitivity Analysis - As shown below, the estimated rate of return for the project is
not sensitive to maintenance costs. Furthermore, it is not very sensitive to benefits since it
would take a reduction of benefits by over 70% to decrease the rate of return to 12%.
Rate of Return          Net Present Value
%                    US$ million
Base Case                                  63                       578.6
Maintenance Costs + 100%                   61                      553.5
Benefits:  -20%                            50                      429.5
-50%                             30                      205.0
-70%                             17                      56.7
- 80%                            10                      -17.9
Benefits -50% and Maintenance
Costs +100%                                28                       180.0
The Sarapui Montante and Rosali sub-basins are not representative because: the Sarapui Montante
basin which is highly populated, essentially benefited from the construction of the Gericino dam; and
the Rosali investment in mesodrainage of affluents and canals benefited a large population at a small
cost.



*                 ~~~OBRAS CONCLUIDAS
GOVERNO DO ESTADO DO R10 DE JANEIRO SzxOMCNLIA
()Canal a~oV.Guanabara - foz
SECRETARIA DE MEIO0 AM B I E NTE                                                                                             av,'d_=Bu^n_880-ll=t .. M. M=Hermslav. Amoricas
:-.- f  ....... .;                                                                                                     ;:': X :.E  02l-:;::: f::'  R _ = Z l I (!) Canaliiagio V.Guanabara - av.Am6ricas
- (3) Dragagem Canal do Cunha
:4: Ponte av.Suburbana - Rio Jacare
-   Canalizaao rio Jacar6
Canalizao afluentes do ro Bota
(EstrelalBranca e Caramuru)
07  Dragagem do Pavuna/Meriti
Q_   Canalizagao do Pavuna (Lotes I e 2)
Barragem do rio Pavune
-l                         i                         Cf - >) Av.<Afluentes do dio Sarapul Pavuna(Meriti e Igua2u
Barragem do Gericin6
Canaliza9ao V.DJ1io Guaranai
|  .....uquedeCaxias ....                          # <              <)            |C analdo                       Canalizacao V.Ant6nc o Nohra
|~.i- -M age   |  .  RioJoana   wn u  (134  Canaliz. VCoelho da Rocha
Av Pros.  2                                                           Canaliz. V.TRio de Ouro e Vilar dos Telles
.0  -"~'~       Canaliza9ao V.Alberto de Oliveira (Trecho Jusante)
Linha ~   ~      ~     OU/6{S    aaoPnu
-'~~~~~~  Linha                          C~~~~1-)  anal Auxiliar do Sarapul
thVemrnelha
18Canaliza9io V.Vila Rosaly
...... .......  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     -~ --~~'~Canaliz. av.Presidente Kennedy
:i;;20Dragagem Sarapul
-- ___~'~   ' 0    Canalizaglo dio Jacatirlo (Trecho I e 2)
Dragagem dos dios lgu9u e Bota jusante
~~ (~~~2) Dragagom do rio Bota - Montante
Dragagm e comportas do Pilar e canalizagio
Drenagevr~ do bairro Xavantes e obras
Belford Roxo                                                                              a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    mergenciais no rio Bota
Canal    ~ ~ ~ 26Canalizaglo Machambomba
mag6                                           ~~~~ ~~~~Rio Joania    Mangue                    (~7) Canal do Outeiro
(*)    []P~~raga                    (0) Prote90o de taludes ria nomd
MamcanI~~~~~       BandeIm                        Canalizaglo av.Serenidade
Novaiguagu  ~~~Ri  Mraan    ~ ~Dragagem e comportas do Canal Barbuda e
- Rio de Janeiro ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ro arcdrenagem r.Flores - Mag6
 Conjunto  iss
El-S. J. de Meriti                Obras Concluldas                                                                  (3:) \38   lau



Table 10 - Page 1 of 7
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original      Revised
Agreement   Section       Covenant       Present    Fulfillment    Fulfillment          Description of Covenant                         Comments
Tvpe         Status         Date          Date
Loan         3.01 (a)   Institutional       C                                    CEF not to take action that could
prevent State and Municipality
efficiency.
Loan         3.01 (d)   Counterpart         CD       12/31/88       12/31/1994    CEF to make available as counterpart  During project implementation the amounts and
and       funds                                                     funds under CEF loans, aggregate      fulfillment were revised 3 times as follows: (a)
amounts on a cumulative basis        addendum to LA dated March 9, 1990 specifies
equivalent to US$57 million before   US$57 million before 8/31/1989, US$114
8/31/1988, US$114 million before     million before 9/30/1990 and US$190 million
10/31/1988 and US$190.1 million      before September 30,1991; (b) addendum to LA
before 12/31/1988.                   dated March 30, 1993 specifies, first, that CEF   ,,
will only finance a total of US$114 million
before 12/31/1994 and second, that the state will
finance on behalf of CEF up to US$62 million in
addition to its own contribution (US$20 million);
and (c) addendum to LA dated July 29, 1994
specifies US$75 million before March 31, 1994
and US$176 million before December 31, 1994.
Loan         4.01       Monitoring          C                                     adequate CEF staffing and management
of project.
Loan         5.01 (a)   Accounts/           C        June 30 of                   CEF financial statements and project  The 1995 audit report was sent to the Bank on
(b) & (c)  Audits                      each year                    accounts for each fiscal year to be   October 15, 1996.
audited by auditors acceptable to the
Bank. CEF to furnish certified copies of
audited financial statements and the
audit report not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year.



Table 10 - Page 2 of 7
Orieinal      Revised
Aereement   Section     Covenant       Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment        Description of Covenant                       Comments
YlTvpet Status           Date          Date
Loan         7.01      Disbursement       C       December 29,                Additional conditions to the        Effectiveness was declared on December 29,
conditions                 1988                        effectiveness of the Loan Agreement,    1988.
including LA duly registered with
Central Bank, the State and Rio SLAs
with CEF have been executed, the state
has entered into Municipal SLAs for at
least 75% of all loans to be made under
the municipal SLAs and the state and
Rio have entered into an agreement
defining their obligations with respect to
the carrying out of the project.
Loan         Schedule  Counterpart        CD      March of each               In addition to section 3.01 of Loan  In fact, at appraisal the Bank was not aware of
1, 3 (b)   funds                     year                        Agreement, Schedule 1 conditions    CEF loan procedures., in particular, that CEF
withdrawals to evidence to be received   loans were to be appraised and signed for each
by the Bank before March 31 of each  specific sub-project. Technically, during the
year that the aggregate disbursements    first eighteen months of the project, while project
from the CEF loans during the previous  implementation was being seriously delayed due  -
calendar year shall have been at least    to lack of counterpart funds, CEF was in  N
equal to 75%, as set forth in the   compliance with the few sub-projects it had
disbursement schedules of the       approved.
respective CEF loan Agreements.
Loan         Schedule  Studies and        CP                                  Consultants to be hired in accordance  Consultants for the preparation of the civil
4,       technical                                               with Bank guidelines.               defense plan and of the environmental education
Section    assistance                                                                                program were directly hired by GEROE without
II                                                                                                   prior Bank acceptance. The Bank therefore did
not accept to finance these contracts.
Loan         Schedule  Disbursement       C                                   Payments out of the special account to
5 paras.  definitions and                                        be made exclusively for eligible
2 and 4    conditions                                            expenditures and evidence furnished to
the Bank.
State Project  2.01 (a)  Institutional   CD                                   State to carry out project with due
Agreement                                                                     diligence and efficiency in conformnity
with appropriate practices including
environment and to provide as needed
funds, and other resources and facilities
required for part A and C of the project.



Table 10 - Page 3 of 7
Original      Revised
Aereement   Section      Covenant      Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment         DescriDtion of Covenant                       Comments
Type         Status        Date         Date
State Project  2.01 0  Resettlement       CD                                  State to carry out the State Resettlement  Delays occurred in the resettlement program
Agreement                                                                     Plan.                                implementation, resulting in difficulties and
delays in the implementation of the drainage
component.
State Project  2.02    Procurement         C                                  Procurement of goods, works and
Agreement                                                                      services to be financed, according to
Schedule 4 of Loan Agreement
State Project  2.05    Project            CP                                  The State shall relend the proceeds  Except for a single agreement with Nilopolis
Agreement              Implement.                                              allocated to part C of the project to the    where a public building was rebuilt, the State
Arrangements                                           municipalities under agreements (SLAs)  entered into a substantial agreement only with
the municipality of Petropolis.
State Project  2.07    Project             C                                  The State to provide staff, funds and  In fact, GEROE did not supervise Part B of the
Agreement              Implement.                                              other facilities to GEROE to coordinate  project, which was coordinated without major
Arrangements                                           Parts A&C and supervise the execution   problems by the "Assessoria de Captacao de
of Part B of the prject.            Recursos externos" (ACR) of the Municipality of  V
Rio.
State Project  2.08    Monitoring          C                                  GEROE to furnish quarterly progress
Agreement                                                                     reports to the Bank and CEF for Parts A
& C of the project.
State Project  2.09 (a)   Facilities      NC                                  State to operate and maintain (or cause    SERLA indicated that there is no maintenance
Agreement              maintenance                                            to) the facilities provided under the  budget for the drainage facilities.. The problem
project.                            of solid waste collection was not fully addressed,
the operation and maintenanie responsibility of
the three composting plants which are being
constructed is not yet defined..



Table 10 - Page 4 of 7
Original      Revised
Agreement   Section      Covenant      Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment         Description of Covenant                       Comments
T.Me         Status       Date          Date
State Project  2.09 (b)   Financial       NC                                  For purpose of financing operation and   A study to define the actions necessary to
Agreement                                                                     maintenance of the facilities, State  improve the financial situation of the
should cause the Municipalities to  Municipalities of the Baxaida Fluminense was
maintain or increase taxes and user  contracted, however, as of mid-1996, the
charges, to cover at least the operating    recommendations of this study were not
and maintenance costs of such facilities.  implemented nor even discussed with the
Municipalities. In addition, as already indicated,
operation and maintenance financing of the three
composting plants which are being constructed
are not yet defined. However, recently, the
Municipality of Petropolis has started a major
updating and modernization of its property
cadaster.
State Project  3.01 (a)   Accounts/       C                                   State to maintain (or cause the
Agreemnent             audits                                                 Municipalities to) separate records and
accounts in respect to Part A and C of
the Project                                                                     %
Statec Project  3.01 (b)   Accounts/              June 30 of                  State to have above project accounts for  The 1995 auditor's was received by the Bank.
Agreement              audits                     each year                    each fiscal year audited by auditors
acceptable to the Banla State to firnish
the auditor's report not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year.



Table 10 - Page 5 of 7
Original      Revised
Agreement   Section       Covenant       Present     Fulfillment    Fulfillment        Description of Covenant                         Comments
Type         Status        Date           Date
State Project  3.02 (a)   Financiial        CP                                    State to carry out the State financial  ICM revenues decreased d by 8 % over 1987 in
Agreement                                                                         Action Program in a manner and        1988 and thereafter increased by 12% over 1987
according to timetable satisfactory to the  for 1989 in Reais;
Bank. This action program was
detailed in a supplemental letter and  The water company did increase its tariffs to
included: (a) increase revenues from  bring them to the National Tariff Law;
the value added tax (ICM) over 1987
by 35% in 1988 and 50% for 1989 in   As of mid-1996 no differential users charges for
real terms; (b) the State water company   solid waste services were introduced by the
to increase water and sewerage tariffs to   municipalities of the Baxaida Fluminense;
bring them to the National Tariff Law;
(c) develop a program with the       SERLA prepared a program of systematic
Municipalities to introduce not later  maintenance, however, the needed resources to
than March 1, 1989 differential users  implement such program were not made
charges for solid waste services; and (d)   available.
cause SERLA to complete an analysis
of the cost of maintaining the State's  In spite of this program of actions, as of mid-
macro drainage network, implement    1996, the financial situation of State remain very   _n
starting January 1, 1989, a program of   poor. However, the Alencar Government has  L
systematic maintenance and make the  started a major state reform program which,
necessary resources available to     when implemented should improve seriously the
SERLA.                               financial situation of situation.
State Project  3.02 (b)   Financial         C                                     State not to amend State Financial
Agreement                                                                         Action Program without agreement of
Guarantor and Bank.
Rio Project   2.01 (a)   Institutional      C                                     Rio to carry out project with due
Agreement                                                                         diligence and efficiency in conformity
with appropriate practices including
environment and to provide as needed
funds, and other resources and facilities
required for part B of the project.
Rio Project   2.01     Resettlement        CD                                    Rio to carry out the Rio Resettlement    Delays occurred in implementation of the
Agreement                                                                         plan in a manner satisfactory to the  resettlement program.
Bank



Table 10 - Page 6 of 7
Original      Revised
Agreement   Section      Covenant       Present     Fulfillment   Fulfillment         Description of Covenant                         Comments
Type         Status        Date           Date
Rio Project   2.02      Procurement         C                                    procurement of goods, works and
Agreement                                                                        services to be financed according to
Schedule 4 of Loan Agreement
Rio Project   2.06 (a)   Facilities         C                                    Rio to operate and maintain (or cause
Agreement               maintenance                                             to) the facilities provided under the
project.
Rio Project   2.06 (b)   Financial          C                                    For purpose of financing operation and
Agreement                                                                        maintenance of the facilities, Rio should
establish, maintain or increase taxes,
user charges to cover at least the
operating and maintenance costs of such
facilities.
Rio Project   2.07      Monitoring          C                                    Rio to furnish quarterly progress reports
Agreement                                                                        to the Bank, CEF and GEROE for Part
B of the project.
Rio Project   3.01 (a)   Accounts/          C                                    Rio to maintain separate records and
Agreement               audits                                                   accounts in respect to Part B of the
Project.
Rio Project   3.01 (b)   Accounts/         CD       June 30 of                   Rio to have above project accounts for    Audit submission performance was poor. 1992
Agreement               audits                      each year                    each fiscal year audited by auditors  and 1993 Audits were received in 3rd quarter of
acceptable to the Bank. Rio to furnish  1994. Audits were reviewed and found to be
the auditor's report not later than six  acceptable.
months after the end of each year.   The 1995 auditor's report was received by the
Bank.



Table 10 - Page 7 of 7
Original      Revised
Agreement   Section      Covenant      Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment         Description of Covenant                       Comments
Tvpe         Status       Date          Date
Rio Project   3.02 (a)   Financial        C                                   Rio to carry out the Rio financial Action  Rio was formally declared bankrupt in 1988
Agreement                                                                      Program in a manner and according to    when the project initiated. The Alencar
timetable satisfactory to the Bank. This  administration started a major recovery. Tax
action program was detailed in a   collection was seriously improved - accumulated
supplemental letter and included: (a) the  tax collection growth since 1988 was 151% in
preparation before October 1, 1988 of    1991 and 88% in 1992. The cadaster updating
an evaluation of the Municipality  and modernization program have been the main
budgeting and accounting systems to  reason for this improvement. Local property tax
identify actual costs of municipal  (IPTU) which was equivalent to 30% of the
services -- the evaluation with    service tax (ISS) increased its share to 90% of
recommendations to improve these   ISS in 1992. On November 30, 1988 the
systems was to be used as the basis for    Municipal assembly voted a 40% increase in real
policy formulation to ensure cost  terms of the solid waste collection tariff for 1989
recovery and budgeting for          and an additional equivalent increase to take
maintenance of infrastructure; (b)  place in 1990. Also the ISS tax exemption was
completion by June 30, 1989 of     reduced significantly.
property tax assessments to improve  In 1993, when the new Municipal Government
IPTU revenues; (c) improvement of the  took place the financial situation of Rio was no   s.,
efficiency of collection of the service    longer so satisfactory. Implementation of the
tax (ISS); and (d) implementation before  updated action plan resulted again in an
March 1, 1989 of tariffs adjustments to   improved financial situation of the Municipality
recover the full cost of operations  - as of December 1995 it had R$990 million in
(including depreciation) of its solid  cash assets equivalent to 54% of its 1995 fiscal
waste collection and disposal.     income, also, in mid-1996, the Municipality of
Rio was able to issue US$125 million in
Eurobond with 3 years maturity which were well
accepted by the financial market.
Rio Project   3.02 (b)   Financial        C                                   Rio not to amend Rio Financial Action   When the new Municipality Government took
Agreement                                                                     Program without agreement of        over in 1993, the financial action plan was
Guarantor and Bank.                updated as a result of a financial evaluation of the
Municipality which was a condition of
disbursement in the 1993 amendment to the Loan
Agreement.
Definitions
C = covenant complied with; CD = complied with after delay; CP  complied with partially; NC = not complied with



58                   Table l  - Page l of I
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of compliance with applicable Operational Manual Statements.
The most relevant are: Operational Directive 8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance); Operational
Directive 4.30 (Involuntary Resettlement); and Operational Directive 1 1.00 (Procurement).



59                         Table 12 - Page I of I
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle      Planned 1/             Revised 1/               Actual
Weeks    US$ '000    Weeks    US$ '000    Weeks    US$ '000
Preparation to appraisal                                                    33.5        48.2
Appraisal                                                                    1.4         2.0
Negotiations through                                                        17.7        30.8
Board approval
Supervision                                                                251.7      480.0
Completion                                                                  12.1       32.5
TOTAL                                                                      316.4      593.5
1/ Not available



60                              Table 13 - Page I of 2
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of    Month/year   Number   Days   Specialized staff skills  Impeme   Developm                  Types of problems
project cycle                  of       in          represented        ntation       ent
persons   field                           status    objectives
Through appraisal
Pre-appraisal   March 1988      7        9     Urban planner,
engineer, other
Appraisal     May 1988          6        7     Same as above
Negotiations through Board Approval
No mission    |           r  _         I _       ( _                 I
Supervision
1.            August 1988       5        12    Urban planner              2          2       Counterpart funds, project management
economist. Fin.                               (SERLA)
Analyst., engineer,
disb.officer
2.            December          I       n.a    Urban planner.         No rating   No rating   Project management(CEF subproject
1988                                                                           review)
3.            February          2        13    Architect, procurement     2           1       Sub-laon approval by CEF
1989
4.            May 1989          1       n.a   Procurement             No rating   No rating   No major issue reported (field review of
procurement documentation)
5.            July! August      5        12    Urb. plan. (TM), econ.,    2          2       Counterpart funds, project management
1989                            fin. anal.., eng., disb.                       (CEF subloan approval), procurement
off.                                          (SERLA), resettlement (Rio Mun. land
ownership)
6.            November/         I       n.a    Urban plan. (TM)          n.a         n.a      Project management (CEF subproject
December                                                                       review, issue of operational manual)
1989
7.            February          2        7     Urban plan. (TM),          2          2       Counterpart funds, project management
1990                             architect                                     (CEF internal procedures)
8.            October 1990      1        2     Urb. plan. (TM)            2           1      Project management (CEF bureaucratic
subproject approval procedures)
9.            Jan/feb 1991      6        9     Urb. plan (TM), econ.,     2          2        Project management (inadequate control of
fin. anal.., eng.., arch.                     drainage works contracts by SERLA, CEF
and GEROE, CEF bureaucratic procedures
(delaying Petropolis components)



61
Table 13 - Page 2 of 2
Performance rating
Stage of    Month/year   Number   Days   Specialized staff skills  Impeme   Developm                  Types of problems
project cycle                  of       in          represented        ntation      ent
persons   field                           status    objectives
10.           April 1991       4         5     Eco., Fin.anal.., eng.     2          2       Project management (CEF bureaucratic
procedures), uneven progress of TA and
studies
11.           November         4         8     Urb. plan. (TM), econ.,    3          2       Counterpart funds, project management
1991                             eng.                                          (CEF and state bureaucratic procedures),
work contracts execution (drainage)
12.           February         4         7     Urb. plan., econ., eng.    3          2       Counterpart funds, project management
1992                                                                           (CEF subproject approval)
13.           September        2         3     Urb. plan. (TM), eng.      3          2       Counterpart funds, works contract
1992                                                                           implementation, Project management (CEF
subproject approval).
14.           February          7        9     Urb. plan. (TM), eng.,     2          1       Resettlement, Project coordination
1993                            resettlement, Inst. dev.,                      (GEROE- contrats plans)
Env. educ.
15.           September         5        4     Urb plan. (TM), Inst.      2          2       Audit reports (State and Rio Munic.),
1993                             dev., Eng., Env. Educ.                        resettlement, project coordination (GEROE
and Rio Munic.)
16.           March 1994       4         4     Urb. plan. (TM), eng.,     2          2       Resettlement,audit report (Munic. of Rio)
eco.
17.          July 1994          1        3     Urban plan. (TM)          U           S       Audit (of SOEs under drainage component),
procurement (env. education)
18.          November          2        13    Urb. plan. (TM), eng.       S          S       Resettlement
1994
19.           February          5        5     Div. chief, urb. plan.     S          S       Resettlement
1995                            (TM), op. off., eng.
20.           June 1995         2        6     Op. off., eng.             S          S       No major issue reported
Completion
Completion    November          3        2   1 Op. off., eco., eng..
1995
Note: the above list does not include some short additional visits from Bank staff members and consultants
made either from the Bank office in Brasilia or at the opportunity of other Bank missions.



62                                                Annex 1 - page 1 of 2
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975- BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Annex I - Resettlement Component
tvpe             Housesilots Distributed as of 5130196 for
State/Area                       Cause       No. of Lots                                                                     Physical
Houses Lots  Urbanization   Drainage   Risk Areas      Area wI       Progress
Homeless   As of 5131196
State
Bento Ribeiro Dantas       Drainage             541      541                           541                                    100%
Barro Vermelho II          Drainage and Risk    750      750                           589         161                        100%
Barro Vermelho II          Drainage and Risk    275      275                           111         150                         99%
Barro Vermelho I           Risk                 475      475                                       473                         93%
Bota                        Drainage            290      290                           290                                    100%
Compo do Amenca             Drainage and Risk   425      425                           111                                     80%
Missoes (SERLA)             Drainage            300      300                           300                                    100%
Subtotal State                   3056     3056                          1942         784
Municipality of Petropolis 1/
Vila Sao Jose               Urb. and Homeless    89                        89                                     89           100%
Alto Independencia          Urb. and Homeless    45                        45                                     45          100%
Contorno I                  Urb. and Homeless    66                        66                                     66          100%
Vila Constancia             Urb. and Homeless    286                       286                                   286           100%
Alto America                Urb. and Homeless    45                        45                                     45          100%
Sargento Boening                                144                        144                                                 95%
Carangola I                                     156                        156                                                 89%
Carangoia II                                    202                        202                                                 59%
Subtotal Petropolis                   1033                      1033                                   531
Municipality of Rio 21
Vila Nova Cruzado           Homeless            571              571                                             571          100%
Pavuna                     Homeless             402             402                                              402          100%
Moca Bonita                Homeless             268             268                                              268          100%
Manguinhos II              Homeless             455             455                                              455          100%
Inhoaiba                   Homeless              76              76                                              76           100%
Nova Cidade                Urb. and CEDAE       3000            300       2700                                  3000          100%
Roquete Pinto               Risk                372      372                                       266                         93%
Subtotal Rio                    5144     372   2072       2700                     266          4772
Total Proiect                           9233    3428  2072         3733         1942        1050         5303
Notes
1/ In Petropolis no lots have been distributed. In fact, works consisted in the urbanization of existing populated areas where homeless
families whose homes were destroyed during the floods and landslides moved. These services consisted of drainage, grading, water supply,
slope stabilization, sewage treatment and paved roads.
21 The Municipality of Rio, not only distributed urbanized lots to homeless families as part of the project, but assisted to the construction of
most houses with its own funds.
In addition, as part of the Project, the Municipality of Rio, constructed the sewerage system of the Dona Marta favela with a total population
of about 7000 families.
3/ In Nova Cidade the Municipality of Rio urbanized an existing populated area with about 2,700 lots and built 300 urbanized lots for the
necessary resettlement of families to allow CEDAE to implementation potable water system.



63                           Annex 1- Page 2 of 2
RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT (LOAN 2975-BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Annex 1 - Resettlement Component
Cost Summary
(US$ Million)
Lots                        Cost
Appraisal Actual  Appraisal  Actual     of which to be
estimates         Estimates               completed
As of 12/31/95
State                                       3056
Other Municipalities                        1033
Total financed through State       4000     4089               28.4           2.0
Municipality of Rio                7000     5144               21.0           0.6
Total                              11000    9233      34.2     49.4           2.6



64
BRAZIL- RIO FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT
Main Factors Causing Delays During Project Implementation           Annex 2 - page 1 of 1
Factors of Delay                1989        1990       1991         1992        1993        1994        1995
A- Counterpart Funds
1. Lack of CEF funds
(Aug. 90: Bank approved Special Assistance Program)
2. CEF subloan approval
procedures (centralization, lack
of existing credit lines)
(March 1993: Bank agreed to modify disbursement percentages and categories to
compensate for CEF inability to fund certain credit lines; and state agrees to
increase its share of financing-- Mid 1993: decentralization of project authority to
GERSAIRJ)
3. State delay in signing March
1993 amendment
4. State default on debt with CEF                                          -
(essentially resolved when debt restructuring agreement is reached
between CEF and state government on December 12, 1991)
B- Execution of Drainage Works Contracts
1. Cancellation of bid invitation
by Tribunal de Contas
(TC canceled bid invitation on April 11, invitation to prequalify re-issued June 30).
2. From technical audit, to
redesign of component, to
agreement with contractors and
resumption of works
C- Audit Reports
Municipality of Rio audit report
for FY92
(New commitments by CEF suspended early March,
disbursements suspended between July and August 1).
0- Replenishment Special Account
Early Bank recovery of SA
(Bank starts recovering SA in Dec. 93; zero balance reached Aug. 94; SA
replenished to USS5 in Sep. 94; and to USSIO in Feb. 95- caused slow-down of
drainage component).
E- Resettlement
Delays in resettlement causing
delays in some phases of
drainage works
Though delays affected all drainage works throughout implementation, delays were
more for drainage of Rio Pavuna (Lots 3 and 4). Resettlement and works not
completed at project closing date.



APPEND IXA
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1. HISTORICAL BACKGROUND OF THE PROJECT
The Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region is extremely vulnerable to disasters
caused by heavy rainfall.
The natural environmental condflons of the region make it highly susceptible
to erosion on the hillsides and to flooding along river banks. The hot humid
tropical climate, the topography with steeply sloping hills adjacent to open plains,
and the proximity of the coastline which makes the region subject to tidal effects
and torrential squalls, are all factors which contnibute to the problem.
In addition to these natural environmental hazards, rapid and uncontrolled
urban growth in the region over the last 50 years has made the effet of
landslides and flooding increasingly catastrophic.
Wth a population of 9.8 million, (in 1991) the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan
Region is made up of 17 municipalities, and covers an area of 5,737.8 square
kilometers. In the 1950s the rate of urban growth in the region was so great that
by 1960 the Metropolitan Region accounted for 73% of the population of the State
of Rio de Janeiro. Since that time, despite lower rates of population growth, the
proportion of the State's population living in the Metropolitan area has risen to
78% in 1970, and to 81% by 1990.
Rapid urban growth, without the requisite planning and aggravated by the
lack of a an effective housing policy, led to the intensified occupation of the
hillsides and along the banks of rivers and canals, this pattem of land use being
practically the only option open to the low-income population. This disordedy
occupation of the land, combined with a lack of basic infrastructure, resulted in the
5.utAW0     $wy. . ........



APPENDIX A
emergence of new densely populated nsk areas without minimum living
conditions.
The increased dumping of solid wastes into the nvers and the volume of silt
washed down by the rains from the deforested and eroded hillsides, further
aggravated the effects of heavy rainfall. The ineffectiveness of sewage collection
and absence of treatment systems has contributed to the pollution of
watercourses, worsening the effects of flooding and raising the specter of
epidemics of water-born diseases.
This was the urban context when the rains of February 1988 afflicted the City
of Rio de Janeiro and the towns of Duque de Caxias, Nova lguaqu, Nilopolis, Sao
Joao do Meriti and Mage in the surrounding lowlands (Baixada Fluminense), and
the town of Petr6polis in the mountains.
The Rio Reconstruction Project (Projeto Reconstrugo Rio) was a
response to the damages caused by those floods, which took a toll of 300 people
dead, 735 injured, 22,590 homeless, and the worst epidemic of leptospirosis ever
experienced in the State, not to mention the financial damages.
The disaster rallied Brazilian society and the intemational community and led
pooling of efforts by local authorities under the leadership of the State
Government, to obtain funding from the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development - IBRD, for an emergency project aimed at reconstruction and the
prevention of future disasters.
In the City of Rio de Janeiro, besides the landslides, the wastes washed down
from the hillsides destroyed a large portion of the city's streets and the drainage
system. In the Baixada Fluminense, insufficient drainage and the silting up of
rivers and canals, aggravated by the accumulation of solid wastes, led to the
flooding of densely populated areas. In Petr6polis, a town in the mountains,
landslides and flooding also occurred. The disaster directly affected more than 3.5
million people in the Metropolitan Region, particularly the Baixada Fluminense.
&en ...............       , , , o,fve ,S,m,m,a,y...... . .... .



APPENDIX A
In order to carrying out immediate interventions in the areas most severely
afflicted by the disaster, the State Government and the Mayors' Offices of Rio de
Janeiro and the adjacent municipalities began to coordinate activities, and, after a
relatively short time, they had come up with a preliminary model of what was to
become the Rio Flood Reconstruction and Prevention Project, also known as the
Rio Reconstruction Project.
In view of the emergency nature of the project, approval by the World Bank
was obtained in a very short period of time. The Project included actions for
reconstruction and prevention of future disasters, made feasible by the granting of
a loan covering approximately 50% of the total cost, initially estimated as being
US$ 396 million. Financing agreed upon with IBRD amounted to US$ 175 million,
of which US$ 125 million for the State Government and US$ 50 million for the
Municipality of the City of Rio de Janeiro.
To cover the national counterpart (roughly 50% of total cost, in accordance
with IBRD norms) the State and Municipal administrations of Rio de Janeiro, in
view of the financial difficulties they were experiencing, sought assistance from the
Federal Govemment, which delegated responsibility for financing the national
counterpart, and for passing through World Bank funding to the State and
Municipality, to Caixa Econ6mica Federal - CEF.
Negotiations between IBRD, the State Government, the Municipality of Rio de
Janeiro, and CEF, were conducted throughout 1988, and simultaneously the
Project took form as its details were discussed with the various protagonists
involved. On September 29, 1988, Loan Agreement 2975 BR was signed, thus
making it possible to issue the first tender documents before the end of 1988.
The initial budget forecast for the Project amounted to US$ 393.61 million,
with the contribution of IBRD accounting for 44.5%, CEF, 48.3%, and those of the
State and Municipality of Rio de Janeiro, together for 7.2%.
Ex",,,vm, SImma'-



APPENDIX A
For those parts of the Project under the responsibility of the State
Government, the initial budget amounted to US$ 298.25 million, shared as
follows: IBRD - US$ 125.05 million; CEF - US$ 152.69 million; the State
Govemment - US$ 20.51 million. For the portion of the Project under the
responsibility of the Municipal Govemment of Rio, the initial forecast amounted to
US$ 95.36 million, of which US$ 49.95 million were from the World Bank; US$
37.41 million from CEF; and US$ 8.00 million from the Municipality.
With this initial funding arrangement, the Rio Reconstruction Project financed
works, services and various actions under the responsibility of the State
Government - Part A; of the Municipal Govemment of Rio de Janeiro, - Part B;
and of other Municipal Governments in the Metropolitan Region under the
supervision of the State Govemment - Part C.
The overall objectives of the Rio Reconstruction Project included the
execution, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the basic infrastructure in the
Project area, which had been damaged by the rains of February 1988; the
implementation of preventative measures of a physical and institutional nature to
ensure against the effects of future heavy rains and flooding; technical assistance
services for the State and Municipal Governments of Rio de Janeiro, for the
development of a program for dealing with emergencies and natural disasters.
The various sectoral actions included within the overall scope of the Project
were grouped into Components according to the nature of their use, as is
described later in this document. As a consequence of the diversity of these
actions, the implementation of the Rio Reconstruction Projed required the
participation of a number of executing agencies, at the State Government level, as
well as at the level of the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro and other Municipalities.
Efficient management of the Project, especially with regard to planning and
coordination, were considered essential to its success.
E"'" x ''o-u-|-tWe Sumai                                           iv-  T0--  ,tk  



APPENDIX A
It should be noted that, when the Rio Reconstruction Project was launched, in
1988, the administrative structure of the State of Rio was recognized as
excessively complex and rigid. Thus for the execution of a program of an
emergency nature, requiring streamlined procedures for the management and
control of resources, the Grupo Executivo para Recuperagao e Obras de
Emergencia - GEROE (Executive Group for Reconstruction and Emergency
Works) was established, directly subordinated to the Govemor's Office. Besides
having its own technical and administrative staff, GEROE relied on the services of
a private consulting firm for the overall coordination of Parts A and C of the
Project.
With regard to the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro, it should be noted that when
the Loan Agreement was signed (in 1988) the Mayor had formally declared that
the city was bankrupt, and announced a plan for its financial recovery. In 1989 a
new Mayor took office and proceeded to put the plan into effect. The World Bank
encouraged and supported this initiative, and financed a new property cadaster
for the city, including a revaluation of all properties.
With the recovery of the City's financial health, with a view to obtaining
investments from abroad, the Mayor's Office established the Assessoria de
Captagao de Recursos Externos - F/ACR (Advisory Office for Attracting Foreign
Resources), charged with conducting negotiations with national and intemational
financing agencies. Like GEROE, F/ACR then coordinated all activities related to
the Rio Reconstruction Project within the scope of the Municipality of Rio de
Janeiro - Part B of the Project.
Early on in Project execution, the Municipal Governments of the Baixada
Fluminense and of Petr6polis experienced difficulties in meeting Project
requirements owing to weaknesses in their administrative structures. In Petr6polis
these problems were overcome with the establishment of a technical group,
Programa  de  Reconstru,co  de  Petr6polis  - PROGREP  (Petr6polis
,xu,iv S.-:mmay--                                                    v



APPENDIX A
Reconstruction Program), affached to the Municipal Planning Coordination. In the
other municipalities these difficulties were resolved through GEROE coordination.
Caixa Economica Federal - CEF, had a significant role as the main Brazilian
financing agency and also as the agency responsible for the transfer of funds. As
such, its role included analysis and approval of projects, monitoring of execution of
works and services, disbursement of funds and evaluation of the overall progress
of the Project.
Furthermore, the Worid Bank monitored, supervised and controlled the
Project throughout its execution. In this context, the role of the supervision and
evaluation missions, during which various aspects of the implementation process
were discussed and defined, deserves special mention.
Another aspect worth highlighting is the fact that, during the period of the
Loan Agreement, certain conditions which had been previously agreed upon were
altered, which led to the signing of contractual amendments relating to:
postponement of the closing date of the Project; adjustments to the financial
participation of the various protagonists; review of the scope and budget for each
component; and reallocation of resources among components.
2. QUANTITATIVE ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT
The Rio Reconstruction Project was funded with World Bank and Caixa
Econ6mica Federal - CEF resources, complemented by resources of the State
and Municipality of Rio de Janeiro. CEF contributed the major portion of resources
requirements under the Agreement, through its financing programs using
resources from the Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servico - FGTS (Insurance
for Time of Service Fund).
As a consequence of the above-mentioned alterations, changes were made
throughout Project execution in terms of the amounts originally foreseen, both
Ex.....    Sumary.



APPENDIX A
with regard to the total cost of the Project, and also by Component and by source
of funding.
Thus, up until December 1995, resources in the order of US$ 409.3 million
were foreseen, of which IBRD was to participate with 41%, CEF with 46%, the
Govemment of the State of Rio de Janeiro with 11%, and the Municipal
Govemment of Rio de Janeiro with 2%. Up until the aforementioned date, US$
382.69 million had been invested in the Project, and of these, IBRD has
participated with 43.73%o, CEF with 46.48%, and the State and Municipal
Govemments of Rio de Janeiro jointly with 9.79%.
In Parts A and C of the Project, under the responsibility of the State
Govemment, US$ 302.03 million were invested, from the following sources: IBRD
- US$ 124.85 million; CEF - US$ 145.15 million; and the State Govemment - US$
32.03 million. In Part B of the Project, under the responsibility of the Municipality of
Rio de Janeiro, US$ 80.66 million were invested, of which US$ 42.50 million from
IBRD; US$ 32.72 million from CEF; and US$ 5.44 million from the Municipal
Govemment.
The various sectoral actions, organized into Components, according to their
purpose were carried out as follows:
* Component A.01 - Roads and Bridges - The objective of this Component
was the repair of damages caused to the main access routes into the State. To
this end, repair and reconstruction work was carried out on 10 bridges;
rehabilitation of paving and of drainage systems on 10 streets or highways; the
reinforcement of steep slopes at several locations along 7 highways or
avenues in the form of anchored retaining walls, gabions, facing with shotcrete
and planting vegetation cover.
* Component A.02 - Drainage - The objective of this Component was to
promote flood control through dredging operations carried out in 6 river basins:
Canal do Cunha, Sarapui, Pavuna/Meriti, lguacu/Bota, Inhomirim/Estrela, and
Executive Summary                        - -                        vii



APPENDIX A
Valao Guanabara. This involved dredging along linear stretches over 62,770
meters; channeling 32,226 meters of rivers and canals; the building of 2 dams
to control floodwater on the Sarapui and Pavuna rivers; the building of 2,800
meters of storm drains; the building and rehabilitation of 11 bridges, besides
dozens of pedestrian walkways and crossings; the building and rehabilitation of
dikes and the system of floodgates; relocation of 2,570 families; the building
and rehabilitation of housing units; besides other small and medium-scale
drainage and related civil engineenng works which included: the cleaning of
ditches; containment of riverbanks; building and repair of sewage and drainage
networks, repairing road surfaces and urban rehabilitation; the building of
avenues alongside the canals; and the building of community centers.
Component A.03 - Sewerage - Sewage collection and treatment facilities are
virtually non-existent in the Baixada Fluminense and, as a consequence,
resources available for this Component were concentrated on the Gramacho
System, consisting of one sedimentation pond, three pumping stations, 7.7
kilometers of sewage mains; 67.3 kilometers of collection network and 11,000
household connections.
C Component A.04 - Solid Waste - The objective of this Component was the
establishment of a system for collection and disposal of household and hospital
waste in three municipalities of the Baixada Fluminense: Queimados, Belford
Roxo and Nova Iguagu. Investments were carried out in the building of three
recycling and composting plants; 3 dumps, the landfills and operation of 3
incinerators for hospital wastes, 20 tractors with trailers, 3 bulldozers, 3
excavators, 5 mechanical shovels, 4 waste collection and compacting trucks,
and I forklift.
* Component A.05 - Reforestation - Through this Component reforestation
was carried out 614 hectares on 12 hillsides in the City of Rio de Janeiro and
on over 131 hectares of land in the Municipality of Nova Iguagu where
.x  . .utive   S..                                 ., y ...VI..II.,..,..    ...........,........  ..#.00.,..t. 0ff.f.j  .



APPENDIX A
environmental rehabilitation was deemed necessary or where hillsides were
occupied by communities living in precanous housing.
Component A.06 - Serviced Sites - Included in this Component was the
provision of housing to receive those populations which resided on the banks of
the rivers where large-scale dredging was camed out (Component A.02) and
other areas of high risk; and also the rehabilitation of areas occupied by those
who lost their homes in the Municipality of Petr6polis. For resettlement of
populations living on river banks and in other high risk areas, 4 housing
complexes were built, comprising a total of 2,756 units. The housing units were
provided with the necessary infrastructure, including water supply, drains,
power, drainage and paved roads. In addition to basic infrastructure services,
these complexes were provided with community equipment and leisure areas,
taking into account the requests of the communities. In the town of Petr6polis, 8
complexes offering plots and providing urban facilities such as water supply,
drains, drainage and paved roads were built to the benefit of 1,031 families.
e Component A.07 - Renewal of Public Installations - Through this
Component, 2 water mains were restored in the Municipality of Petr6polis over
a 5,040 meters stretch. The execution of these works made it possible to
improve the water supply system for the entire Municipality.
* Component A.08 - Civil Defense - The objective of this Component was to
re-equip the civil defense system of the State of Rio de Janeiro through the
acquisition of 12 fire-fighting vehicles, 9 search and rescue vehicles and 2 self-
propelled winches.
* Component A.09 - Technical Assistance - The objective of this Component
was the provision of technical assistance services to various agencies of the
State Government, in accordance with the nature of their operations. Such
services included the preparation of projects and the supervision of the various
Components, and also the conducting of audits and the preparation of various
Exuive Smmar -x



APPENDIX A
plans and studies, altogether requifing 26 service contracts. Among the studies
and plans carried out the following stand out: the Master Plan for Water
Resources of the Iguacu River Basin; the Digital and Conventional Mapping of
the State of Rio de Janeiro, the Plan for the Protection of Steeps Slopes, the
Study on Municipal Financial Administration; and the Master Plan for the
Management of Solid Waste.
* Component A.10 - Project Administration - This Component included the
provision of personnel, equipment and physical installations for the
management and supervision of Project execution. Al spending for these
purposes was done by the State out of its own resources.
 Component B.01 - Roads and Bridges - The objective of this Component
was to repair damages to roads and canals in the City of Rio de Janeiro. The
work was carnied out through of 19 work contracts, covering construction and
rehabilitation of drainage and paving of various roads, construction of storm
drains, and the repair to canals and gutters.
* Component B.02 - Drainage - The investments made under this Component
aimed at flood control in the City of Rio de Janeiro, through the construction of
channels along stretches of 5 rivers in the Suburban area of the City, and on a
stretch of the river Carioca, located in the South Zone.
* Component B.03 - Slope Stabilization - The objective of this Component
was to restore the steep slopes in Rio de Janeiro. To this end, 152 contracts
were signed for the execution of engineering works of various types, depending
upon the extent of the interventions, including anchored retaining walls;
reinforced concrete walls, cyclopean concrete and gabion walls; anchored
concrete structures; shotcrete; drainage channels and decking.
* Component B.04 - Serviced Sites - Through this Component 6 complexes
offenng serviced lots were constructed, comprising 4,772 lots, provided with
water supply, electric power, sewage collection, drainage and paved roads.
Executiv   Summaryf-|-;--S,-}-X--}---} }}x



APPENDIX A
Furthermore, a sewage system was installed in a slum area (Favela do Morro
Dona Marta) and a housing complex with 372 units was built, where
foundations were also laid for an additional 258 units, with all the necessary
infrastructure (Complexo Residencial da Mare - Roquete Pinto). Of the six
housing estates offering urban lots, 5 were developed on unutilized land,
allocated for the resettlement of populations made homeless by the floods. The
last of these (Nova Cidade) included the provision of urban infrastructure to a
large area which had been occupied spontaneously by slum dwellers and
those made homeless by the floods. The remaining investments benefited a
population of roughly 7,000 (in the Favela Dona Marta alone, more than 1,350
registered households) and poor communities living in shacks above the
swamp (palafitas), or in temporary shelters provided by the Municipality of Rio
de Janeiro (as occurred in the case of the Complexo da Mare - Roquete Pinto,
which houses 630 families).
* Component B.05 - Renewal of Public Buildings - Under this Component,
aimed at the renewal/reconstruction of public buildings, only one school in the
Municipality of Rio de Janeiro was rebuilt. All other works initially contemplated
under this Component were carried out by the Municipality using its own funds.
C Component B.06 - Technical Assistance - The objective of this Component
was the provision of technical assistance services to the Municipality of Rio de
Janeiro. Such services included the supervision of drainage works, the
preparation of a new property cadaster in the Municipality, 9 studies aimed at
the integration of public policies in the Metropolitan Region, in addition to audits,
and management of Part B of the Project.
C Component C.01 - Slope Stabilization - The aim of this Component was to
secure steep slopes in the Municipality of Petr6polis, where work was carried
out through 25 contracts, covering 500 work sites and providing benefit to
various neighborhoods. The interventions carried out used a variety
approaches, most of which were of great simplicity, with a view to benefiting the
xuivSmm:---ry                                                    xi



APPENDIX A
greatest possible number of people with resources available for this
Component. Thus, besides the use of anchored retaining walls, gabions,
shotcrete, etc., slopes were also stabilized by means of the re-vegetation,
applying cement soils and other non-conventional systems.
Component C.02 - Renewal of Public Buildings - Through this Component
the renewal of only one school was carried out in the Municipality of Nil6polis, in
the Baixada Fluminense.
3. EVALUATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The Rio Reconstruction Project was initially conceived to address an
emergency situation. Thus, despite its complexity, various aspects relating to
inter-sectoral relations, to management and institutional coordination were not
initially contemplated. The primary interest was to initiate work on measures to
mitigate the dramatic effects of flooding and landslides.
A Project of such scope and complexity, with the participation of so many
institutional protagonists (approximately 22 distinct govemment agencies and
entities were involved), requires adequate management, both from the technical
standpoint (execution of the works and services) and from the organizational point
of view (institutional coordination, mobilization of financial and management
resources).
In this regard, the association of multilateral (World Bank), federal (CEF) and
local (State and Municipal) interests has been extremely complex from the policy
and administrative point of view, even though it is possible to point to many
positive aspects which contributed to the success of the Rio Reconstruction
Project.
The World Bank, besides supplying financial resources, provided its
experience in the monitoring of urban infrastructure projects. When negotiating
ecut -i   - S -mm a                                              . . ..i.....



APPENDIX A
the Loan Agreement for the implementation of the Project, the Bank sought to
ensure the full legal, institutional and financial framework necessary for the
execution of the work and services. Furthermore, detailed planning was
requested, especially in areas later-on identified as bottlenecks. This concern for
the coordination and dissemination of procedures was another distinctive
characteristic of Project monitoring, as carried out by IBRD.
As a consequence of the World Bank's demands, administrative procedures
were streamlined, and information flows were computerized, which at the same
time assisted in recording the memory of the Project (something which is often
lacking in Brazil).
With regard to the role of Caixa Econ6mica Federal - CEF, it should be noted
that its participation in the Project started without any prior planning for its role as
co-financier, borrower and agent for the transfer of IBRD funding to the State and
Municipality of Rio de Janeiro. Though it is true that, as the successor of Banco
Nacional da Habitacao - BNH (National Housing Bank), CEF was already carrying
out operations with World Bank funding in sectoral sanitation and urban
development programs, however, it had only limited experience in programs of
this scope and complexity, involving so many protagonists.
In the initial phase of the Rio Reconstruction Project, issues such as
unavailability of funds and the need to adapt loan operations to FGTS rules
contributed to delay disbursements, thus affecting the progress of the Project. On
the other hand, CEF had no streamlined operational system for disbursement of
resources, which should have been based upon arrangements with Banco
Central (Central Bank) with regard to exchange operations and other measures.
Furthermore, there was no precedent for the monitoring of activities in areas in
which CEF had no prior experience, such as reforestation, solid waste
management and civil defense.
:xecu ve  S.rnma,y  ... :.:,.:i:-::i:'-i''-  -''   . .   .........  -



APPENDIX A
Despite these difficulties, while CEF was facing difficulty in obtaining
resources, an experienced technical team and support staff was assembled within
CEF Regional Office in Rio de Janeiro, carry out the analysis of the financial and
economic aspects of the projects, the contracting and monitoring of works and all
the activities foreseen within the scope of the Project. The World Bank, for its part,
expressed interest in working with an efficient Federal Agency capable of serving
as financial intermediary in its Loan Agreements. In this respect, CEF
representation in Rio de Janeiro became the model for improving operational
procedures for the institution as a whole.
With respect to the management of the Project at the level of the executing
agencies in the State and Municipalities, planning and coordination were essential
to the success of the Project, and these elements required strengthening during
the course of Project implementation. In the case of the State Government,
especially, it proved necessary to provide systematic support to the technical
teams of the agencies involved, as these proved to be ineffective to handle the
scope and complexity of the tasks falling under their responsibility. To overcome
these difficulties, the State resorted to contracted specialists.
This was not the case with respect to the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro, whose
executing agencies - some of which had a long established tradition - proved fully
capable of conducting the works and services for which they had been made
responsible.
In summary, the performance of GEROE at the level of the State Government, of
F/ACR at the level of the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro, and of PROGREP in the
Municipality of Petr6polis were of fundamental importance in the success of the Rio
Reconstruction Project, since they were in charge of the definition of priorties,
organization of tenders, coordination, and execution of works and services under the
Project.
Exec    Summay                                                        x iv



APPENDIX A
Another aspect worth mentioning is the influence of the popular movements
in the Baixada Fluminense on the definition and planning of the Rio
Reconstruction Project, and their tenacity undoubtedly contributed to the depth
and scope of the interventions carried out by the Project in that region.
The original concept of the Project was of an emergency nature. However,
during implementation, difficulties arose which led to delays, and these in turn led
to changes in approach, to the point that, over time, the Project began to take on
a much broader and multi-sectoral character. It was for this reason that, in 1993,
an Amendment to the Loan Agreement was signed, whereby the Rio
Reconstruction Project ceased to be regarded as an emergency project and
began to be perceived as being the first effective experiment in dealing, with the
critical problems of the urban environment of the Metropolitan Region of Rio de
Janeiro.
The Rio Reconstruction Project was, effectively, the first large-scale
intervention in the Metropolitan Region which sought to integrate actions with a
view to achieving far-reaching physical and social results. Among the actions
carried out under the Project, those relating to drainage, resettlement of
populations, and the reinforcement of slopes deserve special mention.
Studies carried out in the context of the lguacu Project show that there has
been a reduction in areas susceptible to flooding in the Baixada Fluminense as a
consequence of drainage works carried out under the Project, and that rains of
similar intensity would now affect 40% less of the area previously afflicted. This
proportion is also valid in terms of the number of lives which would be lost, the
incidence of water-born diseases, the number of working days lost, and losses in
terms of production and circulation of goods. Also among the positive effects of
the Project, are the increase in property values for homes which had previously
been susceptible to flooding, and the resumption of investment by home owners
and others in the market
Executive Summarr                                                    xv



APPENDIX A
Among the most positive effects of the Project, the resefflement program has
resulted in an unquestionable improvement in the quality of life of the resettled
families, not only because of improvements in the standard of their housing but
also as a consequence of criteria adopted for family relocation. An effort was
made to keep them as near as possible to their oniginal homes, to preserve their
neighborhood relationships and to continue to provide the assistance and support
which was given to them at the time of the inventory and during the move to their
new homes.
Surveys carried out so far by the State Govemment and by the Municipality of
Rio de Janeiro of the resettled families have recorded average rates of
satisfaction of 70% among the families relocated by the State, and of 85% among
families relocated by the Municipality. It should be observed that, while living in
their former dwellings these people were doomed periodically to loose all of their
meager savings and to fafl victim to epidemics of water born diseases, in a
perverse process of chronic impovenshment, and disincentive to the exercise of
citizenship.
As a consequence of improvement in the quality of life of these families, the
cycle of chronic impoverishment has been abruptly broken, making it possible for
them now to accumulate modest savings and apply them to improve their material
condition, thus generating jobs and potential consumers, and consequently
bringing an inflow of private investment into the region.
It has been proved that the local population reacts immediately to
investments made with work and creativity. People who live in the new homes,
built on more valuable land, begin to expand their houses, while businesses invest
in construction and renewal. Infrastructure thus made available to the population
has increased the value of their property, has raised the levels of tax revenue
collected by the Municipalities, and has opened up a new phase of economic and
social development in the regions benefited.
Executive.$ur.. . ..     ......



APPENDIX A
A similar reaction has been noticed among populations affected by slope
stabilization works, especially after the change in focus from an emergency to a
preventative approach. The benefit resulting from these actions can be assessed in
terms of a marked reduction in the number of accidents in the hillsides, both in the
Municipality of Rio de Janeiro and in Petropolis, after Project works were
implemented.
It is true that much remains to be done, to effectively reduce the seriousness
of the effects rainstorms in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region, and that this
will continue to be at great expense, given the way problems have been allowed
to accumulate over recent decades. However, it is estimated that positive results
of the measures carried out under the Project have had a highly positive impact
on social, sanitary, and environmental conditions in the Rio de Janeiro
Metropolitan Region.
Such results are due to the convergence of interest of the various
protagonists involved in the Project, which led to the consolidation of the political
will to intervene to effect changes in the urban environment. From the political
viewpoint, it is no coincidence that the Project received priority in three
consecutive State and Municipal administrations.
Furthermore, implementation of the Project has led to an increase in
interventions carried out to improve the urban environment, for example, the
Projeto de Despoluiq5o da Bafa de Guanabara (Project for Cleaning up of the
Guanabara Bay) and the Programa de UrbanizaXo de Assentamentos
Populares - PROAP-RIO (Program for Urban Renewal of Popular Settlements),
which encompasses the Slum Neighborhoods and Legalization of Irregular
Estates Programs, all of which are receiving funding from the Inter-American
Development Bank - IDB, not to mention other projects which are currently under
negotiation by the State Government and Municipality of Rio de Janeiro with IBRD
and IDB.



APPENDIX A
In summary, given the chronic shortages and precariousness of land use in
the Metropolitan Region, the greatest impact of the Rio Reconstruction Project at
the regional level has been in terms of management and planning. Given its
scope and complexity, the execution of the Project has resulted in the
improvement of public agencies and has contributed to better performance in
planning and management activities related to the urban environment.
Financial management, at the level of the State and Municipal Governments
is, however, still deficient Although the guarantee of resources for program
implementation depend, to a great extent, upon the political will of decision
makers, the availability and regularity of these resources depend on an efficient
public administration. Considering that the components of the Project were divided
into as many financing packages as groups of works or services to be contracted,
applicable rules often excessively slowed down the process of committing and
disbursing counterpart funds from the State and Municipal Governments of Rio de
Janeiro.
With regard to the allocation of resources by CEF, it should be noted that its
high level of participation in the financing of the Project, although it made Project
approval feasible, should have been made operational in ways permitting efficient
Project execution. At certain times, budgetary difficulties related to CEF's
resources for urban development - the FGTS - thus compromised the progress of
the Project.
In conclusion, it can be stated that the Rio Reconstruction Project, in terms of
planning, was a leaming process for all protagonists. For the local governments,
which had had no prior experience with multilateral agencies, it represented an
altemative source of funding to be considered in their future planning activities.
The success achieved is leading to signing of further agreements, providing
continuity for actions carried out so far. Furthermore, the Project was a learning
experience in terms of articulation between the State Govemment and local
Municipal Govemments, and the opening-up of channels for popular participation.
* -glve .Sur.,y                                                     i ...



APPENDIX A
For CEF, it meant a broadening of its purely financial role to that of a more
effective form of action, as the agent orienting the actions of the various other
protagonists, seeking to adapt World Bank policies and the Federal Govemment
urban development programs to local priorities, and providing general
coordination.
Finally, in light of the difficulties and failures encountered throughout
implementation of the Project, it seems appropniate to make the following
recommendations:
* new intemational agreements, to be negotiated by CEF, should make
available the full amount of the resources required, so as to eliminate
delays in their disbursement;
* local governments should assign expenditures resulting from projects
which are the object of financing agreements into their multi-annual plans,
and annually issue commitment requests covering the execution of works,
from the time of the initial memorandum until the end of the final fiscal year;
 relations between public agencies and university research centers should
be strengthened, with a view to promoting an exchange of knowledge on
urban infrastructure technologies and environmental management;
* the implementation of the Plano de Manutengao das Calhas dos Rios
(Plan for the Maintenance of River Courses), drawn up by SERLA, for the
maintenance of dredging services executed within the scope of the Project,
should be made feasible by the State;
* populations living in areas affected by Project works should be the object
of environmental education programs, aimed at preserving the benefits
gained through actions carried out so far, or yet to be carried out;
* new projects to be implemented should forecast:
Executive S.m...e.....



APPENDIX A
a) a participation approach in order to accomplish mobilization of the
beneficiary community through its representative associations from
the project design; and
b) a explicit participation of beneflciary municipalities when the projects
are under state responsibility.
Exe utiv Slmmary                                                        xx



IBRD 20959
|               44              ~~~~~~~B R A Z I L                                                                                                                        5       ,                     .                  - 
METROPOLITAN AREA OF RIO DE JANEIRO                                                                                                                         5 Q2--
FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION AND PREVENTION PROJECT                                                                                                                     N1Y                                            I
[ 22                                                                                                          ,, ",/   $                                                                               22O1 /
POIULA KON DEN4S TY                             BUILT UP AREAS                                                                                                                             |                     B  R A  Z  I L
,PERSONS PFE SQIR RI
KILOMETER N 1985            C           a    _ PROJECT MUNIC PAL BOUNDA/E
15,000 - 6,000       E-R   METROPOL TAN BOIUPDARTI
m   4,000  ~8,000                -          MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES'                                                                                                                                                      0 BRASIL A
1,oOc - 4,A 0,    STATE BOUNDARIES
INTERNAT ONAL BOUNDARIES
*ONLY MUNIC PAL TIES FOUND                                                                  _
R~~~~~~~j ~~~~~~W THIN THE MTETROPOL TAN
. 406,000 |- 1980 POPULAT ON                    AREA ARE ME POCED
S-58OSROD  1090 ESTIMATED POPULATON                                                                                                                                                                                             0   soT  1000
_:           ^ %  ~~~~~~~~1990 ElTMATFn POP JIATOtj INS A                                                                                   w.i          ~.2|kKILOMETERS
F.7   PERCENT OF TOTAL STAIE POPUL-TI ON                                                                                                                                                                        '- .  ,MTES
03.463  - PERSONS PER SQUARE K LOMETER IN 1985
-- v 1 ' < v - R i35wo 246,700 ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESPIRITO
SOURCE APf-e F-Ad,a.A Cenro 00 Idto,AA;001  DAdA, do RA dA JARIRA ICIDEA BA OTRO D br, 1987  sSANTO
V_, SMINAS GERAIS
j  X;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AREA OP  1R88
AT0
!PARACAMBI                        ,          <y    IS                                                                                                                                          A        1MDO
PAULO
ITAGUAI                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITABOWA
MANGARATIBA                                                                                                                            NITER&z .C.                       ARC
23-~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
KILOMETERS
BANE 1988



