Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2975 BR
(Rio Flood Reconstruction and Prevention Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
Dated September 29, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2975 BR
STATE PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO (the State).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between Caixa Economica 
Federal-CEF (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to  one hundred seventy-five 
million dollars ($175,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the State agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement (the State SLA) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the State, part of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the 
Loan Agreement will be made available to the State on  the terms and conditions set 
forth in said State SLA; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the  General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The State declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part A of the Project and cause, under the Municipal SLAs, the 
Municipalities to carry out Part C of the Project, all  with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A and C 
of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the foregoing, the State shall select the specific 
investments and technical assistance projects and carry out Part A  of the Project and 
cause the Municipalities to select the specific investments and technical assistance 
projects and carry out Part C of the Project in conformity with the State Operational 
Manual.
(c)
The State shall carry out the State Resettlement Plan in a manner and 
according to a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)
Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the State shall 
not amend, abrogate, waive, fail to enforce or repeal the State Operational Manual or 
the State Resettlement Plan or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. The State shall carry out, and cause the Municipalities to carry 
out, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of 
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of  goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A and C of the Project, respectively.
Section 2.04. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of Parts A and C of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement, the State SLA, the State-Rio Convenio and 
each of the Municipal SLAs, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
The State shall promptly inform the Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts 
A and C of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the 
performance by the State of its obligations  under this Agreement, the State SLA, the 
State-Rio Convenio and each of the Municipal SLAs.
Section 2.05. The State shall relend the proceeds of the Loan  allocated to 
financing Part C of the Project to the Municipalities under agreements (the Municipal 
SLAs), satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into between the State and each of the 
Municipalities.
Page  3
Section 2.06. The State shall duly perform all its obligations under the State 
SLA, the  State-Rio Convenio and each of the Municipal SLAs. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the State shall not take or concur  in any action which would have 
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning  or waiving the State SLA, the State-Rio 
Convenio or any of the Municipal SLAs, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. The State shall maintain GEROE with staffing, responsibilities and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank, and shall provide promptly as needed the funds, 
staff facilities and other resources required by GEROE to carry out its 
responsibilities in coordinating the execution of  Parts A and C of the Project and 
supervising the execution of Part B of the Project.
Section 2.08. Not later than March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of 
each year, the State, through GEROE, shall prepare and furnish to each of the Bank and 
the Borrower a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on 
the progress of the execution of Parts A and C of the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) The State shall at all times operate and maintain, or, through 
the Municipal SLAs, cause to be operated and maintained, all  facilities constructed 
under, or relevant to, Parts A and C of the Project,  and promptly as needed, make or 
cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
(b)
For purposes of the foregoing, the State shall, and through the  
Municipal SLAs shall cause the Municipalities to establish, maintain or increase, as 
necessary, taxes, user charges or other levies, satisfactory to  the Bank, at such 
levels or in such amounts as shall be required to cover at least the operating and 
maintenance costs of such facilities.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a)  The State shall maintain and cause the Municipalities to 
maintain separate records and accounts adequate to reflect  in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the Municipalities and the departments or agencies of the State responsible 
for carrying out of Parts A and C of the Project.
(b)
The State shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
Section 3.02. (a) The State shall carry out the State Financial Action Program 
in a manner and according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
Unless the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the State shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the State Financial Action Program or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Page  4
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the State 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the State thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the State:
Secretaria de Planejamento e Controle (SECPLAN)
Palacio Guanabara, Edificio Anexo
Rua Pinheiro Machado, s/n
22.231 Rio de Janeiro, R.J., Brasil
Telex:
(021) 21272
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the State may  
be taken or executed by the Secretario de Planejamento e Controle or such other person 
or persons as the Secretario  de Planejamento e Controle shall designate in writing, 
and the State shall  furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  5
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Everardo Wessels
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
By /s/ Wellington Moreira Franco
Authorized Representative
