Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2975 BR
(Rio Flood Reconstruction and Prevention Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF RIO DE JANEIRO
Dated September 29, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2975 BR
RIO PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR   
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MUNICIPALITY OF RIO DE JANEIRO (Rio).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Caixa Economica 
Federal - CEF (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to  one hundred seventy-five 
million dollars ($175,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that Rio agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement (the Rio SLA) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and Rio, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for  under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to Rio on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Rio SLA; and
Page  2
WHEREAS Rio, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the  General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Rio declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency   and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Part B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the foregoing, Rio shall select the specific  
investments and technical assistance projects and carry out Part B of the  Project in 
conformity with the Rio Operational Manual.
(c)
Rio shall carry out the Rio Resettlement Plan in a manner and according 
to a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank. 
(d)
Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, Rio shall not 
amend, abrogate, waive, fail to enforce or repeal the Rio Operational Manual or the 
Rio Resettlement Plan or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Rio shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating  to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and  reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. Rio shall duly perform all its obligations under the Rio SLA and  
the State-Rio Convenio. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Rio shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Rio SLA or State-Rio  Convenio or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Rio shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of Part B of the Project, the  performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Rio SLA and the  State-Rio Convenio, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Rio shall promptly inform the Bank, GEROE, the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with  the progress of Part 
B of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of  the Loan, or the performance 
by Rio of its obligations under this Agreement, the Rio SLA and the State-Rio 
Convenio.
Section 2.06. (a) Rio shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be 
operated and maintained, all facilities constructed under, or  relevant to, Part B of 
the Project, and promptly as needed, make or cause to be made all necessary repairs 
Page  3
and renewals thereof.
(b)
For purposes of the foregoing, Rio shall establish, maintain or increase, 
as necessary, taxes, user charges or other levies, satisfactory  to the Bank, at such 
levels or in such amounts as shall be required to  cover at least the operating and 
maintenance costs of such facilities.
Section 2.07. Not later than March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of 
each year, Rio shall prepare and furnish to each of the Bank, the Borrower and GEROE a 
report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on the progress 
of the execution of Part B of the project.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Rio shall maintain separate records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Rio 
responsible for carrying out Part B of the Project.
(b)
Rio shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
Section 3.02. (a) Rio shall carry out the Rio Financial Action Program  in a 
manner and according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
Unless the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, Rio shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Rio Financial Action Program or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Rio 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Rio thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
Page  4
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For Rio:
Secretaria Municipal de Planejamento
Rua Afonso Cavalcante, 455, 13 - Andar
Cidade Nova, Rio de Janeiro, R.J. 20211 Brasil
Telex:
2137348
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Rio may be 
taken or executed by Secretario de Planejamento or such other person or persons as 
Secretario de Planejamento shall designate in writing, and Rio shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Everardo Wessels
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
MUNICIPALITY OF RIO DE JANEIRO
By /s/ Jo de Rezende
Authorized Representative
Page  5
