Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13648-TO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
JUNE 7, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
March 1995
Currency Unit       =      CFA Franc (CFAF)I
US$1                =      CFAF 530
CFAF I million      =      US$1887
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APE                 Parents' Association (Association des parents d'elves)
AfDB                African Development Bank (Banque Africaine de Developpement)
FED                 European Development Fund (Fonds Europgen de Developpement)
DAF                 Division for Financial Affairs of the DGPE (Division des Affaires Financieres)
DEPE                Directorate for the Implementation of Education Projects (Direction de I'Execution des
Projets d'Education)
DEPD                Directorate for Primary Education (Direction de I 'Enseignement du Premier Degre)
DEDD                Directorate for Secondary Education (Direction de I 'Enseignement du 2e Degre)
DIFOP               Directorate for Continuing Training & Pedagogical Action Research (Direction de la
Formation Permanente, de l'Action et de la Recherche Pedagogique)
DGPE                General Directorate of Education Planning (Direction-generale de la Planification de
I 'Education)
DRH                 Directorate for Human Resources (Direction des Ressources Humaines)
lAPSO               Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office
ICB                 Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA                 Intemational Development Association
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
LIMUSCO             School Cooperative Bookstore (Librairie des Mutuelles Scolaires)
MENRS               Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research (Ministere de l'Education
Nationale et de la Recherche Scientifique)
METFP               Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training (MinistWre de l'Enseignement
Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle)
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NGO                 Non-Govemmental Organization
PA                  Project Account
PEF                 Training and Employment Progran (Programme dEmploi et Formation)
PFP                 Policy Framework Paper
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
VET                 Vocational Education and Training
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
September - June
lh CFAF is tied to the French fanc (FF) in the ratio of FFI=CFAF 100. The French franc is currently floating.



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................i
L INTRODUCTION .1
IL  SECTORAL CONTEXT
A.  Background  ....................................2
B.    Recent Developments ....................................2
C.    Education Sector Background ...................................3
1.     Structure .............................3
2.     Administration ............................3
3.     Sector Development Issues ............................4
4.     Government Education Sector Strategy ............................6
5.     World Bank Sector Strategy ............................7
6.     Educational Management ............................8
D.    Lessons Learned ....................................8
MI. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives and Scope ....................................9
B.    Project Component Description                   ................................... 10
1. Improve the Quality of Schools            ..                ................................. 10
(a)  School Construction and Rehabilitation ...................................   10
(b)  Textbook Provision ....................................11
(c)  Quality Schools Initiative ................................... 12
This report is based on the findings of the Bank appraisal and post-appraisal missions which visited Togo in June 1992 and
between November 1993 and February 1995. The appraisal mission was comprised of Messrs. R. Prouty (Education
Specialist, Mission Leader, and Co-Task Manager); J. Stevens (Operations Assistant); S. Coussement (Consultant,
Information Systems); and P. d'Almeida (Project Officer, Resident Mission). The post-appraisal missions were carried out by
Messrs./Mmes. R. Prouty, B. Moll-Drucker (Education Specialist, Co-Task Manager); R. Key (Economist); S. Diop
(Textbook Specialist); P. Theunissen (Consultant, Architect); S. Coussement; M. Bradley (Operations Analyst); J.-C.
Hameidat (Implementation Specialist); and P. d'Almeida. Mr. Ward Heneveld is the Lead Advisor, Mr. Thomas Eisemon is
the Peer Reviewer. The report was processed by Ms. Nicole Hamon. Mr. Olivier Lafourcade and Mr. Ian Porter are the
Department Director and the managing Division Chief, respectively, for the operation.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
2.  Develop Better Education System  Management ............................................                 15
(a)   Decentralized Recruitment and Financing of Teachers .......................................  15
(b)   Information and Communication Systems .............................................               17
(c)    Budgetary Programming and Monitoring ........................                 .................... 18
(d)    Consolidation of the Ministerial Restructuring ............................................     18
C.       Project Costs and Financing ............................................                                     20
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.       Status of Project Preparation ............................................                                   22
B.       Project Coordination and Management ............................................                             22
C.       Monitoring and Evaluation ............................................ 23
D.       Implementation Schedule ............................................. 23
E.       Procurement .............................................                                                    23
F.       Disbursements ............................................ 27
G.       Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting ............................................                             28
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.       Benefits .............................................                                                       29
B.       Risks and Measures to Address Them .............................................                             29
VI.       AGREEMENTS REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATION .............................................  29
VII. ANNEXES
I        Flow  Chart of the Formal Education System
II       Education Budget Indicators
III      Evolution of Students and Repetition in Primary and Lower Secondary Education
IV       Letter of Education Sector Policy
V        Training and Skills Transfer
VI   Textbook Component
VII      Quality Schools Initiative Component
VIII   Project Cost and Financing Tables
IX       Project Implementation Manual: Table of Contents and Implementation Procedures
X        Key Monitoring Indicators
XI       Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan
XII    Implementation Schedule, Calendar of Activities and Technical Assistance
XIII   Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
XIV    Evaluation Criteria for Mid-Term  Review
MAP: IBRD No. 26027R



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Total area                                               56,600 km2
GNP per capita                                           US$315
Total population                                         3.9 million
Urban population as a percent of total population        29%
Total fertility rate                                     6.5%
Crude birth rate (per 1,000 population)                  45
Crude death rate (per 1,000 population)                  13
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)            85
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         55
Annual population growth rate                            3.1%
Gross/Net Enrollment Ratios (1993)
Primary: Total                                 90/61
Female                               71/50
Secondary: Total (1990)                          23/na
Female (1990)                         12/na
Pupil:Teacher Ratio: Primary (1993)                      53
Secondary (1990)                     n.a.
Repeaters as percent of total enrollment (1990)
Primary                                36
Secondary                              n.a.
Sources of education sector statistics: Planning Office, Ministry of Education (1991, 1994), Human Development Report
1994, AFTHR Technical Note No. 7; Other data: World Development Report (1994)



I



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                          ii
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Togo
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research (MENRS)
Beneficiaries:           Primary and secondary school students under the aegis of the Ministry of
National Education and Scientific Research
Credit Amount:            SDR 23.3 million (US$36.6 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms with 40 years
Project Objectives:      This operation is designed to reverse the rapid deterioration in the education
sector in Togo following several years of social and political unrest and a
decade of declining enrollment and quality.  It is based on priorities
described in the Govermment's Letter of Education Sector Policy. The
project has two objectives: (a) to improve the quality of schools; and (b) to
develop better education system management.
Project Description:     The project's support to the implementation of the education sector strategy
would be provided through two components:
1.  The project would support the development of better schools
through: (a) school construction and rehabilitation; (b) provision of
textbooks; and (c) the Quality Schools Initiative.
2. The project would support the development of better education
system management through: (a) decentralized recruitment and financing
of teachers; and (b) development of system management tools including: (i)
information and communication systems; (ii) budgetary programming and
monitoring; and (iii) consolidation of the ministerial restructuring by
strengthening decision-making processes and further decentralizing the
responsibility for instructional as well as financial management.
Benefits:                The main benefits of the proposed project will be improved education quality
and access as a result of a more adequate supply of primary school teachers,
rebuilding of infrastructure badly damaged by recent vandalism and neglect,
and greater availability of pedagogic materials at the primary and secondary



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                             iii
school levels. The institutional capacity building carried out under the
project will be an essential step for ensuring the presence of teachers in
classrooms and for reversing declining enrollment trends. The establishment
of consultative regional school boards and a region-based Education Support
Fund will present the potential for a significant reduction in unit salary costs
as well as a corresponding opportunity for increasing the number of teachers
in place and for reallocating the sectoral budget in favor of needed non-
salary operating expenditures.
Risks:                    The main risks of the project are the politically unstable environment which
could significantly increase the likelihood of implementation delays and
difficulties in assuring adequate budgetary resources to finance
Government's counterpart contribution including payment of auxiliary
teachers. Other risks to achievement of project objectives are Government's
capacity to address broad institutional, finance and political issues critical to
the success of the reform program and low sectoral capacity to oversee the
Quality Schools Initiative on an ongoing basis. The risks presented by the
politically unstable environment are addressed to some extent in project
design, with an emphasis on working teams supported by coordinated short-
term interventions of external expertise. Budgetary issues are addressed
through up-front agreement on budget targets that are included in
Government's Letter of Education Sector Policy and that will be monitored
through a planned Public Expenditure Review, and annual budget reviews.
The Government's commitment to address institutional capacity issues has
been expressed through its Letter of Education Sector Policy which includes
specific institutional reform targets; these would be closely monitored
throughout project implementation. The issue of low sectoral capacity to
oversee the Quality Schools Initiative would be addressed through the use
of short-term consultancies to provide training and research experience to
Ministry and University of Benin personnel, who would in turn provide
training to inspectors and pedagogic counselors on an ongoing basis. The
Quality Schools Initiative would over the long term shift responsibility for in-
service training to the schools and prefectures and away from the current
unproductive centralized approach.



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                                        iv
Project Cost Summary and Financing Plan Estimates
(in US$ million, including contingencies, taxes and duties)
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS                                     Local       Foreign            Total
1. BETTER SCHOOLS
(a) School Construction and Rehabilitation               4.3            3.2               7.5
(b) Textbook Provision                                   3.9           10.1              14.0
(c) Quality Schools Initiative                           3.3            0.3               3.6
2. BETTER SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
(a) Decentralized Recruitment & Financing of Teachers   14.1            0.0              14.1
(b) Information and Communication Systems                0.2            0.6               0.8
(c) Budgetary Programming and Monitoring                 0.3            0.1               0.4
(d) Consolidation of the Ministerial Restructuring       1.2            0.4                1.6
3. REFUNDING OF PPF                                          0.3            0.1               0.4
Total Base Costs:                            27.6           14.8              42.4
Physical Contingencies:                       0.5            0.3               0.8
Price Contingencies:                          2.6            0.8               3.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                         30.7           15.9              46.6
FINANCING PLAN                        Local           Foreign         Taxes &Duties          Total
IDA                                   20.7              15.9               -                 36.6
GOVERNMENT                             5.1               -                0.8                 5.9
COMMUNITY                              4.1               -                 -                  4.1
TOTAL                  29.9              15.9              0.8                46.6
ESTIMATED IDA                                           -IDA FISCAL YEAR-
DISBURSEMENTS
FY96        FY97         FY98        FY99    FY2000   FY2001
Annual                                  4.4        14.6          6.0        5.4         4.6      1.6
Cumulative                              4.4        19.0         25.0       30.4        35.0     36.6
Project ID No. 2889






Education Rehabilitation Project                                                  1
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
L INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Government of Togo has requested IDA's assistance to finance a five-year Education
Rehabilitation Project. This project is designed to reverse the decline in education sector net
enrollment and quality. It addresses primarily short-term needs arising from the 1992-93 general
strike, while rebuilding the sector in a way that is consistent with sectoral policy and medium- and
long-term development objectives.  It will also put in place mechanisms to facilitate the
implementation of key features of this strategy, notably the decentralization of education
management and finance. This operation would be the first phase of two education sector
operations planned to implement broad-based sector reform. The second operation would
accelerate development of the education system by further strengthening school-level teaching and
learning processes and reinforcing the sustainability of sector financing, and decentralized
management.
1.2   The Bank's previous involvement in the education sector in Togo includes two general
education projects, now closed (Cr. 101 8-TO, Cr. 1568-TO), and an ongoing Technical Education
and Vocational Training Project (Cr. 2174-TO). The latter aims at restructuring and
decentralizing the VET system through a national training fund to make it employment oriented
and responsive to the skill demands of Togo's private sector. The results of these projects have
underscored the need to closely monitor the broad policy and institutional environment and to
focus on issues of implementation. Experience has demonstrated that meeting specific resource
needs will be insufficient to bring about either sustainable improvement in teaching and learning
outcomes that require the availability of personnel, basic materials and equipment, or regional and
gender equity, in the absence of complementary measures designed to strengthen planning and
management capacity, reorient incentives, and redefine policies and operational strategies. The
Education Rehabilitation Project is designed to address these issues.
1.3   The Country Assistance Strategy for Togo assigns a high priority to the strategy and
activities envisaged under the project in support of the central role that human resource
development must play in the economic renaissance of the country. The Country Assistance
Strategy stresses that the development of education sector policy must be pursued within a
difficult macroeconomic framework. Sectoral policy should hence be monitored closely and
developed further over the life of the project. Project preparation has been a broadly participative
process, and the supervision of the project would include annual review meetings and a mid-term
review with representation of all stakeholders involved in the sector as well as beneficiary
assessments.



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                  2
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Background
2.1   Togo is a low-income country with an estimated per capita GNP of US$315 in 1994 and a
population of 3.9 mnillion that is rapidly growing at an annual rate of 3.1 percent. The economy
has traditionally depended on primary production, service activities and exports of phosphates and
cotton. Agricultural production is concentrated in food crops, cotton, coffee and cocoa. About 75
percent of the active population is employed in agriculture which accounts for about 38 percent of
GDP. The service sector consists mainly of commerce and transit activities.
2.2   As a result of favorable trends in primary commodity prices, facilitated by political
stability, the Togolese economy experienced almost two decades of uninterrupted real growth in
excess of 5 percent per annum through the late 1970s. During the period 1974-78, however,
growth increasingly stemmed from an excessive and externally-financed expansion of the public
sector, leading to increasing external and intemal financial imbalances and mounting structural
rigidities. A partial stabilization program was launched in 1979, but after four years of stagnating
economic activity and continual financial problems, the Togolese Government recognized the
need for a more comprehensive recovery policy.
2.3   In response, the first in a series of structural adjustment programs was launched in 1983.
These programs have all been supported by the IMF and by the Bank, most recently through SAL
IV which was approved by the Board in December 1990. The thrust of these programs has been
to reduce the external and internal financial imbalances, cut back the Government's role in the
economy while improving its efficiency in using public resources, and improve the incentives
framework for private sector activities. Until early 1991, substantial progress was achieved in
implementing the structural reforms, while significantly reducing the internal and external financial
imbalances. During the period 1984-89, Togo was considered as one of the best economic
performers in Western Africa, with real GDP growth of 3.4 percent p.a. on average.
B. Recent Developments
2.4   Political Developments. A deep political crisis was precipitated in 1991, when the
regime came under increasing pressure to establish a multi-party system. This interrupted Togo's
successful economic recovery of the 1980s. The period was marred by violent street riots and
mass civil disobedience. A national conference, convened in July 1991, led to the formation of a
one-year transition Government. Parliamentary and presidential elections were scheduled for July
1992 but political violence disturbed the electoral calendar, paralyzing economic activity from
November 1992 through July 1993. The political situation improved during the second half of
1993. In August 1993, President Eyadema was reelected for a five-year term and legislative
elections were completed in March 1994.
2.5   Economic Developments. The combination of socio-political turmoil and compression of
Government expenditures, exacerbated by the drying up of foreign aid, led to a severe contraction
of the economy. During 1991-93, GDP fell by 17 percent, revenues dropped by 47 percent, and
by end-1993, the overall fiscal deficit widened to 14.5 percent of GDP. During 1992-93, the



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                  3
Government increase of domestic payment arrears amounted to about CFAF 37 billion (10% of
GDP). The substantial drop in net foreign financing led to a marked deterioration in the overall
balance of payments. By end-1993, external payment arrears amounted to the equivalent of US$
111 million.
2.6   Post Devaluation Developments. The devaluation of the CFA Franc in January 1994,
the formation of a new Government in June 1994 and the preparation of a three-year Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) set the stage for greater political stability and the country's economic
recovery. The 1994/95-1996/97 PFP provides the macroeconomic framework required for the
resumption of structural reforms interrupted by the political turmoil of the last three years. During
1994, the economy showed clear signs of recovery and real growth is estimated to about 11
percent spurred by increased production of traditional export crops (cotton and coffee) and a
strong recovery of mining and manufacturing. The external current account deficit was limited to
8 percent of GDP. The current primary budget deficit was contained to about 5 percent of GDP.
However, despite improved performance in 1994, Government revenues amounted to only about
half Government expenditures. Togo's budgetary situation is expected to remain tight in 1995,
1996 and 1997.
C. Education Sector Background
1. Structure
2.7   Togo's education system consists of a six-year cycle of primary education, a four-year
lower-secondary cycle, a three-year upper-secondary cycle, and a range of higher education
programs from two to eleven years in length at the University of Benin. The Ministry of National
Education and Scientific Research (MENRS) is responsible for general education programs; the
Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training (METFP) is responsible for vocational
training. The organization of the formal education system is presented in Annex I.
2. Administration
2.8   Operations within the two ministries are highly centralized: while regional offices for
educational planning and school mapping exist, they are branches of the corresponding central
structures. Togo's teaching corps is highly fragmented, with teachers falling into a number of
separate categories for administrative purposes. The University of Benin has semi-autonomous
status within the MENRS and receives a block grant for payment of operational expenditures and
teachers. Approximately 66 percent of primary and secondary school teachers have regular civil
service status. In addition to the 15,668 teachers and administrators with civil service status, (this
figure includes 2,400 teachers in church-run schools for whom the Government pays 80 percent
of civil service salary rates), approximately 4,300 auxiliary teachers are hired on a contract basis
through a variety of Government programs and local initiatives: (a) the Ministry of Labor
manages a " national service" training and employment program (Programme d'emploi et
formation--PEF) under which approximately 1,400 primary teachers, 330 lower-secondary
teachers, and 565 upper-secondary teachers are hired on the basis of renewable, low-cost
contracts (at 20 to 40 percent of civil service wage rates): (b) collectivities have hired teachers
largely through parental contributions (approximately 1,355 primary teachers); (c) inspectorates



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                     4
have paid auxiliary teacher salaries with funds generated in part from school fees and intended for
their travel and operating budgets; and (d) parents' groups have hired teachers independently (at
pay rates averaging between 5 to 10 percent of civil service rates).
2.9    Auxiliary primary school teacher salaries vary widely: locally hired teachers average
approximately CFAF 7,000 monthly, although some receive no cash payments and are paid in
kind. Underqualified teachers on Government contracts receive CFAF 20,000 monthly; teachers
with a four-year secondary certificate (brevet) receive CFAF 25,000 monthly and teachers with
high school diplomas (baccalaureat) or above receive CFAF 30,000 monthly. This compares to
an average of CFAF 90,000 monthly for starting civil service teachers, including benefits.
Secondary school teachers on contract receive either CFAF 65,000 or 70,000 monthly depending
on qualifications. This is about one half of civil service rates for beginning secondary teachers,
including benefits.
3. Sector Development Issues
2.10  Unplanned and unsustainable sector development. Since 1984, recruitment of civil
servants in Togo has been frozen. In the education sector, this has given rise to a number of
alternative and sometimes makeshift arrangements as described above, in order to replace retired
or deceased teachers or to meet growing demand. These arrangements have been extremely
unstable, and have resulted in school closings and frequent disruption of school programs and
occasional strikes. The present fiscal crisis has exacerbated these problems, with the most severe
problems created in rural areas, because urban schools more easily attract civil service teachers
from rural areas to replace retiring teachers.
2.11   The economic crisis caused a serious deterioration in the quality and access to basic
education, which was, even before 1990, characterized by inadequate budgetary allocations,
inefficiency, and lack of relevance to the needs of a developing economy. At a functional level,
many classrooms were severely overcrowded and teacher training was non-existent. The work of
inspectors, directors and other personnel was organized in ways that provided almost no
instructional support. Primary school enrollment ratios had been deteriorating, as had most
indicators of instructional quality. At 36 percent and 46 percent respectively, student repetition
and drop-out rates were among the highest in sub-Saharan Africa, and a disproportionately low
number of girls were in school. There were systemic biases in favor of urban schooling, and in
favor of higher levels of education. Secondary school teachers were often inefficiently distributed
and underutilized. In general, policy making has been a highly centralized process.
2.12  The general strike in 1992-93 brought the educational system to a complete halt for six
months, and further weakened a sector that had already been in steady decline for more than a
decade. Following the strike, although classes have resumed, educational material is lacking,
many auxiliary teachers recruited by the commnunities are still not being paid and instructional
standards continue to fall as a result of a significant cut in inspectors' budgets and increased
reliance on untrained teachers. While the situation is serious across the country, it is particularly
acute in the Savannah and Central regions.



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                     5
2.13   Rural/urban disparities. A number of features within the current Togolese education
system mitigate against equal schooling opportunities for rural children. The freeze on hiring
teachers through the civil service has meant that as teachers retire in urban areas, there is a
tendency that they are replaced by teachers from rural schools. This leaves the rural schools with
a perennial teacher shortage, with no other recourse than to finance teachers with whatever
sources of funding are available locally (parents' comrnittees, inspectors' travel and operational
budgets, NGOs, etc.). In the rural Savannah region, for instance, 41 percent of all teachers are
financed locally, whereas only 17 percent of teachers are financed locally in the capital city of
Lome. The result is uneven teaching quality for children in rural areas, and significantly fewer
opportunities to attend school and to advance through the grades. The net schooling rate in the
country is estimated at 61 percent (1993-94), although statistical data are not reliable and
enrollment rates vary from approximately 85 percent in the capital region to only 30 percent in the
rural Savannah region. The lack of school mapping capacity has been a handicap to efforts to
establish a sector expansion program sensitive to gender equity concerns. The lack of school
mapping capacity further hinders the development of rural schooling.
2.14  Gender equity. The nation's female literacy rate is substantially lower than that among
men (31 percent versus 52 percent). In rural areas the situation is worse as less than 15 percent of
women are literate. The percentage of female students in the educational system remained low,
and relatively unchanged, over the period 1980-90. The most striking feature concerning girls'
schooling is that initial enrollment of girls is relatively positive (42 percent of the total), but that
girls drop out of the system at astonishingly high rates: by the first year of secondary schooling,
they represent only 29 percent of the total; by the last year of secondary schooling this figure has
dropped to 12 percent. It is clear that the impact of Togo's high repetition rates is bome
disproportionately by the female students, for whom repetition commonly leads to dropout. In
several respects, the economic crisis has increased gender disparities. Female students have been
less likely to return to school after the end of the strike. The findings of recent Bank sector work
on girls' schooling in Togo will provide an important input for the quality school initiatives of the
project, as well as future interventions in this area. Some demand and household-related factors
affecting girls' schooling and the links between girls' schooling and school quality would require
further operation-based study.
2.15   Budget and finance issues. The institutional capacity of the Ministry of Education for
budget planning is weak. Resource allocation within the sector does not match the stated
priorities of the Government. The education sector's share of the national budget has dropped
from 28 percent to 19 percent, slightly below the francophone average for Sub-Saharan Africa of
22 percent; higher education receives about 25 percent of this total (1995) even though it serves
only 1 percent of the students. Secondary education receives 34 percent of the total, while
primary education receives a relatively low 41 percent of the overall sector budget. Education
budget indicators are presented in Annex II.
2.17  The breakdown of the budget by expenditure category reveals a number of imbalances.
Prior to the current economic crisis, salary expenditures in the primary education budget, for
instance, consumed approximately 98 percent of total non-administrative expenditures, leaving
very little for the purchase of textbooks, chalk, and other pedagogical inputs. The situation has



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                     6
further deteriorated since then, with non-salary operating expenditures now accounting for less
than one percent of primary expenditures (excluding central administration).
2.18   Quality of instruction. There are a wide range of quality issues as regards teaching and
learning outcomes requiring immediate attention. The repetition rate is the most striking indicator
demonstrating the extent of the problem: fully 35 percent of all students in the system, at all
levels from primary to tertiary, fail each year. Few textbooks are available, pre-service training
has not been offered in ten years, and there is little in-service training. Adequate information
regarding the quality of teaching and learning is unavailable. Statistical yearbooks are being
produced almost three years late; evaluation capacity remains weak. At present, there is no
capacity for systematically sampling the level of student learning outcomes, although evaluations
of the system prepared in the mid- and late-1980s already referred to declining levels of
performance. Many classrooms are overcrowded, with students numbering as high as 200 in
urban Grade 1 classrooms. Annex m provides enrollment and repetition figures for primary and
lower secondary education.
4. Government Education Sector Strategy
2.19  The evolution of Togo's education system has been the product of a complex interaction
of factors, not all of which can be addressed at once. Immediately prior to the strike, MENRS
established its priorities for the reform process in a Letter of Education Sector Policy. It
emphasized basic education (Grades 1 through 10) and efforts to improve school quality and girls'
participation. The principal management approach for achieving this was to be through a focus
on the individual school as the locus of change. The Government also expressed a strong interest
in exploring the possibility of decentralizing most sector management functions to the regional
and prefectoral levels as a part of this shift in emphasis to the school level.
2.20  Following the strike, circumstances have forced the Government to redefine its priorities
in order to address the most pressing crises in the sector. It has prepared and submitted to IDA a
new Letter of Education Sector Policy (Annex IV) which highlights the lack of teachers and
teaching materials, and the degradation of school facilities and proposes a two phase approach to
educational reform. In the first phase, the Government seeks to restore stability to the sector by:
(i) assuring the regular payment of all primary teachers; (ii) conducting a functional audit of the
Ministry to ensure the best use of available personnel and resources to support teaching and
learning, (iii) rehabilitating classrooms; and (iv) increasing the availability of basic pedagogic
materials in conjunction with the implementation of experimental quality schools initiatives.
2.21  In parallel, during the first phase, the Government would develop mechanisms to put in
place a more decentralized system of management and financing for primary education, including
establishing five regional school boards and a decentralized Education Support Fund. Beyond its
role as a conduit for the funding of auxiliary teachers' salaries, the Fund is seen as a tool for
enabling more decentralized management of schools by regional school boards. Financing of the
Fund would be the joint responsibility of communities and the Government, with the Government
continuing to contribute most of the funding, in part through cost savings from attrition in the
civil service, on an increasing basis. Community financing during this phase would initially consist
of 40 percent of school fees, the proportion of school fees that is currently being transferred to the



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                   7
central Ministry. The Government would also seek donor financing to the Education Support
Fund.
2.22 In the second phase of reform, the Government would move formally toward
decentralized personnel management with the establishment of regional auxiliary teaching bodies.
The regional school boards would take over responsibility for teacher recruitment and financing
(with continuing Government contributions), in-service teacher training, as well as the
development of initiatives at the regional and school levels to improve the quality of teaching and
learning that would allow the expansion of access to primary and lower secondary schooling and
substantive improvements in instructional quality. The Government has presented to IDA a
signed Letter of Education Sector Policy a draft of which was discussed and agreed during
negotiations.
5. World Bank Sector Strategy
2.23  The current project would address issues dealing with the first phase of the Government's
strategy. This includes a start to establishing a framework for the gradual transfer of management
responsibilities to the regions, a process which would be pursued under a follow-up operation.
The follow up operation would continue to support local management of teaching and learning
processes, as well as financial management and re-allocation of resources in a manner consistent
with the Government's emphasis on basic education. Activities proposed under the current project
have been designed in line with the two phase strategy and would prepare the ground for key
aspects of the follow-up project, notably to provide improved management tools to the education
system and a basic framework for longer-term decentralization of education management. The
timing of the follow-up project would be determined in large part by success in implementing the
activities planned in the present project, as well as by Government's ability to ensure sustainable
funding of the sector.
2.24  The project would ensure the availability of teachers, teaching materials, and classrooms.
The Education Ministry would be given assistance in establishing the criteria under which funding
would be granted to regional school boards, as well as procedures for transfer of funds,
accounting, auditing, etc. Financial managers would be trained for these school boards and
financial accounts and procedures would be established for each region. School and community
personnel would be trained to establish transparent procedures for managing the textbook rental
program, the rehabilitation of classrooms, the redeployment of secondary school teachers,and the
implementation of the Quality Schools Initiative to upgrade teaching quality.
2.25  In addition, the project would ensure the establishment of five decentralized school
boards, with responsibility for hiring and firing auxiliary teachers, and funding granted according
to agreed criteria, accounting and audit procedures. Redeployment of secondary school teachers
would reduce the need for auxiliary teachers at this level and free up resources for primary
education. The rehabilitation and replacement of 800 classrooms, the distribution of textbooks,
and the extension of the Quality Schools Initiative would continue to provide for the improvement
of teaching and learning.



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                   8
6.' Educational Management
2.26 A positive development in the evolution of management capacity within the MENRS has
already' occurred with the establishment of a sectoral Steering Committee comprised of key
departmental directors and chaired by the Minister or his representative. It was established to
take responsibility for project preparation and implementation, and has emerged as the principal
decision-making body within the ministry, with broad responsibility for policy decisions and
implementation. The Steering Committee is the primary vehicle for ensuring that information and
policy options produced during project implementation are effectively channeled into the policy
formulation process. In this context, it is also responsible for ensuring wide participation in the
preparation and implementation process, both within and outside the education ministry, and for
building consensus regarding project objectives and operational strategies.
2.27  Given the importance of intersectoral re-allocation of resources in favor of the social
sectors, and the need for a Government-wide dialogue regarding the links between education and
economic development, an interministerial committee has been established to oversee these
broader issues. Membership includes the Ministries of Education, Plan, Finance, and Employment
The interministerial committee would meet on a quarterly basis during the first year of
implementation and twice a year throughout the remaining years of the project. It would also
provide annual updates to the Government's Letter of Education Sector Policy reflecting progress
in ensuring the transition toward activities planned for the follow-up project. The interministerial
committee would also be responsible for assuring the proposed reallocation of Government
resources in favor of education.
2.28 Donor coordination. Among donors, IDA has taken the lead in the policy dialogue with
Government. Discussions have been held with all of the principal actors who have historically
been active in the sector, although some donors have suspended activities in the country. The
African Development Bank (AfDB) has intervened in the VET subsector to rehabilitate three
lower secondary vocational training centers; it has also begun to gradually replace 360 classrooms
in the central region of the country. The European Union is also considering providing support to
the primary education sector. The Japanese Governnent has already purchased library books and
is considering the construction of a number of primary classrooms in urban areas.
D. Lessons Learned
2.29  The Bank's previous involvement in the education sector in Togo underscores the need to
pay attention to how the broad policy environment affects issues of implementation, sustainability
and quality. Both the Educational Improvement Project (Education Project II) and the ongoing
Vocational Education and Training Project provide compelling examples of these concerns. The
lack of a coherent strategy to deal with insufficient funding of recurrent costs, especially for
teacher financing has been a key issue. This created an unstable and unproductive teacher
situation at all levels of the system and led to widespread teacher shortages. The provision of
science laboratory facilities to high schools, which was a key part of Education Project II, was
ultimately unsuccessful because school directors lacked the capacity to reorganize classroom
utilization pattems. The attempt to develop national pre-service teacher training institutions did
not succeed because of the Government's inability to provide the recurrent costs associated with



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                   9
investment projects. Most primary pupils, especially in the rural areas, did not have access to
textbooks provided under the Education Project II because of inability to pay. These problems
have further demonstrated that meeting specific resource needs may be insufficient to produce
sustainable improvement in teaching and learning in the absence of complementary measures
designed to strengthen educational planning and management both at the central and school
levels, as well as beneficiary involvement.
mL THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Scope
3.1    Objectives and Scope. The project seeks to halt the degradation in educational services
in Togo and strengthen institutional capacity conducive to developing longer-term reform. It
does this by focusing interventions in two areas: (a) improving the quality of schools through
school construction and rehabilitation, textbook provision, and the introduction of a school-based
innovation in teaching and learning processes through the Quality Schools Initiative; and (b)
developing better education system management through decentralized recruitment and financing
of teachers and development of system management tools. With regard to better schools, the
project would: (i) rehabilitate approximately 800 classrooms, many of which were damaged or
vandalized during the ten-month period when Government virtually ceased to function in 1992-
93; (ii) finance the purchase of approximately 2,300,000 primary school textbooks and 41,000
primary teachers' guides, and approximately 510,000 lower secondary textbooks (Grades 7-10),
and 20,000 lower secondary teachers' guides, along with training on textbook use and textbook
stock maintenance; and (iii) lay the foundation for much greater school-level involvement in
developing more effective teaching and learning processes (Quality Schools Initiative). With
regard to better system management, the project would: (i) ensure the availability of teachers at
the primary school level by helping stabilize the current auxiliary teacher situation; (ii) improve
decision-making processes by strengthening information and communication systems; (iii)
overhaul the process of preparing, monitoring, and executing the operating and investment
budgets; and (iv) consolidate gains from an earlier Ministerial restructuring by focusing Ministry
functions around the teaching and learning process.
3.2   Technical Assistance, Studies and Training. Only short-term technical assistance is
envisaged under this project (about 250 man/months). The strategy adopted is to recruit high
caliber expertise with a commitment to on-the-job training and the ability to transfer skills and
knowledge to nationals (see details in Annex V and Annex XII). The consultant profiles
developed emphasize the importance of training, team building and communication skills. In
those instances where technical assistance is envisaged in the preparation of studies, the terms of
reference call for close collaboration with Togolese counterpart professionals, including Togolese
consultant firms and university personnel. Draft terms of reference for all technical assistance
during the first year of the project have been agreed upon during negotiations.



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                   10
B. Project Component Description
1. Improve the Quality of Schools
3.3   In spite of the overall degradation of the sector, there have been some signs of
improvement at the central level. A sectoral Steering Committee with substantial authority has
been created and has become a strong decision-making body. Government Letter of Education
Sector Policy demonstrates an understanding on the part of the Government that creating better
schools means not only providing the proper mix of physical and pedagogical inputs, but also
paying close attention to how change occurs. It reflects the Govermnent's comniitment to collect
and disseminate reliable information about learning processes and learning outcomes, and to
establish an enabling policy environment.
3.4   These positive developments stand in stark contrast to classroom-level realities, where the
learning environment has been severely strained by the recent social and political unrest. Physical
plants degraded rapidly due to vandalism and neglect which took place during the 1992-93
general strike. School materials were stolen or damaged, and instructional leadership was greatly
diluted as inspectors' budgets disappeared or were assigned elsewhere and school principals were
obliged to spending an increasing portion of their time dealing with new administrative challenges
such as raising funds for hiring auxiliary teachers or for purchasing basic teaching and learning
materials.
3.5   In addition to the insufficiency of the physical plant, there is little shared understanding
among practitioners about how to improve the way schools operate. This is due in part to the
lack of capacity to define evaluation criteria and to collect and analyze information on school-level
performance. Little reliable information exists regarding student achievement, the performance of
teachers and school managers, and the impact of education policy and strategic interventions on
schools, teachers, and communities. In spite of the declining rate of girls' enrollment throughout
the primary cycle, for instance, gender-disaggregated data on repetition and dropout are not
readily available.
3.6   The approach adopted in developing this component has been to ensure that school
facilities are returned to acceptable minimum standards and that the window of opportunity
provided by the upgrading of the physical plant be used to establish processes within schools that
are more supportive of improved teaching and learning and would lead to sustainable economic
development.
(a) School Construction and Rehabilitation Component (base cost US$7.5 million
equivalent)
3.7   Objectives and Scope. School facilities in Togo have deteriorated over the past decade
from a general lack of upkeep and routine maintenance. Combined with widespread vandalism
and theft during the most recent civil unrest, this has left the physical infrastructure of the
education system in a state of crisis. The majority of schools provide an inadequate learning
environment, and many are unsafe. It is now estimated that over 30 percent of all schools (or



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                 I 1
3,000 classrooms) will need to be replaced and a slightly smaller number (2,400) rehabilitated.
MENRS estimates that by the year 2000 a total of 8,000 classrooms will be required due to an
increasing school age population. The African Development Bank has already begun
implementation of a program to replace 360 primary classrooms.  Under the Education
Rehabilitation Project, 440 primary school classrooms would be rehabilitated and approximately
360 primary school classrooms would be replaced. This sub-component would also help establish
norms and procedures for classroom and school rehabilitation to inform the work of the other
donors and help develop a comprehensive program of maintenance and upkeep. Responsibility
for the construction and rehabilitation of schools under this component would be assigned to the
private sector and NGO's. An in-depth report on rehabilitation needs has been conducted by the
construction unit within the MENRS, with appropriate technical assistance. This report provides
the basis for private sector involvement and includes cost estimates, selection and evaluation
criteria, and procurement guidelines.
3.8   The project would provide for: (a) the rehabilitation of 440 classrooms and the
construction of 360 primary classrooms; (b) equipment, desks and vehicles; (c) technical
assistance for studies on rehabilitation needs, architectural services, and preparation of bidding
documents; and (d) technical assistance for review of procurement procedures linked to this
component, and other components as needed.
(b) Textbook Provision Component (base cost US$14.0 million equivalent)
3.9   Objectives and Scope. The Educational Improvement Project provided primary level
textbooks in French and Mathematics. They were sold through the Librairies des Mutuelles
Scolaires (LIMUSCO) at a price 50 percent less than in local private bookstores. However,
according to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), most of the pupils, mainly in the rural
areas, did not have access to these books because of inability to pay. At the secondary level, the
textbooks that existed prior to the general strike of 1992-93 were almost all stolen or vandalized
during this period. The current project would focus on textbooks for both the primary and lower-
secondary cycles. This would include the reprinting, purchase, and distribution of textbooks and
teachers' guides, training for school directors and parents'associations in management and
maintenance of textbook stocks, and a training program for primary and secondary teachers in the
use of the textbooks.
3.10  At the primary level, this component would supply textbooks in French, Mathematics, and
Sciences at a ratio of one book per pupil (including a provision for enrollment growth) over a
five-year period. It would also provide every teacher with a guide in these subjects. To this end,
it would reprint the French and Mathematics titles which were prepared under the Educational
Improvement Project and with which teachers are familiar. Since the copyrights were granted to
private publishers until 1999 for the French titles and 2000 for the Mathematics titles, the
Government would make arrangements with the publishers to allow for the reprinting of these
titles through ICB and consequently their financing under the project. Concerning the Sciences
books, the project would purchase them through ICB on the basis of technical and pedagogical
specifications. All the books would be packed for individual schools by the suppliers and delivered
to the schools by LIMUSCO. They would be the property of the schools which would loan them
to the pupils for a symbolic parental contribution of CFAF 200 per pupil/year (approximately 5%



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                 12
of the estimated cost of a set of books). Existing structures would be improved for the
management of textbooks. In each school, a committee presided over by the head teacher and
including the representatives of the teachers and the parents would use the proceeds collected to
ensure the protection and safekeeping of the books and to replace copies damaged or lost by
pupils. The committee would ensure that no pupil is denied access to books because of inability to
pay. In order to have up-to-date information on the number and state of the books in each school,
the MENRS Planning Department would computerize the primary and lower secondary book
stock inventories. DEPD will be responsible for the implementation of this component.
3.11  At the secondary level, subject panels would select one title per grade and subject from
existing books. The selected titles would be divided into packages and purchased through ICB.
The books would be packed for individual schools by the suppliers and delivered directly to the
schools by LIMUSCO. The books would become the property of the schools and be made
available to the students through a school-based rental system, which will draw on lessons learned
through the primary school textbook program. The proceeds would be used to ensure the
availability of one book for two students over a five-year period by financing repairs, replacement,
and copies for enrollment growth. According to the general guidelines of the MENRS and the
local conditions, each secondary school would create a committee for establishing and operating
its rental system. The committee would be responsible for the collection of the fees (about CFAF
1,000 per book) and their deposit in a bank account. It would use the collected fees to acquire
new textbooks. DEDD will be responsible for the implementation of this component.
3.12 During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will issue an Arrete
acceptable to IDA not later than March 31, 1996, for the establishment and operation of a
textbook loan and a decentralized rental system for primary and secondary school students
respectively, which shall include, inter alia, provisions relating to management responsibilities,
reporting and audit requirements. Details on this component are given in Annex VI.
3.13  The project would provide for: (a) the reprinting, purchase and distribution of
approximately 2,300,000 primary school textbooks and 41,000 teachers' guides; (b) the purchase
and distribution of an initial stock of approximately 510,000 textbooks for lower-secondary
schools and 20,000 teachers' guides; (c) training for primary and lower secondary teachers and
school directors in the use and maintenance of textbooks; (d) awareness campaign for parents and
parents' associations in maintaining textbook stocks, (e) technical assistance to develop the
technical and pedagogic specifications of the bidding documents and assist the Government in bid
evaluation; (f) construction of book storage facilities; and (g) computer equipment to enable
better management of the book stock inventories at MENRS and book stocks in the schools.
(c)   Quality Schools Initiative Component (base cost US$3.6 million equivalent)
3.14  Objectives and Scope. The implementation of the Education Improvement Project in
Togo showed that for in-service education programs to be successfully translated into changed
teacher behavior, they must match the felt needs of teachers in a consistent manner over time.
However, in Togo, in-service training programs have been very top-down in nature, and have
been implemented only sporadically. The teachers who have stood in greatest need of these
programs, i.e. the village-based auxiliary teachers, have frequently not had access to them.
Existing programs have often failed entirely to account for local variations in teacher and student



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                  13
needs. The Quality Schools Initiative component designed under the current operation seeks to
address this weakness by supporting stakeholder involvement in designing and carrying out an
innovative program of in-service training based on needs expressed by teachers themselves. This
program builds on existing structures to introduce teaching innovations, and would help transform
the role of the inspectors from one of administrative control to one of instructional support and
leadership.
3.15  The Togolese school system has been growing progressively weaker largely because of the
absence of adequate training for teachers. Both the pre-service and in-service training programs
were suspended during the late-1980's because of a lack of funds. Under this component, in-
service training would be re-introduced into the Togolese school system as the operational means
by which the trend of declining quality would be reversed. It would be a school-based program,
since this approach has been shown in studies elsewhere to have by far the greatest potential for
leading to positive and lasting change in teacher behavior. In order to facilitate implementation,
the component has been structured around three sub-components: (i) 50 cutting-edge
demonstration schools would be home to action research activities; (ii) 300 schools would receive
small grants given on a competitive basis for teacher-designed approaches to improving teaching
and learning; and (iii) school-based in-service teacher training programs would be organized for
all teachers throughout the country (including contractual teachers and teachers in private
schools). The dissemination strategy is that the 50 demonstration schools would share results
with the 300 "small grants" schools, each of which would in turn share results with another 8-10
schools, thus reaching all of the primary schools throughout the country. These results would in
turn inform the in-service training program, giving it a solid grounding in school-based experience
and research. Each of these sub-components is described briefly below. Their implementation
would be coordinated by the DIFOP and in collaboration with the DEPD.
3.16  Action research schools. A series of school-based "action research" projects would be
developed at 50 primary schools located in each of Togo's five geographic regions. Schools
would be chosen based on both the presence of innovative personnel and the existence of
promising local practices. To the extent possible, experimentation would build on local practices.
Examples of innovations to be considered include decentralized teacher supervision and
management systems, leading to a restructured role for school directors and inspectors, as well as
an increased role of communities in school management.
3.17  Schools hosting "action research" programs would be provided with resources such as
books and materials that could be replicated on a wider scale in the near term. The emphasis
would be on experimenting with pedagogical practices at the school level that do not imply an
important increase in recurrent spending. Improvements in the quality of learning and the
performance of individual schools would be measurable in terms of exam success rates and lower
repetition and drop-out rates. The process of pilot school identification and survey design would
provide a vehicle for consensus and capacity building in terms of how to go about improving the
way schools operate. The Quality School subcommittee (of the overall Steering Committee)
would be responsible for selecting and orienting school survey/research teams. The larger "action
research" projects would be selected through a competitive bidding process, in which public,
quasi-public (including the university and NGOs) and private research-oriented institutions would
be invited to submit survey proposals.



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                  14
3.18 Small Grants Schools. Approximately 300 small grants would be given on a competitive
basis to individual schools or school clusters for improving teaching and learning. The small
grants to individual schools or school clusters would be given on the basis of proposals prepared
by the school teachers and directors themselves. This initiative would help the MENRS to ensure
stakeholder participation in designing a program of qualitative innovations and reform at the
classroom level. The emphasis would be on practices having a direct impact on improving
teaching and learning systems, highlighting three aspects in particular: (a) problem-solving
approaches to teaching, (b) instructional management, and (c) the relationship between the school
curriculum and the school context. Systematic supervision of the "action research" projects to be
developed under this program would constitute a capacity-building mechanism within the
ministry. This component would also help ministry personnel to establish and monitor
performance indicators and to develop and refine school management and spending norms. It
would permit central and mid-level ministry personnel to benefit from stakeholder feedback on
policies, strategies, and programs.
3.19  In-service Teacher Training. There is an existing curriculum for in-service training
which was used by MENRS in the past when sufficient resources were available for this purpose.
This curriculum focused heavily on the appropriate use of textbooks and teaching materials.
During the first year of training under this project, the in-service teacher training program would
be reactivated. It would initially be designed to deal almost exclusively with helping teachers
modify their teaching strategies in the light of the new textbooks to be made available. The
lessons from the action research and small grants programs would be incorporated into the in-
service teacher training program by the third year of implementation. Schools hosting action
research programs would be expected to evolve into demonstration schools to be used for in-
service training.
3.20  The survey/research process would give the Steering Committee, as well as IDA and other
donors, the opportunity to evaluate the capacity of the survey teams and to provide constructive
feedback where needed. The number of schools involved in the program would expand depending
on local capacity, resource availability, and results obtained. The Steering Committee would be
responsible for ensuring that all activities (survey team selection, school selection, survey design
preparation and survey implementation) are coordinated with the relevant regional and district-
level authorities. In particular, inspectors in the chosen prefectures would work closely with the
survey teams. Satellite school arrangements and instructional supervision guidelines for school
principals would be tested through the network of schools participating in the Quality Schools In-
Service Training. The Quality Schools In-Service Training would also help the Government
monitor expenditures within the framework of the education budget for routine teacher training
and supervision. It would also evaluate the impact of training on teaching quality and student
learning outcomes. Annex VII further describes this component.
3.21  The project would include: (a) 50 action-research programs; (b) 300 small grants in
schools and school clusters; (c) in-service teacher training seminars and workshops; (d) short-
term technical assistance to guide and evaluate the progress of the pilot school program; and (e)
office equipment, a vehicle, and incremental operating costs for project start-up.



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                  15
2. Develop Better Education System Management
3.22  The process of preparing operating and investment budgets in the MENRS tends to be
driven by ad hoc administrative concerns rather than functional priorities. MENRS staff have also
been unable to define and articulate standard operating norms and spending priorities that would
allow them to project the implications of various actions and spending options for decision makers
either within the MENRS or in the central ministries (Finance, Planning, and Public Service).
Once budgets are accorded to the MENRS by the Ministry of Finance, little emphasis or
importance is placed on systematically monitoring and analyzing actual expenditures in the
context of past budgets or on using these figures during the preparation of future budgets. Given
the lack of technical justification for budget proposals and spending priorities, it is not surprising
that the MENRS currently plays only a limited role during the budget arbitration process.
3.23  The limited amount of attention given to budget functions within the ministry jeopardizes
the Government's policy commitment to increasingly decentralize personnel management and
funding for school maintenance and construction. This commitment requires that appropriate
budget, information, and commnunication tools be available at the regional, prefectoral, and school
levels for successful implementation.
3.24  A greatly enhanced school mapping capacity is needed for informed decision-making in
response to both emergency and long-term funding needs. The current project would strengthen
the capacity of the ministry to generate and analyze data regarding personnel, school facilities,
equipment, and furnishings. This would include data about population trends and coverage as a
basis for prioritizing teacher and administrative staff allocation and new school construction, as
well as data about school furnishings, and ongoing maintenance and rehabilitation needs.
(a) Decentralized Recruitment and Financing of Teachers Component (base cost
US$14.1 million equivalent)
3.25  Objectives and Scope. With support from the project, the Government seeks to provide
a stable environment for teaching and learning over the next five years as the economy recovers.
In line with its education sector development strategy, the Government plans to build on the few
positive features of the current auxiliary teacher situation (decentralized control, community
participation) in order to develop a more stable, region-based approach for hiring and supervising
auxiliary teachers. This is an important step towards broader education sector reforms which will
support macroeconomic and civil service reforms. It is also an essential step for ensuring the
presence of teachers in classrooms, improving teachers' productivity and morale, and for
reversing declining enrollment trends. With the, support of the project, consultative regional
school boards and a region-based Education Support Fund would be established. Regional non-
civil service teaching bodies would progressively be put in place under the authority of these
boards along with a gradual reduction in the number of civil service teachers. This approach
presents the potential for a significant reduction in unit salary costs and a corresponding
opportunity for increasing the number of teachers in place and for reallocating the sectoral budget
in favor of much needed non-salary operating expenditures. The estimated number of auxiliary
primary school teachers whose situation (status and financing) would be stabilized over the five
years of the project is provided below.



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                     16
Audiliara Primary School Teachers
Project Year 1                3,750
Project Year 2                4,000
Project Year 3                4,250
Project Year 4                4,250
Project Year 5                4,250
3.26 Under the project, additional financing for teachers' salaries would be mobilized. Initially,
resources will pass through budgetary accounts, but when the Education Support Fund has been
established under the project, resources will pass through it. The following resources will be
mobilized: (i) Government budgetary allocations, constituting counterpart funding to the project,
would be increased in line with savings from attrition in the civil service (teacher) wage bill; (ii)
community and parent contributions resulting from school fees and other community sources to
be identified. As these resources are insufficient to meet the full cost of auxiliary teachers'
salaries in the early years of the project, IDA would finance part of the incremental cost for
primary auxiliary teachers on a declining basis (declining from 80 percent to 40 percent).
3.27  In addition to auxiliary primary teacher salaries, the project would finance activities
designed to develop institutional capacity including: (a) support for the establishment of
consultative regional boards that would eventually exercise oversight responsibility for teacher
recruitment; (b) development of a financing mechanism (Education Support Fund) to ensure
regular payment of all auxiliary primary school teachers with resources collected from the parents,
contributions by local governments, and payments from the central Government and donors,
including IDA; (c) development and testing of proper accounting and audit procedures at the local
level; (d) a functional audit of all teachers and administrators paid through the civil service
(Ministry of Finance and MENRS figures differ widely, with many of those classified as teachers
apparently working outside the education sector); and (e) other studies to explore longer-term
approaches to decentralized personnel recruitment, management, and funding, including the
institutionalization of the region-based Education Support Fund.
3.28   The Government has submitted (a) budget targets for 1995-2000 and a financing plan for
auxiliary teachers' salaries (primary, lower and upper secondary levels) and (b) three studies of
decentralized teacher financing and payment. Agreement has been reached on the financing plan
and actions. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it will redeploy
teaching personnel at the secondary school level in accordance with the objectives and timetable
set forth in the Government' s strategy in the education sector laid out in the Letter of Education
Sector Policy, with the goal of increasing the efficiency of teacher use and ensuring that secondary
teachers are responsible, on average, for approximately 21 hours of teaching each week.
Government proposes to eliminate the present transfer of 40 percent of school fees to central
MENRS activities, and to provide for these funds to be a source of local counterpart financing for
auxiliary teachers. Follow-up activities and longer-terni approaches to overall teacher financing
would be agreed at the time of the mid-term project review.
3.29  The project would provide for: (a) incremental auxiliary primary school teacher salaries on
a declining basis; (b) technical assistance to establish regional school boards and develop criteria
for decentralized personnel management and financing, including the establishment of a



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                    17
decentralized Education Support Fund; (c) design of financial and auditing procedures for
decentralized payment of auxiliary teachers; (d) ongoing studies, including a functional audit of
MENRS personnel as a first step in teacher redeployment and an evaluation of the participation of
regional school boards in management decisions; (e) training of financial managers; (f) regional
and central level audits; and (g) operating expenditures of the regional school boards.
(b) Information and Communication Systems Component (base cost US$0.8
million equivalent)
3.30  Objectives and Scope. A computer systems support unit would be created within the
MENRS to provide support for information needs within the school statistics, school mapping
and personnel units. Training would be provided for personnel in these units. It is expected that
this exercise would result in the availability and use of personnel data sheets and school maps at
the inspectorate, regional, and national levels. Personnel data sheets would provide information
on teacher qualifications and experience, as well as on placement and utilization. School maps
would provide details on the school-aged population for each inspectorate--with projections
through the end of the decade--number and condition of classrooms, availability of textbooks and
other teaching materials, enrollment figures, catchmnent areas, shortage (or excess) of student
places and shortage (or excess) of teachers. This would also serve as the basis for developing a
program to evaluate the appropriateness of teacher qualifications. For secondary schools, the
information system would provide data about teaching loads per subject as a part of the
redeployment exercise. It would also provide information regarding projected rates of transition
to university. Overall, this exercise would result in a viable data base at the inspectorate level for
use in determining construction and maintenance priorities, for making decisions regarding
teacher deployment, and for informing the policy-making process.
3.31   Terms of reference for consultants which emphasize training objectives and technology
transfer, and a general scope of work have been prepared. These documents provide for
establishment of working groups and define working relationships between the Planning and
Financial Affairs directorates, regional offices of the MENRS, and the inspectorates. These
directorates would receive assistance in coordinating their work programs with efforts undertaken
in the context of the Quality Schools Initiative, the Budgetary Programming and the Ministerial
Restructuring components of the project.
3.32  Terms of reference describe in detail the technology transfer objectives of the technical
support and define criteria for evaluating the success of capacity transfer. They would also
include a technical profile which places emphasis on team building and training skills. The
MENRS directors would be accountable for the implementation of the planned training program
within their own directorate, and would receive individual progress reports.
3.33   The project would provide: (a) 36 man-months of short-term technical assistance to assist
ministry personnel in drafting work programs and to provide technical training in the area of
computerized information system management; (b) regional training workshops; (c) computers,
office equipment, supplies, and a vehicle to support the operations of the statistics and school
mapping units; and (d) general operating costs, including mission travel allowances.



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                  18
(c) Budgetary Programming and Monitoring Component (base cost US$0.4
million equivalent)
3.34  Objectives and Scope.  The objective of the project in the area of budgetary
programming and monitoring would be to strengthen the capacity of the MENRS to participate
constructively in the budget arbitration process. Support would be provided to strengthen the
capacity of staff to: (a) analyze current spending patterns--for both operating and investment
resources--aimed at identifying efficiency gains; (b) prepare and defend operating and investment
budgets on the basis of clear and coherent spending priorities and standard operating norms; and
(c) monitor and analyze actual expenditures against budgetary allocations in the context of future
budget preparation. In addition to their analytic value, the budgetary tools developed under the
project should be viewed as vehicles for legitimating change in terms of new sector priorities. The
component would be considered a success if, at the end of implementation, MENRS staff were
able to use new tools and work methods to articulate their ministry's needs and demonstrate the
budgetary implications of decision making.
3.35  Expenditure authority in Togo is, to a large extent, outside the purview of the technical
ministries. Salaries, fellowships and other transfers that constitute in excess of 90 percent of
human resource expenditures are all beyond the purview of technical ministries. Hence,
monitoring the execution of budgets will entail two separate tasks. First, working groups within
the MENRS would establish formal procedures for information flows between the central
ministries (Finance, Planning, and Civil Service) and the relevant MENRS departments. The
objective would be that information on budget execution for all expenditure categories be made
available to decision makers on a quarterly basis. Second, training would be provided to MENRS
staff at all levels to: (i) improve its capacity to provide timely feedback to decision makers
throughout a given budget year regarding budget execution; (ii) analyze executed budget
information in relation to preparing future budgets; and (iii) monitor and analyze operating
expenditures over which the technical ministries have direct control, ensuring that fanding be
available in a timely fashion.
3.36  The project would provide for: (a) seminars and field surveys aimed at (i) preparing
budgetary programming models; and (ii) establishing standard operating procedures and
reorganizing inter-departmental and inter-ministerial communications and information flow
patterns; (b) training of regional and prefecture staff on the use of basic budget models, with
feedback from users; (c) computers and office equipment and supplies; (d) short-term technical
assistance as needed through the medium of working groups and training seminars; and (e)
incremental operating costs.
(d) Consolidation of the Ministerial Restructuring Component (base cost US$1.6
million equivalent)
3.37  Objectives and Scope.  In 1992, the MENRS developed plans to consolidate a
restructuring plan. The aim of this plan was to focus decision-making and resource allocation
around teaching and learning processes. This meant placing greater control and decision-making
power closer to the school level through region-based decentralization, with a view to managing
scarce resources in a manner consistent with national development priorities. Emphasis was



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                   19
placed on exploiting new sources of information about the education system, establishing new
information flow procedures both laterally and horizontally within the ministry, and improving the
work methods and practices of ministerial staff at all levels. To date, this plan has been only
partially implemented due to the disruptions of the last two years.
3.38  The project would finance medium-term  technical assistance to help the MENRS
consolidate the gains from its restructuring in terms of defining specific priorities and objectives
for each operational unit, establishing position descriptions and work programs for all personnel,
and creating operating and information flow procedures. Special attention would be given to
functions which directly support the teaching and learning process. To this end, training would be
provided to help inspectors and pedagogic counselors develop a new role in support of the
instructional leadership function of school directors. Training seminars would be held for all
school directors to help them understand this new role and provide feedback about the most
appropriate ways in which it can be strengthened. Information gathered in the context of the
Quality Schools Initiative and the information systems component would be integrated into this
process.
3.39  With regards to the General Directorate of Educational Planning and the other MENRS
departments, the current project would, through budget targets and annual budget reviews, ensure
a more rational allocation of resources in response to priority needs. Individual components of
the project would be managed by the various operational directorates (primary education, lower-
secondary education, etc.) as appropriate under the general supervision of a new management
entity, the MENRS Steering Committee.
3.40  The MENRS Steering Committee was established to oversee and support implementation
of the Education Rehabilitation Project, but it has already evolved into a role as the cornerstone of
the ministry's efforts to consolidate its proposed restructuring. For the first time, this committee
brings together key departmental directors as a decision-making body, laying the foundation for
development of real management capacity and functions, including meaningful delegation of
responsibility within the context of a coherent policy framework. The Steering Committee has
been meeting regularly throughout the project preparation process, and collaborated primarily
with the Ministries of Plan and Finance to develop a Letter of Education Sector Policy. The
Steering Committee would coordinate the move within the sector toward decentralization,
including the establishment of a decentralized Education Support Fund. All terms of reference
developed under this project emphasize the need to provide the Steering Committee with timely
feedback on implementation, as well as the need to communicate the project's objectives and the
strategy defined to achieve those objectives to all staff of the MENRS.
3.41  Based on the above process of ministerial restructuring, as well as the initial findings of the
Quality Schools Initiative, the project would provide for: (a) periodic yearly training seminars for
all school directors, pedagogic counselors, inspectors, and teacher trainers; approximately 3,500
staff would be trained under the component; (b) training of the Examinations Directorate staff to
provide it with broader test construction skills, and to expand its role to include feedback to
teachers and directors about student learning at all levels; this would require development of
sampling capacity; (c) short-term technical assistance, including training specialists to assist the
relevant units to define training programs; (d) computers, office equipment and vehicles; (e) travel



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                 20
expenses for participants in the training programs and (f) a limited number of study visits to allow
the Togolese responsible for program design to benefit from similar experiences in neighboring
countries.
C. Project Costs and Financing
3.42  The project's estimated total cost over a five-year period is US$46.6 million (including
taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange component of US$15.9 million (35 percent). Base
costs are estimated at US$42.4 million (90 percent) and contingencies at US$4.2 million (10
percent of base costs). The project would be financed by an IDA Credit of US$36.6 million
equivalent, representing 80 percent of total project costs, net of taxes and duties.  The
Government's contribution is estimated at US$5.9 million equivalent (13 percent) of which
US$0.8 million equivalent represent taxes and duties. The communities' contribution is estimated
at US$4.1 million equivalent (9 percent). Physical contingencies were estimated at 10 percent for
goods and works. Price contingencies for foreign costs were estimated at 2.6 percent. Price
contingencies for local expenditures were estimated at 10 percent and 7 percent for 1996 and
1997, respectively, and 5.0 percent for the period 1998 to 2001. A detailed breakdown of costs is
presented in Annex VIII. Tables 3.1 and 3.2 summarize the project costs by components and the
financing plan by expenditure category.
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs by Components
(In US$ million, including contingencies, taxes and duties)
Components                    IDA    Government   Beneficiary   Total   IDA as %
of Total
A. Development of Better      23.7        0.8         4.1        28.6       83%
Schools
B. Development of Better      12.5        5.1                    17.6       71%
System Management
C. Refinding of PPF            0.4                                0.4       100%
Total              36.6       5.9          4.1       46.6       79%



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                  21
Table 3.2: Summary of Financing Plan by Expenditure Category
(in US$ million, including contingencies, taxes and duties)
Expenditure Category          IDA    Government  Beneficiary   Total   IDA as %
of Total
Civil Works                     7.3       0.8                     8.1        90%
Goods                           0.9       0.0                     0.9        99%
Textbooks                      10.8       0.0          4.1        14.9       73%
Consultant Services & Studies   4.5                               4.5        100%
Training                        3.1                               3.1        100%
AuxiliaryPrimaryTeachers'       8.7       5.1                     13.8       63%
Salaries
Operating Cost                  0.9       0.0                     0.9        99%
Refunding of PPF                0.4                                0.4       100%
Total              36.6       5.9          4.1       46.6        79%
3.43  Recurrent cost implications. The major recurrent cost associated with the project will
be auxiliary teachers' salaries.  As explained in paragraphs 3.25-3.29, the project makes
comprehensive arrangements to ensure the availability of stable sources of financing for salaries
compatible with Government's overall resource outlook. Other recurrent costs generated by
project investments have three implications.  The first recurrent cost implication of project
investments is the appropriate maintenance of textbook supplies. While IDA would finance the
initial stocks of textbooks for lower secondary schools, there would be recurrent costs associated
with maintaining a 1:2 textbook/student ratio over the life of the project, an estimated amount of
CFAF 746 million (US$1.4 million equivalent) over five years. This amount would be provided
for partly through textbook rentals and communities' contribution towards the textbook
replacement and renewal. Government would also provide a separate budget line for renewal of
primary textbooks, and would include this cost in its annual budget provisions. The second
recurrent cost implication relates to the continued support for implementing the pedagogical
practices developed under the Quality Schools Initiative that provide for better and more
effective schools. These innovations support the development of mechanisms for building the
capacity of school-level actors to organize and manage school programs effectively, thus
developing a better sense of ownership and commitment to school quality and efficiency. This, in
turn, would result in improved student learning and overall increases in efficiency. The initial cost
of these activities will be financed by the project, then their sustainability would require further
support from the Government and school resources. The third recurrent cost implication relates
to the cost of upkeep and maintenance of school infrastructure.  The cost for regularly
maintaining the classrooms replaced and rehabilitated under the project is estimated at CFAF 45.0
million over five years; which would be shared by communities through labor contribution as well
as Government through the provision of materials.



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                 22
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
4.1   The project was prepared with a PPF advance. Activities carried out to support project
preparation included: (a) a survey of best practices linked to the Quality Schools Initiatives
component to strengthen school-level instructional management; (b) a program to restructure the
Ministry of Education; (c) identification of activities to be undertaken to develop a school
mapping capacity; (d) studies on the management of the proposed decentralized Education
Support Fund; (e) a mission to select school sites for rehabilitation and construction and
completion of a cahier des charges to this effect; (f) production of two statistical yearbooks
(1992 and 1993); (g) preparation of an implementation manual; (h) seminars for the textbook and
school quality initiatives; and (i) training of ministry personnel in the use of a budget model for
budget preparation and monitoring.
4.2   During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will adopt an action plan with
a timetable, satisfactory to IDA, not later than March 31, 1996, describing a program of actions
and measures necessary to the creating of a decentralized Education Support Fund and implement
promptly the action plan. The adoption of a Project Implementation Manual, satisfactory to IDA,
outlining the procurement, disbursement and other implementation arrangements for the project,
including the operational guidelines for textbook loan and maintenance at the primary school level
and for textbook rental and replacement at the lower-secondary school level, and signed contracts
for the consultants whose services are required during the first twelve months after the Effective
Date are conditions of effectiveness.
B. Project Coordination and Management
4.3   Within MENRS the Steering Committee described in paras. 2.26 and 2.27 would have
responsibility for monitoring project implementation and for providing feedback and support to
responsible MENRS staff to facilitate timely project implementation. In addition, an
interministerial committee is charged  with the broader dialogue regarding the links between
education and economic development. The primary mandate of the Steering Committee would be
problem solving; its role is to act quickly and effectively to facilitate project implementation and
ensure that problems are discussed and addressed in a timely manner. It is also responsible for
monitoring and evaluating the transfer of technical capacity from the advisors provided under the
project to the staff of the MENRS.  The Committee, which was created during project
preparation, is chaired by the Minister and includes the Secretary-General, the Director-General
of Planning, the Directors of Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary Schooling, the Director of
Examinations, the Director-General of Administration and Finance, the Permanent Secretary of
the Higher Council on Education, and the project coordinator.
4.4   IDA-specific implementation matters, such as procurement, disbursements and project
accounting, would be handled by the Division for Financial Affairs (DAF) of the DGPE, under the
general supervision of the project coordinator. The DAF would benefit from computer upgrades
in order to use budgetary management software. The DAF personnel would receive training in
the use of this software prior to project effectiveness. The DAF is adequately staffed and an



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                  23
accountant has been appointed to provide assistance in the setting up of proper accounts and
training, where needed, to ensure the efficient management of the accounts. Line agencies with
responsibility for project component implementation are shown in Annex IX.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.5   The monitoring and evaluation of program performance, including investments and
policies, would be carried out by the implementing units of the MENRS over the life of the
project, with the Steering Committee playing a coordinating role. The supervision process would
include representation of all stakeholders involved in the sector as well as beneficiary assessments.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the Steering Committee, in its project
coordination role, will meet the following requirements: (a) undertake with IDA not later than
November 30, 1996 and, thereafter, not later than November 30 of each subsequent year, a joint
annual review of the project to exchange views generally on the progress achieved in the carrying
out of the project and on the performance by the Borrower, in particular: (i) the status of
disbursement and procurement performance under the project; (ii) progress in the execution and
management of the civil works; (iii) the effectiveness of technical assistance, the implementation
of training activities and the performance of trained staff, (iv) the establishment of processes to
improve student learning and teaching; (v) the textbook procurement and distribution system, and
the textbook maintenance system; (vi) annual work program; and (vii) reporting, accounting, and
auditing performance; (b) prepare and submit to IDA, not later than four weeks before the
scheduled date of the annual reviews, a report of project activities of such scope and in such detail
as IDA may request; and (c) prepare and furnish to IDA not later than six months after the
Closing Date a plan for the future operation of the project. Key monitoring indicators based on
the Government's program are detailed in Annex X. Training strategies to be implemented under
the project are described in Annex V. The details of IDA's supervision plan, including the annual
and mid-term reviews, are provided in Annex XI.
D. Implementation Schedule
4.6  The project would be implemented over a five-year period (1995-2000), with the IDA
Credit disbursed correspondingly. The implementation period has been selected to respond to the
immediate needs to halt further degradation of the sector, while at the same time prioritizing
areas of intervention commensurate with the existing capacity in the country. This is consistent
with the approach in education sector development agreed between Government and IDA. The
proposed project is designed to jump-start the sector by ensuring availability of teachers,
teaching materials, and classrooms and by strengthening institutional capacity conducive to
longer-term reform. The framework for implementing project activities and the basis for planning
the physical aspects of project implementation are provided in Annex XII.
E. Procurement
4.7   Procurement under the project would cover the cost of (i) civil works (US$8.1 million) for
the construction/rehabilitation of primary school classrooms and book storage facilities; (ii)
contracts for textbooks and teachers' guides for primary and lower secondary schools (US$14.9
million) and equipment and vehicles for the use of the implementing agency (US$0.8 million); and



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                                           24
(iii) consultant services, including project management and training (US$7.6 million). The project
elements, estimated costs and proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.1
below. All contracts to be financed by IDA would follow procedures in accordance with the
Bank's procurement Guidelines under IDA Credits and, in the case of consultant services, with
the Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Standard documents
would be used throughout the project. ICB procurement would be based on Bank standard bid
documents and NCB procurement on simplified standard bid documents subject to previous Bank'
mandatory review.
Table 4.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(USS million, including contingencies, taxes and duties)
Procurement Method
Total
PROJECT ELEMENT                                        ICB       NCB       Other     NIF      Cost
1. WORKS                                                          8.1                          8.1
(7.3)                       (7.3)
l 2. GOODS
(a) Equipment and Vehicles                           0.8                  0.1                0.9
(0.8)               (0.1)              (0.9)
(b) Textbooks                                        10.8                (0.0)at    4.1     14.9
(10.8)               (0.0)             (10.8)
3. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND STUDIES
(a) Project Preparation and Implementation                                  3.6               3.6
(3.6)             (3.6)
(b) Institutional Development                                               0.9               0.9
(0.9)             (0.9)
4. TRAINING
(a) Training Abroad                                                        0.1                0.1
(0.1)             (0.1)
(b) Local Training                                                          3.0               3.0
(3.0)             (3.0)
5. MISCELLANEOUS
(b) Auxiliary Teachers' Salaries                                           13.8               13.8
(8.7)             (8.7)
(c) Operating Costs                                                        0.9                0.9
(0.9)             (0.9)
(d) PPF Refinancing                                                        0.4                0.4
(0.4)             (0-4)
TOTAL:    11.6         &I        22.8     4.1      46.6
IDA:    (11.6)     (73)      (17.7)     -       (36.6)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA, net of taxes and duties. Totals may not add up due to rounding
NIF = Not IDA-Financed
Note: Amounts less than US$0.05 million equivalent are represented by "0.0".
a/ Includes secondary school level textbook delivery which will be carried out through LIMUSCO (Libraire des mutuelles scolaires), a school
coopeative bookstore, up to an agegate amount of USS12,000 equivale.
4.8     Procurement of Works.  The civil works program  totaling the aggregate amount of
US$8.1 million equivalent includes the construction of 360 classrooms, the rehabilitation of 440
classrooms, and the construction of book storage facilities. Given the small size and scattered
nature of the construction and rehabilitation works (mostly located in remote areas), the contracts
would be of little interest to foreign contractors and would therefore be procured under the NCB
method of procurement. In addition, local contractors with the involvement of communities, have
the capacity to carry out the works. Foreign contractors would not be precluded from bidding in
NCB. The maximum amount per contract is expected to be less than $200,000. Bidding
documents for works would be prepared using the Bank's standard bidding document for works
which would be submitted to IDA for review and approval. Local procedures are based on a



Education Rehabilitation Project                                              25
procurement Code acceptable to the Bank and the local Constitution recognizes international
agreements as having higher authority than the Togolese laws. Waivers from the law would
include local advertising, public bid opening, clearly defined evaluation criteria, non-exclusion of
foreign bidders and no preference to domestic contractors. A supplementary letter to record
waivers was discussed and agreed during negotiations.
4.9   Procurement of Goods. Procurement of goods would be carried out as follows:
(a)   Textbooks Provision and Delivery: Procurement of primary and lower secondary
school textbooks and teachers'guides and delivery of primary textbooks by the suppliers for an
aggregate amount of US$10.8 million equivalent, would be carried out by International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance to Bank procurement Guidelines. Bank
standard bidding documents for the procurement of textbooks would be used throughout.
Bidders would be allowed to bid for one or more packages.  Concerning the reprinting of the
French and Mathematics titles for primary level textbooks and teachers' guides, the Government
would make arrangements with the original publishers to allow for the reprinting of these titles
through ICB since the copyrights were granted, under the Educational Improvement Project
(Cr. 1568-TO), to private publishers until year 1999 for French and 2000 for Mathematics titles.
The Sciences books would be purchased through ICB. Delivery of primary schools textbooks and
teachers'guides would be integrated in the book purchase contract. For the selection of the lower
secondary textbooks and teachers'  guides Publishers would be invited through a notice
advertised internationally to submit titles. The titles selected would be divided into packages by
subject and purchased through ICB. Services for the delivery of lower secondary textbooks and
teachers' guides totaling US$12,000 equivalent would be carried out through direct contracting
by LIMUSCO/MENRS.
(b)   Vehicles and Equipment:  Procurement of vehicles, computers, and office
equipment under separate packages for an aggregate amount of US$0.8 million equivalent, would
be carried out by ICB procedures. Locally manufactured goods, if any, would receive a
preference in bid evaluation in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines (January 1995).
National shopping up to an aggregate of US$50,000, or IAPSO, up to an aggregate of
US$50,000, may be used for purchases of individual vehicles or office equipment needed for the
project.
4.10  Consultant Services. Consultants for management, architectural, procurement, auditing
and various sectoral and technical services, including training, totaling the aggregate amount of
US$7.6 million equivalent, would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Terms of reference for consultants would include process
of transfer of skills and interaction with local personnel to ensure their commitment to on-the-job
training and transfer of knowledge to nationals. A summary of technical assistance requirements
and studies to be carried out by the project is provided in Annex XII. The supervision and
follow-up of the classroom construction and rehabilitation program would be contracted to the
private sector in view of the scope of the works and in order to implement an accelerated
construction schedule. The MENRS would prepare bidding documents and handle procurement
procedures. A verification firm would conduct an a posteriori review of procurement procedures
linked to the construction and rehabilitation component, and other components as needed.



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                26
4.11. Miscellaneous. Consumables, auxiliary teachers salaries, supervision and local training
allowances, equipment and vehicles maintenance costs, fuel, etc. would be acquired and paid for
following regular government procedures defined in the Implementation Manual to be approved
by IDA before project effectiveness.
4.12 Procurement Management. The Directorate for Education Planning (DGPE) has
already gained considerable experience managing procurement matters under the Educational
Improvement Project. In addition to training provided under the Educational Improvement
Project, the Bank has provided further training in procurement procedures during project
preparation. The DGPE would report bid evaluations and publish all contract awards; the project
coordinator would review procurement progress in semi-annual reports to IDA. A verification
firn would conduct an a posteriori review of procurement procedures linked to the construction
and rehabilitation component, and other components as needed.
4.13  Standard processing time for the various procurement steps, in particular, bid evaluation
and contract signing, is provided in Table 4.2. It is estimated that the initial preparation of
standard NCB and Bank standard ICB bidding documents would take 8-16 weeks. Once these
standard bidding documents have been approved by the Bank, they may be used as models for
other future procurement under NCB and ICB. To this end, it is expected that time for preparing
subsequent standard bidding documents would be reduced. The Government has submitted to
IDA the draft bidding documents for all works to be procured through NCB during the first year
of the project.
Table 4.2: Maximum Period of Time in Weeks
Activities                                     NCB         ICB
Prepare bidding documents                       8-16       8-16
Review bidding documents                        2-3        2-3
Revise bidding documents                        1-2         1-2
Prepare bids                                    4-6         6-8
Bid evaluation                                  1-2         1-2
Propose contract award                          1-2         1-2
Review of contract award decision by IDA         -          1-2
Signature of contract                           2-4        2-4
19-35      22-39
4.14  Procurement Schedule. The schedule of major procurement activities is provided in the
annexed Implementation and Disbursement Schedule (Annexes XII and XLII). As a condition
of effectiveness, the Government will submit bidding documents, acceptable to IDA, for the
goods scheduled to be procured during the first twelve months after the Effective Date.
4.15  Review by IDA. IDA-financed contracts for works and goods above a threshold of
US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process
would cover about 80 percent of the total value procured by ICB and NCB (100 percent ICB;
about 50 percent NCB). Selective post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                27
would apply to about one out of three contracts. Draft standard bidding documents for NCB
would be reviewed by and agreed upon with IDA. All contracts for consultant and training
services estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more with firm(s) selected
competitively and the equivalent of US$50,000 or more with individual consultants, would
require prior review by IDA. All terms of reference and all single-source contracts regardless of
the value would be subject to prior review by IDA.
F. Disbursements
4.16  The project is expected to be completed over a five year period, with the IDA Credit
disbursed over six years by June 30, 2001, according to the Categories shown in Table 4.3. The
estimated project disbursement profiles are shown in Annex Xm.
4.17  Special Account. To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods
and services, the Government would open a Special Account in a commercial bank to cover part
of IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by the DAF of the DGPE.
The authorized allocation for the Special Account would be US$500,000.; IDA would make an
initial deposit of 50 percent of that amount from the proposed credit immediately upon credit
effectiveness and the remaining balance will be made available when the project implementation
has fully taken off. Replenishment applications would be submitted monthly and would be fully
documented except for contracts of US$100,000 equivalent for civil works, goods and services
(consultant firms) and US$50,000 for individual consultants which can be reimbursed on the basis
of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Replenishment applications would be accompanied by
bank statements and reconciliation statements. All documentation for SOEs would be retained for
review by visiting supervision missions or the external auditors. Withdrawal applications would be
prepared by DAC. All payments below US$50,000 equivalent must be made from the Special
Account. Payments above this threshold may be made by direct payments or special commitments.
4.18  Project Account. The Government will establish a Project Account in a commercial bank
for local matching funds. All local matching funds and most IDA eligible expenditures paid in
local currency would be disbursed from the Project Account. Any advances to project entities will
be from the Project Account. IDA eligible expenditures disbursed in local currency from the
Project Account would be replenished from the Special Account as required. During negotiations
the Government gave assurances that it will deposit into the Project Account promptly before
each calendar quarter starting after the Effective Date, sufficient funds to pay the Borrower's
contribution to the financing of the project required for such calendar quarter, as estimated. by the
Borrower in agreement with IDA. A condition of effectiveness would be that the Government
has opened the Project Account and has deposited the initial deposit in an amount in CFA francs
equivalent to US$250,000.
4.19  Auxiliary Teachers' Salaries. To permit the timely payment of salaries to auxiliary
teachers, the following disbursement procedures have been agreed during negotiations: (a) at first,
a withdrawal application will be submitted to the Africa Disbursement Division covering salaries
to auxiliary teachers for a three-month period. The funds will be deposited into a separate
account to be opened at a commercial bank in Lome; (b) after salaries for a period of two months
have been paid to auxiliary teachers, an external auditor, approved by IDA, will review the



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                                 28
payments made against the consolidated auxiliary teacher payrolls on a nominal basis and confirm
that all payments made were eligible under the project; and (c) the DAF wili prepare an
application and summary sheet for the total amount spent on auxiliary teachers salaries financed
by IDA. This submission would include the external auditor's original confirmation.
Table 4.3: Withdrawal of Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Categosy                Anounts of the Credit Alloaed  Percent of Expenditures to be
(in USS million equivalevt)     fiunced
(nct oftaxes & duties)
1. CIVIL WORKS                                     6.5         100% of foreip expenditurs;
90% of local expenditures
2. EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                          0.7          100% of foreign expenditures;
80% of local expenditures
3. TEXTBOOKS                                      10.0          100% of foreign expendite;
90% of local expenditures
4. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND TRAINING                6.3                    100%
5. OPERATING COSTS'                                1.0                    95%
6. AUXILIARYTEACHERS'SALARIES                      8.7          S0% until December 31, 1998;
40% therealler
7. REFINANCING OF PPF                              0.4                    100%
S. UNALLOCATED                                     3.0
TOTAL:               36.6
'Includes aninistrative and rumnning cods such as per dienms trvel cods, office supplies, fueL equipment and vehicle maintenance
costs. Since the total anount of opeating cou to be funned is .nalL it will be disbursed at a constant proportion over a 5 year
period
G. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
4.20   Auditing.  The DAF of the DGPE would maintain accounts to record all project
expenditures, commitments and reimbursements in accordance with accepted accounting
principles. Project accounts, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. The audit reports would be submitted to IDA within three months following the end of each
fiscal year. The Special Account would be audited every six months. The Government would
submit to IDA annual audit reports within six months of the end of the fiscal year; and semi-
annual audit reports of the Statement of Expenses (SOEs) within three months after the end of
each audit period and separate quarterly audits for auxiliary teacher salaries. The appointment of
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness. Overdue audits
would be considered grounds for suspension of disbursements under the credit.
4.21   Mid-Term  Review. A brief description of the review and criteria to be used to evaluate
the progress of each project component are set out in Annex XIV. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it will: (i) organize a joint mid-term review, not later than 30
months after the Effective Date, to exchange views generally on the progress achieved in project
implementation, and in particular on the status of disbursement and procurement performance



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                 29
under the project; and (ii) as part of the mid-term review, adopt an action plan, satisfactory to
IDA, based on and having due regard to the recommendations of the said review, and promptly
thereafter, implement such plan.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1   The main benefits of the proposed project would be improved education quality and
access as a result of a more adequate supply of primary school teachers, rebuilding of
infrastructure badly damaged by recent vandalism and neglect, and greater availability of
pedagogic materials at the primary and secondary school levels. The institutional capacity building
carried out under the project will be an essential step for ensuring the presence of teachers in
classrooms and for reversing declining enrollment trends. The establishment of consultative
regional school boards and a region-based Education Support Fund in parallel with regional non-
civil service teaching bodies, will present the potential for a significant reduction in unit salary
costs as well as a corresponding opportunity for increasing the number of teachers in place and
for reallocating the sectoral budget in favor of needed non-salary operating expenditures.
B. Risks and Measures to Address Them
5.2   The main risks of the project are the politically unstable environment which could
significantly increase the likelihood of implementation delays and difficulties in assuring adequate
budgetary resources to finance Government's counterpart contribution including payment of
auxiliary teachers. Other risks to achievement of project objectives are Government's capacity to
address broad institutional, finance and political issues critical to the success of the refonn
program and low sectoral capacity to oversee the Quality Schools Initiative on an ongoing basis.
The risks presented by the politically unstable environment are addressed to some extent in
project design, with an emphasis on working teams supported by coordinated short-tern
interventions of extemal expertise. Budgetary issues are addressed through up-front agreement
on budget targets that are included in Goverrnent's Letter of Education Sector Policy and that
will be monitored through a planned Public Expenditure Review, and annual budget reviews. The
Government's commitment to address institutional capacity issues has been expressed through its
Letter of Education Sector Policy which includes specific institutional reform targets; these would
be closely monitored throughout project implementation. The issue of low sectoral capacity to
oversee the Quality Schools Initiative would be addressed through the use of short-term
consultancies to provide training and research experience to Ministry and University of Benin
personnel, who would in tum provide training to inspectors and pedagogic counselors on an
ongoing basis.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   During negotiations, the Governent gave assurances that it will:
(a)  deposit into the Project Account, promptly before each calendar quarter starting
after the Effective Date, sufficient funds to pay the Borrower's contribution to the
financing of the project required for such calendar quarter, as estimated by the
Borrower in agreement with IDA (para. 4.18);



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                   30
(b) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to IDA, and furnish to IDA not later
than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed between
the Borrower and IDA, a plan for the future operation of the project; afford IDA a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the plan for the
future operation of the project; and carry out the plan for the future operation of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
practices, taking into account IDA's comments (para.4.5 (c));
(c)  redeploy teaching personnel at the secondary school level in accordance with the
objectives and timetable set forth in the Government's strategy in the education
sector laid out in the Letter of Education Sector Policy (para.3.28);
(d)  issue an Arrete acceptable to IDA not later than March 31, 1996, for the
establishment and operation of a textbook loan and decentralized rental mechanism
for primary and secondary school students respectively, which shall include, inter
alia, provisions relating to management responsibilities, reporting and audit
requirements (para. 3.12);
(e)  undertake with IDA not later than November 30, 1996 and, thereafter, not later than
November 30 of each subsequent year, a joint annual review of the project (or, as
the case may be, not later than 30 months after the Effective Date, a mid-term
review), to exchange views generally on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the project and on the performance by the Borrower, in particular: (i) the status of
disbursement and procurement performance under the project; (ii) progress in the
execution and management of the civil works; (iii) the effectiveness of the technical
assistance, the implementation of training activities and the performance of trained
staff, (iv) the establishment of processes to improve student learning and teaching;
(v) the textbook procurement and distribution system, and the textbook maintenance
system; (vi) annual work program; and (vii) reporting, accounting, and auditing
performance (paras. 4.5 (a) and 4.21);
(f)  prepare and submit to IDA, not later than four weeks before the scheduled date of
the annual reviews, a report of project activities of such scope and in such detail as
IDA may request (para. 4.5 (b));
(g)  as part of the mid-term review, adopt an action plan, satisfactory to IDA, based on
and having due regard to the recommendations of the said review, and promptly
thereafter, implement such plan (para. 4.21); and
(h)  adopt an action plan with a timetable, satisfactory to IDA, not later than March 31,
1996, describing a program of actions and measures necessary to the creating of a
decentralized Education Support Fund and implement promptly the action plan
(para. 4.2).



Education Rehabilitation Project                                                 31
6.2.  As conditions of effectiveness, the Government will have:
(a)  adopted a Project Implementation Manual, satisfactory to IDA, outlining the
procurement, disbursement and other implementation arrangements for the project
including the operational guidelines for textbook loan and maintenance at the
primary school level and for textbook rental and replacement at the lower-secondary
school level (para. 4.2);
(b)  employed independent auditors acceptable to IDA (para. 4.20);
(c)  prepared and furnished to IDA bidding documents, satisfactory to IDA, for the
goods scheduled to be procured during the first twelve months after the Effective
Date (para. 4.14);
(d)  employed the consultants whose services are required during the first twelve months
after the Effective Date (para. 4.2); and
(e)  opened the Project Account and has deposited therein the initial deposit in an
amount in CFA francs equivalent to US$250,000 (para. 4.18).
6.3   Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 23.3 million (US$36.6 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Togo on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



32
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
FLOW CHART OF THE FORMAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
I Pre-Scolaire
Cours Preparatoire I
Cours Preparatoire 2
ler Detr*                     Cours Elementaire I
Cours Elinenlaire 2
Cours Moyen I
Cours Moven 2
| Examen du C.E.P.D. |
Enseignement General
6 eme
Cycle d'obsesvation
5 eme                                          (0) Ens. Techn.
2eme Deire                4ee_       _____._|
4 ftme
Cycle d'orientation                     2
13 Cfel                                        3
Exarnen du B.E.P.C.                         Exaen du CAP
Con. d'acces en Seconde
Praluere |           ~Premnuer|2
3ime Deer6
lExamnen lere partic du Baccalaurdat
Tenninale                      Teriii
Examnen du BACCALAUJREAT
4cme Dezr6                UNIVERSrIE DU BENIN (nbs d'anntes d'tudes)
(4) Droit          (5) ESA
(4) Sci. Eco.   I   (4) INSE
(4) Sciences       (3) =UT Santt
(4) Lettres        (3) ENAM
(7) Medecine  :   (3) ENS
(3-5) ENSI        (3-5) Univ. Be6nin



33
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Evolution of Education Budget: 1992-1995
in thousands of CFA francs
1992           1993           1994            1995
Enseignement general (MENRS)
(y compris enseignement confessionnel)       17.661.506       16.860.36     18.072.820      18.741.876
Enseignement technique (METFP)                 696.531         410.354         963.889       1.012.802
Universite du Benin a/                        6.750.000      6.750.000       6.750.000       6.868.914
Investissement at                             1.200.000      1.200.000       1.200.000      1.200.000
Total                                        26.308.037     25i220670       26.986.709      27.823.S92
Budgetde fonctionnement -Total               93.636.324     72.960.402     121.116.031     149.493.197
% Education                                   28%            35%             22%             19%
a/ Les chiffres pour l'UB et les investissements pour la periode 1992-94 representent des estimations.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
Current Budget, 1995
in thousands of CFA Francs
Education Primaire                         Personnel&          Materiel          Total
Bourses
Directiondu lerdegre                       9.165.819          50.000          9.215.819
Dep. communes pers. I er degre             202.020              -             202.020
Portion des charges Diverses               283.284            197.856         481.140
Programme d'Emploi et Formation            420.000              -             420.000
Enseignement confessionnel                 1.200.000            -             1.200.000
Sous-Total                              11.271.123         247.856         11.518.979
Education Secondaire (includ.Form. Prof.)
Direction du 2e degre                      4.908.639          50.000          4.958.639
Dep. communes pers. 2e degre                256.620             -             256.620
Ecole Normale Superieure                    149.984           26.000           175.984
Direction du 3e degre                      1.470.560          32.000          1.502.560
Dep. communes pers. 3e degre                441.360             -             441.360
Bourses 2e & 3e degres                      248.259             -             248.259
Moyenne des charges variees                 190.931           168.544         359.475
Enseignement confessionnel                 300.000              -             300.000
Formation professionnelle                   734.646          278.156          1.012.802
CNPP                                       200.000           100.000          300.000
Sous-Total                               8.900.799         654.900         9.555.699
Enseivnement Superieur
Subvention A 1'Universite                  2.300.000         1.400.000       3.700.000
Bourses                                    3.168.914                         3.168.914
Sous-Total                               5.468.914         1.400.000       6.868.914
Total des Couits d'operation            26.623.592                         26.623.592
Total Education                         52.264.428        2302.756         54.567.184
Conformement au budget du Gouvernement (avril 1995), les depenses non-salariales s'elevent A 1.200.000



35                                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Pourcentage pour l'Education = 19.2% du total du budget national
%  du budge (investissements non compris)
Education
- Primaire                                       41.2%
- Secondaire (inclu. Form. Prof.)                34.2%
- Superieure                                     24.6%
Depenses non-salariales en tant que % des charges totales de fonctionnement
(les bourses etant traitees comme salaires))
- Primaire                                       2.2 %
- Secondaire                                     6.9 %
- Superieure                                     20.3 %
- Total d'ensemble pour le Secteur de l'Education o  12.7%
Repartition du Budget de I'Enseignement Superieur
- Operat. Universite du Benin                    53.9%
- Bourses Europe                                 21.0%
- Bourses Universite du Benin                    22.8%
- Bourses Afrique                                2.3%
Total                                        100%



36
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
EVOLUTION OF STUDENTS AND REPETITION
IN PRIMARY AND LOWER SECONDARY EDUCATION
PERIOD                    PRIMARY                             LOWER SECONDARY
No. of Students         Repetition         No. of Students       Repetition
Total    Females    Total    Females    Total    Females   Total   Females
1984-85    454,209    175,276    166,074    66,863     74,415    199,085   24,800    6,528
1985-86    462,864    177,373    161,202    63,755     79,874    20,032   23,859    5,984
1986-87    511,009    195,523    177,368    70,120    78,071      19,778   24,704    6,644
1987-88    527,853    203,745    163,137    65,358    93,911      24,405   23,757    6,235
1988-89    569,388    220,652    211,183    84,126      87558     22,332   31,508    8,752
1989-90    597,503    234,729    200,831    81,385    101,124    27,607   21,412    5,739
1990-91    646,962    255,642    231,466    93,736    97,426    26,386   31,751    9,174
1991-92    652,548    260,853    241,592    98,313    98,331      26,416   23,951    7,872
1992-93 *  212,646    83,830      80,304    32,036    34,869      9,977     6,391     1,535
1993-94    663,126    265,252    304,742    122,630    107,364    29,490   39,593    10,980
* Period of National Strike



37                            ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
DRAFT LETTER OF EDUCATION SECTOR POLICY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
Ministry of Planning
Directorate of Planning
and Development
Department of Planning
Coordination
BP 1667 Tel: 21.50.10/21.42.15
Lome, Togo
The Director                                           Lom  L. 
Western Africa Department (AF4)
World Bank
c/o World Bank Resident Representative in Lome, Togo
Dear Sir:
1. Within the framework of a global development strategy consistent with its macroeconomic and
sector policy, the Togolese Government adopted an Education and Training Sector Policy
Statement on May 12, 1993. The strategy to be implemented emphasizes primary education and is
geared to improving the quality of the instruction provided.
Within the spirit of the objectives and priorities set down in its Sector Policy Statement, the
Government now transmits this updated Policy Letter reaffirming its resolve to provide the
education sector with the necessary resources to enable it to take its proper place in Togo's human
resource development process.
PRESENT SITUATION
2. Since 1975, the Togolese Government has been making major efforts within the framework of
education reform to adapt the school system to the country's current situation and to make it truly
democratic and efficient. However, given the sector's structural, organizational and financial
difficulties, it has not been possible for all of the goals of the refonn process to be attained.
In the mid-eighties, a combination of rapidly escalating school enrollments and a serious
decline in Togo's economic and financial situation plunged the education sector into a crisis that the



38                             ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 7
sociopolitical circumstances of recent years have exacerbated, seriously compromising the quality
of education. The net primary enrollment rate, which was up to an acceptable level of 71 % by 1980
thanks to the reforms by then in place, has today dropped to 61.4%.
3. The Government made a significant effort to increase education financing during a period of
widespread economic crisis. In 1988-89, education financing was up to CFAF 22.2 billion from
12.5 billion in 1979-80. However, this positive trend could not be maintained because of the
economic constraints caused by the socio-economic crisis which had started in 1970. Also, the
budgetary restrictions linked to the Structural Adjustment Programs since 1982 have resulted in
reducing by 32% the part of the budget earmarked for the education sector, and allocations have
increased at a slower rate than previously and by comparison to the budget as a whole.  Also, the
school system at all levels suffered from annual cuts in the share of the budget allocated to non-
salary operating expenditures, which fell from 13% in 1978 to 6% in 1985-89 and to 1% in 1994-
95. With the serious financial difficulties of 1992-93, education expenditure fell to 18% of overall
current expenditure. The January 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc dealt the final blow to the
education system's weakened finances, pushing up the costs of school supplies and tuition fees,
despite the Government's efforts to mitigate the impact of the devaluation.
4. As a result of the reform of education policies and programs, it became possible to identify the
constraints in terms of infrastructure, human resources, and finances that were standing in the way
of steady progress toward quality education.
5. The inadequate capacity of the schools to accommodate a school-age population that is
constantly growing as demographic pressure increases is one of the factors preventing Togo's
education system from developing satisfactorily. At present, 39% of school-age children are not
attending school; they will never have a chance to do so if this situation continues. To solve this
problem, the rural communities have been setting up more and more schools on their own initiative
each year, a fact that the Government can no longer ignore.
Most of the schools are operating under highly undesirable conditions: (i) buildings that are
only half built or in serious disrepair; (ii) insufficient numbers of desks; (iii) classes with huge
numbers of students (100-150 students per class, particularly at the primary level); (iv) shortage of
teaching materials; (v) teachers with little or no training and little motivation.
6. Because of the civil service hiring freeze ordered by the Government in 1982 as a result of the
economic crisis, the Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research was unable to replace
teachers who had died or retired. At the primary school level, the impact of this hiring freeze was
felt throughout all regions of the country, but it was the rural areas that suffered the most. To cope
with the staff shortage, parents recruited substitute teachers, paying them out of their own meager
funds.  Those teachers thus received non-scale and highly variable wages.  In 1992, the
Government took over the payment of some of these auxiliary teachers, but still at wage levels far
below the civil service pay scale. Most of the auxiliaries are still poorly paid and severely lacking
in motivation. Of this group, 37% are paid by the Government under a job training program, at a
monthly rate of CFAF 25,000, while the rest are paid by parents and local communities at an
average rate varying between CFAF 5,000 and CFAF 8,000. Taking advantage of recent political
movements, the auxiliary teachers have begun to demand that their situation be regularized,
specifically through their admission into the civil service.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 7
But the Government is of the opinion that the admission of auxiliary teachers into the civil
service is no longer feasible, and that a new hiring policy is called for in this area.
Auxiliary teachers are also found at the lower and upper secondary levels, where the same
hiring freeze has created a problem that is less serious but similar to that being experienced at the
primary level. Auxiliary teachers account for 25% of the teaching staff in the lower and upper
secondary schools.
7. In an atmosphere of political change, when various demands are being voiced, the teachers in
this category have become aware of their importance within the system. Their number is
continually growing because of the sector's enormous demands, and today there are 4,950 such
auxiliaries (across the entire system), all of whom are demanding that their situation be regularized,
specifically through admission into the civil service, a movement that is seriously jeopardizing the
school system's normal operation.
8. These constraints are found throughout our country's education system, and are jeopardizing
both its internal and external efficiency.
As in primary education, the problems hampering operation of the system at the lower and
upper secondary levels derive from: (i) the huge numbers of students in the classrooms,
particularly in the large urban areas; (ii) the relatively few permanent teachers in relation to
auxiliaries without status (15% at the lower secondary level and 45% at the upper secondary level);
(iii) the inadequacy of teaching materials and textbooks in the schools; (iv) the lack of scientific
equipment for experiments; (v) the lack of financing for the schools set up by local communities.
At the higher education level, the University of Benin is suffering shortages in the areas of
infrastructure, teaching staff, boarding facilities and research. Suspension of bilateral cooperation
agreements has led to the departure of the expatriates and brought a halt to actions and assistance
under the heading of bilateral cooperation. The result has been the freezing of several ongoing
projects and programs. The various student groups that have come into being over the past few
years are staging strikes and other types of demonstrations to support their demands for increased
scholarships.
NEW SECTOR STRATEGY
9. To cope with all these constraints, and in light of the macroeconomic objectives for 1996-97
and of its Sector Policy Statement adopted in 1993, the Government is committed to implementing
a global education and training strategy based on the following five new points: (i) improving the
internal and external efficiency of the education system, focusing in particular on primary
education; (ii) increasing intake capacity; (iii) improving human resource allocation and utilization;
(iv) strengthening the system's capacity for decentralized management through the establishment of
Regional Directorates of Education; and (v) consolidating the sector's financial position through
allocation of an appropriate level of resources.
10. The Government's sector development policy will emphasize primary education, with a net
enrollment target of 80% of the school-age population in the years 2000-2010.



40                             ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 7
To this end, the Government intends to encourage the private sector to play a more active role
in the development of primary education in general and of the pre-school level in particular, for
which support is already being received from UNICEF.
In addition, the Government will take all necessary action to encourage religious schools to
restructure and develop so that they can play a more active role in the efforts being made in this
field. The Government will continue to provide technical support to the religious and commnunity
schools to improve teacher quality and infrastructure safety, so that the agreed targets may be
attained.
IMPROVEMENT OF EFFICIENCY AND OF INTAKE CAPACITY
11. In the context of improvement of the education system's internal and external efficiency and
increasing of its intake capacity, the Government will take the necessary steps to enable each child
to successfully complete his/her primary education so that he/she will be able to function
harmoniously in the socioeconomic environment. To this end efforts will be made in each level of
education to render them more efficient.
Accordingly, at the Primary level the Government intends to allocate the necessary means to
ensure: (i) provision of textbooks at low cost to students and of teaching materials for teachers;
(ii) enhancement of the status of women by means of girls'education and training; (iii) training and
recruitment of teachers for classes currently without any; (iv) intensification of the pedagogic
supervision of teachers; (v) rehabilitation of school buildings, furnishing them with chairs, boards,
desks: and (vi) improvement of the quality of existing community schools.
For general Secondary Education, the measures to be taken will focus on: (i) improvement of
the student-teacher ratio; (ii) provision of textbooks and teaching materials; (iii) more and better
equipment for the scientific and technical education establishments; (iv) teacher training and
refresher training; and (v) setting up of an effective student and vocational orientation structure at
the school level.
At the Higher Education level, science and technology are opening up new horizons as we
move toward the twenty-first century. Togo is committed to setting up a higher education system
capable of offering training programs of quality and of a competitive level in order to provide
access to the new scientific and technological data. To this end, the Government will make a
diagnostic study of the University of Benin in order to identify the dysfunctions and bottlenecks in
the present structure and programs. The findings and conclusions of this study will open the way
for a true reform of the programs with a view to professionalizing university education so that
graduates will be better equipped and directly employable. The reform will focus essentially on the
following fields: (i) regulation of access to the different areas of higher education; (ii) diversi-
fication of higher education; (iii) development of scientific and research education infrastructures;
(iv) intensification of institutions for training upper middle level personnel (IUTs) to meet the labor
market's immediate needs; (v) establishment of a partnership between industries, the private
institutions and the University of Benin with a view to professionalization of education; and (vi)
pedagogic training of teachers.



41                            ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 7
ADAPTATION OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM TO THE SOCIOECONOMIC
ENVIRONMENT
12. Adaptation of the education system to the socioeconomic environment is an important
component of the sector development policy, so that system graduates will be able to fit easily into
the socioeconomic environment. To accomplish this the Government conmmits itself to: (i) define
and create branches of training in accordance with the needs of the labor market; (ii) develop skills
in students aimed at fostering entrepreneurship and private enterprise; (iii) arouse awareness
arnong students and their parents regarding the needs of the priority sectors of the national
economy; (iv) channel students toward the priority sectors; and (v) intensify practical training in all
fields of education.
BETTER ALLOCATION AND UTILIZATION OF SECTOR HUMAN RESOURCES
13. Since improvement of the quality of education is subject to, among other things, availability of
sufficient teaching staff of adequate caliber, the Government will endeavor to improve the
allocation and utilization of the system's human resources in light of the country's financial position
and the need to reorganize the civil service. The actions envisaged in this connection are the
following:
14. At the primary level. To implement this policy, the Government intends to create a corps of
non-civil service auxiliary public school teachers whose particular status will be defined by
regulatory texts. This policy will make it possible to increase the numbers of teachers to cover
retirements, deaths, and such additional manpower that the sector may need in order to achieve the
80% enrollment rate projected for the period 2000-2010. These auxiliary teachers will be recruited
per post.
At the same time, and to ensure a minimum of stability within the education system (an
essential condition for ensuring the quality of education), the Government will create an auxiliary
teacher corps for personnel at all levels of the system. It will apply to the positions of teachers' aide
[moniteur], primary school teaching assistant [instituteur-adjoint], and lower and upper secondary
school teacher.
15. One of the Government's main concerns is the status of the auxiliary teachers and the financing
of teachers in general. The available budget funds for the next five years are well below what
would be needed to pay the wages of all of the auxiliary teachers. Large-scale expansion of the
system to achieve the objective of providing schooling for at least 80% of school-age children
between now and the period 2000-2010 will only be possible if the unit costs are reduced and if the
donors provide an important financial assistance.  Thus, this strategy will allow to ensure a
minimum of stability for the education system.
16. To this end, the Government responded by creating an Education Support Fund to which the
savings realized as a result of retirement or death will be paid so as to enable the sector to hire new
auxiliary teachers. These savings on the wage bill will make it possible to defray the wages of the
auxiliary teachers, according to the auxiliary teachers'status created for this purpose. The Fund will
be financed both by the sector's internal resources, particularly by a percentage of school fees,
contributions from the Parent Associations and local authorities, and budgetary resources that the



42                            ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 7
Government may mobilize either out of the general budget or in the form of contributions from our
donors and partners in development.
In the medium term it will make it possible to experiment with the establishing of increasingly
decentralized management and financing structures.
17. At the lower and upper secondary levels, the Government plans, to carry out before the end of
1996 a diagnostic study on the use of teaching staff at these two levels in order to assess the extent
to which a combination of the two levels is likely to achieve better performance. In this context,
following an assessment of the needs the teaching staff will be redeployed as soon as possible with
the aim of reducing the number of auxiliary teachers in secondary education in favor of primary
education. Moreover, the Government aims to realize efficiency gains through redeployment of
personnel at the lower and upper secondary levels, imposing a weekly minimum of 21 classroom
hours in the colleges and 18 in the lycees.
18. At the university level. The Government has already eliminated first-year scholarships in favor
of across-the-board university aid.  The diagnostic study will determine which other urgent
methods are likely to enhance sector efficiency.
19. Since the key element of any efficient education system is the quality of the teachers'training,
the Government will upgrade the professional qualifications of the teaching staff in service and will
ensure the training of pedagogic support personnel. Also, auxiliary teachers at all levels will also
be trained in teaching techniques and in action research to improve teaching quality.
An advanced training program for teachers in general will be implemented by means of training
courses and periodic refresher training in particular in specially designated training institutions.
STRENGTHENING OF THE SECTOR'S MANAGEMENT CAPACITY
20. Strengthening of management capacity is an important component of the policy envisioned by
the Government. To ensure sound functioning of the education system, achievement of this
objective calls for establishment of a good mechanism for managing human, financial and material
resources. The Government accordingly envisages a restructuring of the Ministry of Education and
Scientific Research involving decentralization of the system's management and establishment of the
Regional Directorates of Education. This restructuring will be accompanied by the following
actions: special training of the administrative personnel in the new management techniques; setting
up of an adequate mechanism for management of personnel, finances, equipment and infrastructure,
at both central and regional level; periodic organization of internal audits; organization of
monitoring and evaluation of programs/projects in execution in the system; and evaluation of sector
performance by the beneficiaries.
Implementation of a true decentralization policy can contribute to management of the education
system by enabling the territorial authorities (Region, Prefecture, Commune) and the population at
large to organize their own local development, geared to active participation by the local inhabitants
in efforts to improve the quality of education.
To this end it will be necessary to decide on the procedures for transferring capabilities to the
Regional Directorates of Education, to define new functions for those Regional Directorates, and to



43                             ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 7
put in place and upgrade their management capacities. The long-term objective is decentralization
of management of the education system, with the establishment of a corps of regional teachers, with
decentralized management of teaching posts in the region.
However, the regional approach to the education system, i.e. that of decentralization as
necessary, should be progressive, given the scarcity of financial resources and the large volume of
human, material and financial resources this will involve. But in any case this approach can be
implemented only with the support of our development partners.
FINANCING OF THE SECTOR'S STRATEGY
21. The sector's financial position has deteriorated over recent years as a result of the combined
effects of three factors: the impact of the structural adjustment programs, the adjustment of the
exchange rate for the CFA franc, and the sociopolitical crisis.
To resolve the financial crisis besetting the sector, the Government will mobilize real and
potential local resources. This domestic effort will have to be supported by the contributions of
development partners.
22. One of the important steps undertaken by the Government in this connection is establishment of
an Education Support Fund, the resources of which will be formed by the contributions of the State,
development partners, local authorities and private sector together with those of parents through
school fees, the rate of which will be reformulated, harmonized and made generally applicable. In
addition, the savings to be gained from staff leaving the civil service on account of retirement or
death will be paid into the fund. The Fund' s resources will be used at first to pay the salaries of
auxiliary teachers.
23. The Education Support Fund will be created by Presidential Decree issued in Council of
Ministers. This decree will specify the role of the local authorities and how it is to be carried out
taking into account local conditions as well as the opinion of involved Ministries.
24 The Government will undertake efforts to increase substantially the allocations of funds to the
various education levels according to the objectives of its 1994-1997 medium-tern economic
policy. Thus, by the end of the period 1996-98 the education budget will accordingly be back at
the level of the order of 22% of the State budget it had reached in 1991. Capital expenditures in
the education and training sector will be increased during the same period. The Government for its
part undertakes to ensure that the fund is created and, further, to pursue the efforts to improve the
quality of primary and secondary education by increasing the operating budget (exclusive of
salaries), raising it to 20% of personnel expenditures during the period 1996-2001.
Yours sincerely,
Komlavi SEDDOH



44                             ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
TRAINING AND SKILLS TRANSFER
1.    The primary objective of the Education Rehabilitation Project is to help decision makers
at all levels to improve their capacity to reform Togo's education system. The strategy adopted is
to recruit high caliber expertise with a commitment to on-the-job training and the ability to
transfer skills and knowledge to nationals. These objectives are a major focus of the consultant
terms of reference already drafted for technical advisors to be recruited under the project. To
ensure that training and skills transfer receive priority during implementation, several important
actions have been taken:
(a)   The consultant profiles developed for all technical advisor posts emphasize the
importance of training, team building and communication skills. These criteria
would be weighted heavily during the consultant selection process.
(b)   All terms of reference for consultant support outline a proposed process of
interaction between technical expert and ministerial staff. The technical advisors
would be required to interact with ministry personnel in a "working group"
format, in order to encourage participation and dissemination of information. The
technical advisors would be responsible for organizing workshops in which staff
from different ministerial offices and from outside agencies discuss their
objectives and strategies. They would also organize seminars in which ministry
staff would present the results of their work to the ministry as a whole.
(c)   All terms of reference call for the consultant to produce a work program at the
beginning of his or her assignment, to be updated annually, in which he or she
specifies training and skills transfer strategies for the coming year and a strategy
and timetable for the implementation of these objectives.
(d)   All terms of reference include criteria for evaluating the work of technical
advisors with heavy emphasis on achieving training and skills transfer objectives.
2.    Because of the emphasis placed on developing and implementing management tools and
information flow procedures and on improving work methods and practices, on-the-job training
is clearly better suited to achieving the project's capacity building objectives. Nearly all training
under the Education Rehabilitation Project would be provided on-the-job through the use of
working groups that meet regularly. Workshops and seminars would also be organized to
facilitate inter-office communication and the dissemination of information. The project would
only finance short-term technical trainers who would provide on-the-job training in the MENRS
or short-term training for precise skills in Lome.



45                             ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
3.    Arrangements would be made under the information systems component to train key
personnel in the use of relevant software, and to provide trouble-shooting support throughout the
project period. This training would be conducted in the context of group sessions.
4.The training aspects of this project would be considered a success if, at the end of project
implementation, ministry staff were able to use new tools, information and work methods to
articulate needs and justify decision making processes, particularly in the context of requests for
operating and investment resources.



ANNEX VI
46                             Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
MANUELS SCOLAIRES
1.    Contexte et justification
Au Togo, les ecoles manquent de livres. La penurie est surtout aigue dans le Primaire et le
Deuxieme Degre (premier cycle du Secondaire General).
Au niveau du Primaire, le 2eme Projet Education avait finance la preparation et l'impression de
livres de francais et de calcul. Les livres ont 6te mis en vente a travers le reseau de distribution
de la Librairie des Mutuelles Scolaires (LIMUSCO) a 50% moins cher que dans les librairies
privees. Malgre cela, ils ont ete hors de la portee de la plupart des familles. Ainsi, de nombreux
e1lves, notamment ceux des zones rurales, sont restes sans livres. I1 est donc necessaire de
mettre des livres a la disposition des eleves a des conditions qui tiennent compte du faible
pouvoir d'achat de la plupart des parents.
Au niveau du Deuxieme Degre, la penurie de livres a et aggravee en novembre 1992 lorsque des
6l1ves, profitant d'une greve generale, ont emporte une grande partie des stocks. Cette situation
s'est davantage degradee en janvier 1994 lors de la devaluation du franc CFA, etant donne que la
plupart des livres utilises a ce niveau d'enseignement sont des livres importes et que leurs prix
ont, le plus souvent, doubl6. II s'avere donc imperatif de doter les colleges de manuels scolaires
et de guides pedagogiques en quantite adequate.
2.    Objectifs
Pour ameliorer la disponibilite et l'accessibilite des livres au niveau du Primaire et du Deuxieme
Degre, le projet va entreprendre les actions suivantes:
a) Pour le Primaire: Le projet va acquerir environ 2.288.000 manuels et 41.000 guides
pedagogiques en francais, en calcul et en sciences. II est attendu que ces quantites
assurent un ratio d'un livre par eleve et d'un guide par maitre, sur une periode de 5 ans.
Le projet va egalement financer une formation pour aider les Directeurs d'ecole, les
maitres et les parents a mieux proteger et conserver les livres. Le detail et les couits
estimatifs sont indiques au paragraphe 4.1 de cette annexe.
b) Pour le Deuxieme Degre: Le projet va financer un stock initial de 507.000 manuels et de
19.600 guides dans les disciplines suivantes: mathematiques, sciences physiques,
biologie, francais, anglais et geographie.  II est attendu que ce stock assure une
disponibilite d'un livre pour deux eleves a la rentree 1996/1997. Le detail et les coats
estimatifs figurent au paragraphe 4.2. Le projet va egalement financer une formation
pour aider les enseignants a mieux utiliser les livres. II va aussi financer la construction
de 35 reserves pour la conservation des livres dans les colleges.



47                                  ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 7
c) Le projet va egalement financer un systeme informatique de suivi des stocks au niveau
des ecoles primaires et des colleges.
3. Actions a mener
a) Pour le Primaire:   Le projet va proceder, par appel d'offres international, a la
reimpression des livres de fran,ais et de calcul qui ont ete produits dans le cadre du 2e
Projet Education et dont les maitres ont e  formes a l'utilisation. Comme les copyrights
ont 6te cedes a des editeurs prives pour une periode de 10 ans (jusqu'en 1999 pour les
livres de fran,ais et l'an 2000 pour les livres de calcul), le Gouvernement va trouver un
accord avec ces editeurs pour permettre de reimprimer ces titres par appel d'offres
international, et par consequent de les faire financer dans le cadre du projet. Quant aux
livres de sciences, ils seront achetes sur le marche, par appel d'offres international, sur la
base de criteres techniques et pedagogiques.   Tous les livres seront colises par
ecole/inspection et livres directement aux ecoles par les fournisseurs'. La reception sera
effectuee par une commission presidee par le Directeur d'ecole et comprenant des
representants des enseignants, des parents ou de la communaute. Les representants des
syndicats et des partis politiques y assisteront en tant qu'observateurs.  Les guides
pedagogiques seront prets aux maitres. Les manuels seront mis a la disposition des
&leves en contrepartie d'une contribution annuelle des parents de 200 francs CFA par an,
par enfant et pour les 3 livres.  Au niveau de chaque ecole, un comite preside par le
Directeur et comprenant les representants des maitres et des parents va utiliser les
sommes collectees pour assurer la protection, la bonne conservation et la securite des
livres, et pour remplacer les livres deteriores ou perdus2. Pour assurer le renouvellement
des livres acquis dans le cadre du projet, le Gouvernement va ouvrir un compte au Tresor
ou seront verses, chaque annee, ...%3 du budget de fonctionnement de 1'enseignement
primaire. Les montants annuels estimatifs qui seront deposes dans le compte sont
indiques au paragraphe 5. 1.
b) Pour le Deuxieme Degre:  Un titre par classe et par matiere sera selectionne par les
commissions chargees du choix des manuels scolaires. Un avis international sera lance
pour inviter les editeurs a soumettre des titres pour cette selection. Les titres selectionnes
seront regroupes en lots par discipline et achetes par appel d'offres international. Les
livres seront colises par college/inspection par les fournisseurs. Leur distribution aux
colleges sera assuree par la LIMUSCO. La reception sera effectuee par une commission
presidee par le Directeur et comprenant des representants des enseignants, des elves et
des parents. Les livres seront la propriete des colleges qui les mettront a la disposition
des elves a travers un systeme de location. Chaque college va se doter d'un comite pour
la mise en place et la gestion du systeme. Le comite sera charge de definir, a partir des
realites locales et des directives generales qui seront donnees par le MENRS, les
modalites d'organisation et de fonctionnement du systeme de location. II sera egalement
Les livres correspondant aux effectifs de l'annee 96/97 seront colises par ecole/inspection. Les exemplaires destines a couvrir
les accroissements d'effectifs seront livres en vrac a cause du manque de moyens de stockage dans les ecoles et pour plus
de flexibilite dans leur distribution (pour permettre, par exemple, de distribuer des livres aux ecoles qui seront creees
pendant la duree de vie du projet).
2 Les comites acheteront ces livres dans les librairies privees ou dans les magasins de la LIMUSCO.
3Le pourcentage et les montants annuels qui seront deposes dans le compte Tresor seront prdcises au cours des negociations.



48                              ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 7
charge de recuperer les fonds provenant de la location et de les deposer dans un compte
ouvert au nom du college. Les colleges vont utiliser les fonds recuperes pour acquerir les
exemplaires pour couvrir accroissements d'effectifs, les deteriorations et les pertes
pendant la duree de vie du projet. Le nombre estimatif de ces exemplaires est donne au
paragraphe 5.2.
c) Pour permettre de savoir, A tout moment, le nombre et l'etat des livres dans les ecoles
primaires et les colleges, partant fixer des chiffres de tirage plus precis, la Direction de la
Planification du MENRS va proceder a une informatisation des operations de distribution
et des stocks.
d) Conservation et utilisation des livres: La bonne conservation des livres et leur utilisation
effective par les enseignants et les eleves du Primaire de meme que le bon
fonctionnement du systeme de location dans les colleges seront des criteres
d'appreciation des Directeurs, des maitres et des professeurs lors des inspections. Une
circulaire ministerielle donnera des instructions dans ce sens aux Directeurs des Premier
et Deuxieme Degres et aux Inspecteurs.
e) Avant le 31 mars 1996, le Gouvernement soumettra a l'IDA le projet d'Arrete ministeriel
portant institution d'un systeme de pret de livres dans le Primaire et d'un systeme de
location decentralise dans le Deuxieme Degre. Ce projet d'Arr&e fixera le montant de la
contribution des parents pour les livres du Primaire et les modalites generales
d'organisation et de fonctionnement du systeme de location dans les colleges. II decrira
egalement les mecanismes pour controler aussi bien les fonds collectes au niveau des
ccoles primaires que la gestion du systeme de location dans les colleges.



49                                           ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 7
4. Financement
4.1 Quantites et couts des livres du Primaire
TITRES/NIVEAUX  EFFECTIFS'  TIRAGES                          TITRES/NIVEAUX  EFFECTIFS   TIRAGES
REIMPRESSION                              _           _                                                   _ _ _
Livres de l'eleve                                           I_ACHAT
1. FranCais I c annee            175748        228472        Llivres de l'eleve
2. Fran,ais 2e annee             131446        170880        1. Sciences 3e ann6e             126322        164219
3. Fran,ais 3e annie             126322        164219        2. Sciences 4e annte             94851         123306
4. Francais 4e annee             94851         123306        3. Sciences 5e ann6e             90768         117998
5. Francais 5e annee             90768         117998        4. Sciences 6e ann6e             59608          77490
6. Francais 6e ann6e             59608         77490         Total livres de l'dleve                        483013
7. Calcul le annee               175748        228472        Livres du mattre
8 Calcul 2e ann6e                131446        170880        5. Sciences 3e annte              2297          2986
9. Calcul 3e annde               126322        164219        6. Sciences 4e annee              1725          2242
10. Calcul 4e annce              94851         123306        7. Sciences 5e ann6e              1650          2145
11. Calcul 5e annde              90768         117998        8.Sciences 6c ann6e               1084          1409
12. Calcul 6e annee              59608         77490        j Total livres du maltre                         8782
Total livres de l'leve                         1764730      i
Livres du maltre| Total livres achet6s                                                                      491796
1. Francais Ie annee              3195          4154         Prix unitaire moyen                             1500
2. Francais 2e ann6e              2390          3107         cOat total I ivres achet6s                    737694000
3. Fran,ais 3e ann6e              2297          2986
4. Francais 4e annee              1725          2242         Nombre total de livres                         2288611
S. Fran,ais Se annde              1650          2145        | CoOt d'acquisition total des                2642318960
livres
6. Francais 6e annee              1084          1409        | Livraison aux dcoles'                       228861100
7. Calcul le annee                3195          4154         Coat total des livres                        2871180060
8 Calcul 2e annde                 2390          3107
9. Calcul 3e annee                2297          2986
10. Calcul 4e annee               1725          2242
11. Calcul 5e annee               1650          2145         _
12. Calcul 6e ann6e               1084          1409   r
Total livres du maitre           24682         32086        r
Total livres r6imprim6s                        1796816
Prix unitaire moyen                             1060
CoOt total reimpression                      1904624960
4Effectifs des 6elves de I'annee 1996/1997 tirds des Perspectives d'6volution des effectifs scolaires par classe jusqu'a I'an 2005
communiquecs par lc PAGED et ajust6es en fonction des effectifs de P'ann6e 1993/1994.
sEffectifs ajustes de 1996/1997 majores de 30% pour couvrir les accroissements des effectifs des e6lves pouvant intervenir
pendant la dur6e de vie du stock estimee a 5 ans
6 Tirages: effectifs des mattres pour 1996/1997 majores de 30%/. pour couvrir les deteriorations, les pertes et les accroissements
des effectifs pouvant intervenir pendant la duree de vie du stock estim6e a 5 ans
7CoOts de livraison aux ecoles estimes a 100 FCFA par exemplaire.



50                                        ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 7
4.2 Quantites et couts des livres du Deuxieme Degre
TITRES/NIVEAUX                       QUANTITES' v    TITRES/NIVEAUX                          QUANTITES
Livres de 1'eleve                  3                   Guides pedagogiques
Franiais 66                         23 472             Francais 66                           807
Grammaire                           23 472       ,     Grammaire                             807
Sciences physiques 66               23 472             Sciences physiques 66                465
Mathematiques 6e                    23 472             Mathematiques 6e                      837
Anglais 6e                          23 472             Anglais 6e                            903
Biologie 6e                         23 472             Biologie 6e                           774
Franqais 5                         18 983             Fran,ais 5e                           807
Grammaire 5e                         18 983            Grammaire                             807
Sciences physiques Se               18 983             Sciences physiques 56                465
Mathematiques 5e                    18 983             Mathematiques 5                      837
Anglais 56                          18 983             Anglais 56                            903
Biologie 5e                         18 983             Biologie 5e                           774
4e
Fran,ais 46                         20 816             Fran,ais 4e                          807
Grammaire 4e                        20 816             Grammaire                             807
Sciences physiques 4e               20 816             Sciences physiques 4e                465
Mathematiques 4e                    20 816             Mathematiques 4e                      837
Anglais 4e                          20 816             Anglais 46                            903
Geologie 4e                         20 816             Geologie 46                           774
3e                                                     36
Francais 36                          16744             Francais 3e                           807
Grammaire 36                         16744             Gramnmaire 36                         807
Sciences physiques 3e                16744             Sciences physiques 36                465
Mathematiques 3e                     16744             Mathematiques 3e                      837
Anglais 3e                           16744             Anglais 3e                            903
Biologie 3e                          16744             Biologie 3e                           774
Geographie 3e                        16744             Geographie 3e                         828
Total des exemplaires pour les eleves   496834         Exemplaires pour 1'encadrement            400
Exemplaires pour 1'encadrement           10166         Total guides pedagogiques                19600
Total manuels scolaires                 507000
Total manuels et guides                 526600
Pix unitaire moyen                       5000
_ _   Livraison aux colleges par la LIMUSCO    5500000
......__ _   Co&t total des livres du 2e Degre  2638500000
Quantites pour la rentree 1996/1997 communiquees par la Direction du Deuxieme Degre.



ANNEX VI
51                                        Page 6 of 7
4.3     Assistance technique pour la
passation des marches et la mise en place
d'un systeme informatique de suivi des stocks (3 rn/m):                23,850,000 FCAF
4.4     Construction de 35 reserves:                                          103,880,000 FCFA
4.5     Equipement informatique
(1 ordinateur + imprimante + logiciel):                                 6,996,000 FCFA
4.6     Fornation a la protection, A conservation
et a l'utilisation des livres (81 participants):                        8,215,000 FCFA.
5.      Financement par le Gouvernement9 et les communautes
5.1     Avoirs du compte Tresor pour le renouvellement du stock du Primaire
ANNEES                    AVOIRS COMPTE TRESOR
96/97
97/98
98/99
99/00
00/01
TOTAL
5.2     Contributions annuelles des communautes au Deuxieme DegrE
ANNEES.           MAINTENANCE"'                 COUTS
96/97                 24842                 124,153,000
97/98                 49683                 248,311.000
98/99                 74525                 372,469,000
99/00                 99366                 496,621,000
00/01                 99366                 496,621,000
TOTAL           347782                1,738,175,000
9Voir note 3.
0 ll est attendu que les sommes provenant de la location des livres permettent d'acquerir les exemplaires necessaires pour assurer
la disponibilite d'un livre pour deux eleves pendant la dur6e du projet (i.e. couvrir les accroissements des effectifs des
ielves, les deteriorations et les pertes). Le nombre de ces exemplaires a etd estime comme suit: pour la le annee: 5% des
496834 exemplaires destines aux eleves; pour la 2e annee: 10%; pour la 3e annee: 15%; pour la 4e annee: 20%; et pour la
Se ann6: 20%.



52                                    ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 7
5.3    Resume des Couts des Manuels Scolaires (Cofits de Base)
|__ _ __   FCFA        USS
CoOt des livres rendus dans les dcoles primaires  2,642,268,000  4,985,500
Cout d'achat des livres du secondaire           2,631,893,000    4,965,800
Livraison des livres du secondaire aux colleges    6,052,600        11,400
Total IDA                               5,280,231,000    9,962,700
Contributions attendues des communautds pour le  1,738,175,000   3,279,600
secondaire
Total IDA/Communautis                   7,018,419,000    13,242,300
CALENDRIER D'ACQUISITION DES LIVRES
1. Livres du Primraire
Operations                          Dates                   Responsables
1. Preparation et approbation par l'IDA des   Juillet/ Octobre 1995   Coordination du PAGED
dossiers d'appel d'offres
2. Preparation de la liste de repartition des livres  Juillet/Aouit 1995  DEPD/DGPE
par titre et par etablissement
3. Lancement de l'appel d'offres              I er Novembre 1995    Coordination du PAGED
4. Ouverture des plis                         5 Janvier 1996        Commission de depouillement
5. Evaluation des offres                      Janvier/Fevrier 1996   Commission de depouillement
6. Signature du/des contrat(s)                Ier Mars 1996         Coordination du PAGED
7. Execution du/des contrat(s) et livraison   Mars/Octobre 1996    Foumisseur(s)
des ouvrages aux ecoles
2. Livres du Secondaire
Operations                           Dates                  Responsables
1. Preparation de l'avis pour la selection des  Juillet/AoOt 1994    Coordination du PAGED
titres
2. Preparation des criteres de selection des titres   Septembre 1994  Commissions des manuels
scolaires
3. Publication de l'avis pour la selection des  16 Novembre 1994     Coordination du PAGED
titres dans Development Business
4. Evaluation des titres proposes             Janvier/Fevrier 1995    Commissions des manuels
scolaires
5. Preparation de la liste de repartition des livres  Juillet/AoOt 1995  Deuxieme Degre
par titre et par etablissement
6. Preparation et approbation par l'IDA du    Juillet/ Octobre 1995    Coordination du PAGED
dossier d'appel d'offres
7. Lancement de l'appel d'offres              ler Novembre 1995      Coordination du PAGED
8. Ouverture des plis                         4 Janvier 1996         Commission de depouillement
9. Evaluation des offres                      Janvier/Fevrier 1996    Commission de depouillement
10. Signature du/des contrat(s)               ler Mars 1996          Coordination du PAGED
11. Execution du contrat et livraison des     Mars/Juillet 1996      Foumisseur(s)
ouvrages a Lome
12. Distribution des livres aux colleges      Aout/Septembre 1996   Limusco
3. Informatisation de la distribution et des stocks
Opkrations                          j Dates                          Responsables
Mise en place du systeme            I Janvier/juillet 1996           Coodination du PAGED/DGPE



53                          ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
QUALITY SCHOOLS INITIATIVE
I.    Background. The implementation of the Education II Project in Togo showed that for in-
service education programs to be successfully translated into changed teacher behavior, they
must match the felt needs of teachers in a consistent manner over time. However, in Togo, in-
service training programs have been very top-down in nature, and implemented in inconsistent
fashion. The teachers who have stood in greatest need of these programs, i.e. the village-based
auxiliary teachers, have frequently not had access to these programs, which all too often have
failed entirely to account for local variations in teacher and student needs. The Quality Schools
Initiative designed under the current operation seeks to address this weakness by supporting
stakeholder involvement in designing and carrying out an innovative program of in-service
education based on needs expressed by teachers themselves. This program builds on existing
structures to introduce teaching innovations, and would help transform the role of regional and
prefectoral inspectors from one of administrative support to one of instructional support and
leadership.
I. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
2.    Long-term goals and objectives. The long-term goals of the Quality Schools Initiative
are derived from Government's statement of education sector policy, i.e. to improve the quality
of teaching and leaming in Togolese primary schools and to increase the level of community
involvement in the education programs. This program would be the operational mechanism
through which the school becomes the locus of change in the education system. As such, the
program is seen, not as a permanent feature of the educational scene in Togo, but as a key
transitional program over a five-year period, starting to redefine the role of teacher, principal,
pedagogic advisor, and inspector. It would have the following long-term objectives: (a) to help
teachers focus on improving subject matter teaching; (b) to improve the knowledge base of
teachers; (c) to promote community involvement in school activities; (d) to develop a feedback
loop permitting decision-makers to receive reliable information about the quality of teaching and
learning; and (e) to introduce promising new approaches to teaching into the educational system.
3.    Medium-term goals and objectives. The principal medium-term goals of the Quality
Schools Initiative are to operationalize the Government's commitment to bringing about school-
based change within Togolese primary schools and to pass the message of the need for
qualitative change in teaching to all stakeholders.  The medium-term  objectives are the
following: to help school personnel develop project proposals based on local school needs; to
train inspectors and pedagogic advisors to provide instructional support to teachers and school
directors; to develop community participation in the introduction of innovations; and to ensure
financial responsibility in the use of funds.



54                            ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 4
II. IMPLEMENTATION
4.    Project description. The project will involve the following elements: (a) the introduction
of innovative activities at the primary school level; (b) the use of action-research projects as a
tool for innovation and in-service training; (c) the participation of schools and their communities
for analysis of existing education problems and the development of tentative solutions; (d) the
increased use of national expertise; (e) increasing decentralization of responsibilities to the
regions; and (f) systematic follow-up of action-research and other school-level activities.
5.    Proposals for school improvement will fall into one of two categories: action research
projects and school/community projects. Approximately 300 small grants would be given on a
competitive basis to individual schools or school clusters for improving teaching and learning.
An additional 50 more broadly-based projects with external researchers (Ministry and university
personnel) would also be financed.
6.    Preparation of proposals. The process of pilot school identification and survey design
would provide a vehicle for consensus and capacity building in terms of how to go about
improving the way schools operate. The School Quality subcommittee (of the overall Steering
Committee) would be responsible for selecting and orienting school survey/research teams. The
small grants to individual schools or school clusters would be given on the basis of a proposals
prepared by the school teachers and directors themselves. The larger "action research" projects
would be selected through a competitive bidding process, in which public, quasi-public
(including the university and NGOs) and private research-oriented institutions would be invited
to submit survey proposals. A total of 72 small grants would be given during the first phase of
the project.
7.    Selection of proposals. Six selection committees (one in each of the five regions, and a
national committee located in Lome) will meet once a year for selection of the proposals. The
pre-selection at the regional level, and the final selection at the national level will be based on
criteria described in the operational manual. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) the educational value of the proposed project, including its potential contribution to
improving teaching and learning at the school and the potential benefit for target groups such as
the poor, rural students, and girls; (b) the feasibility of the proposed project; (c) the capacities
and potential of unit members; and (d) the level of community support for the proposal.
8.    The program would begin with teams working in each of Togo's five geographic regions.
Schools would be chosen based on both the presence of innovative personnel and the existence
of promising local practices. To the extent possible, experimentation would build on local
practices. Examples of innovations to be considered are: (a) decentralized teacher supervision
and management systems, leading to a restructured role for school directors and inspectors,
(b) monitoring of teacher candidates based on traditional apprenticeship models and private
sector initiatives, and (c) increasing the role of communities in school management.



55                             ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
9.    Training programs. An in-service teacher training program is being developed under this
component for training of all primary school teachers, based on the activities and results of the
Quality Schools Initiative itself-.The in-service training strategies would be centered on and
informed by the "action research" activities. It is further expected that the "action research"
programs would stimulate the mobilization of additional resources at the community level. In
addition, host schools would be expected to evolve into demonstration schools to be used for in-
service training.
10.   In the first two years of the project, the focus will be on the upgrading of auxiliary
teachers (approximately 30 percent of the total number of primary school teachers). These
teachers will receive a more intensive training program, but all teachers will receive a minimum
of three days in-service training over the first two years (approximately 6000 teachers each year).
Training seminars have already been held for the personnel who will form the central selection
committee. This seminar will be repeated in each region of the country for training the regional
selection committees and the program evaluators.  While the program  itself constitutes a
significant in-service training experience, additional training for school directors, pedagogic
advisors and inspectors will take place under the Ministerial Restructuring component of the
project. The training programs are described in the operational manual.
11.   Renewal of funding. School/community proposals will cover a one-year period with
financing to range from $1000 to $3000. The best initiatives could be renewed for a second year
or a third year, upon recommendation of the regional jury.
12.   First phase of in-service education. This program is a key element of the Government's
strategy for renewing in-service education over the project lifespan. The unit responsible for in-
service training (DIFOP), the National Institute of Education Sciences (INSE), and the
Elementary Education will participate in initial planning and training activities in order to
harmonize the role of each of these entities in this program.
II. EVALUATION AND FOLLOW-UP
12.   Reports. The selection committees will prepare reports of their activities and decisions.
Bi-monthly summaries of activities and expenses will be provided by the research units) for
transmission to the regional level. An end-of-year report will be prepared by each research unit
as per the criteria and issues outlined in the operational manual.
13.   Managing the change process. In order to ensure that the lessons learned at the school
level serve as a stimulus for the process of change in the country, regional seminars will be held
each summer. They will bring together representatives of all groups funded during the previous
year, as well as the other personnel associated with the program. The format will be that of a
professional conference (break-out groups followed by a plenary session). Representatives of the
action-research and the school/community groups will meet according to the themes they have
dealt with; each group will discuss the generalizability of the results obtained. A national



56                           ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 4
seminar will follow the regional seminars each year. Where appropriate, outside funding would
be sought for innovative groups to present their findings at professional conferences outside the
country.
15.   The survey/research process would give the Steering Committee, as well as IDA and
other donors, the opportunity to evaluate the capacity of the survey teams and to provide
constructive feedback where needed. The number of schools involved in the program would
expand depenrding on local capacity, resource availability, and results obtained. The Steering
Committee would be responsible for ensuring that all activities--survey team selection, school
selection, survey design preparation and survey implementation--are coordinated with the
relevant regional and district-level authorities. In particular, inspectors in the chosen school
districts would work closely with the survey tearns.
16.   Satellite school arrangements and instructional supervision guidelines for school
principals would be tested through the network of schools participating in the Quality Schools
Initiative. The Quality Schools Initiative would also help the Government monitor expenditures
within the framework of the education budget for routine teacher training and supervision. It
would also evaluate the impact of training on teaching quality and student learning outcomes.



57
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY YEARS
(US$ '000)
Base Cost                          Foreign Exchange
1996     1997      1996      1999      2000    Total        I       Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. CIVIL WCRKS                              1,887.0  1,691.0  1,691.0  1,691.0            -  6,960.0       40.0  2,764.0
B. tEXTi,7B,Ku                             10,654.6    46d.5    702.8    937.0    937.0 13,700.0           72.6  9,951.2
C. GOODS
Equipment                                  420.3    101.0       56.0         -         -    577.3       98.8    570.7
Vehicles                                  _243.0         -    _         -              -    243.0    100.0 _243.0
Subtotal GOODS                                663.3    101.0       56.0         -         -    820.3       99.2    613.7
D. CONSULTANT SERVICES
Technical Assistence - lnternational    237.1    192.1    192.1    162.1    132.1    915.5    100.0    915.5
Technical Assistance - National            509.4    559.4    464.4    464.4    464.4  2,462.0              -
Subtotal CONSULTANT SERVICES                  746.5    751.5    656.5    626.5    596.5  3,377.5           27.1    915.5
E. TRAINING
Training Atroad                             40.0      40.0      20.0         -         -    100.0    100.0    100.0
Local Training and Seminars                627.8    571.9    561.6    303.0    303.0  2,367.5              -         -
Subtotal TRAININGO                            667.8    611.9    581.6    303.0    303.0  2,467.5            4.1    100.0
F. STUDiES                                     68.4      68.4      54.2      40.0      40.0    271.0       21.0      56.8
G. REFUNDING OF PPF                           380.0          -                  -         -    380.0       20.0      76.0
Total Invetirent Costs                          15,067.7  3,692.4  3,742.1  3,597.5  1,876.5 27,976.3          52.5 14,697.2
II. Recurrent Costs
A. OPERATING COSTS
Teachers' Salaries                       2,492.8  2,662.6  2,832.5  2,886.8  2,886.8 13,761.5              -         -
General Operating Costs                     34.3      26.4      26.4      26.4      26.4    139.7       26.0      36.4
Vahicle Mlnintenance and Fuel               37.3      37.3      37.3      37.3      37.3    186.7       26.6      49.7
Eguipz.ent Maintenance                      30.6      30.6      30.6      30.6      30.6    153.1       33.5     51.4
Field Supervision Allcwance                 53.3      53.3      53.3      53.3      53.3    266.5                    -
Total Recurrent Costs                             ,       2         2,980.1   3,034.4  3,034.4 14,507.5         0.9    137.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                             17,716.1  6,502.6  6,722.2  6,632.0  4,911.0 42,483.8          34.9 14,834.6
PhysLcal Contingencies                           251.2    180.4    167.2    131.9         62.7    793.4       36.4    288.9
Price Contingenctes                              627.7    470.3    712.2    891.8    657.7  3,359.7           23.0    773.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                              18,595.0  7,153.4  7,601.6  7,655.6  5,631.4 46,637.0          34.1 15,891.2
Taxes                                            222.2    202.9    212.2    220.7          9.6    867.5          -         -
Foreign Eachange                              12,354.8  1,193.1  1,132.3  1,018.5    198.5 15,897.2
Tue May 33 16:05:24 1995



58
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EOUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Pro3ect Cost Summary
1     I Total
ICFAF '000)                       IUSS '000)           Foreign      base
Local      Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
A. DEVKLOPNaWT or BETTER SCHOOLS
SCrcoi C.nstruction and Rehabilitation               2,257,537  1,711,471  3,969,008  4,259.5  3,229.2  7,488.7               43         16
Textrock ?:cvisicn                                    2,058,762  5.,357,160  7,415,923  3,884.5 10,107.8 13,992.3             72         33
Q..slity Schools initiative                           1,779,661  140,715.0  1,920,376  3,357.9    265.5  3,623.4                7         9
Subtotal DEVELOPMET OF   tTTM SOICHOOLS                  6,095,960  7,209,347 13,305,306 11,501.8 13,602.5 25,104.4               54        59
b. DEVELOPET Or hUlE  SYSTEM 34MIas CT
Decentralized Recruit*ent/Financing of Teachers  7,493,675                 -  7,493,675 14,139.0           - 16,139.0           -        33
Information Systems                                   124,774.7  308,839.5  433,614.2    235.4    582.7    818.1              71          2
Bu.qetary Prograwsing and Monitoring                  161,233.5   46,666.5  227,900.0    342.0          88.1    430.0         20          1
Consolidaticn of Ministerial Restructuring            597,290.9  257,222.8  854,513.7  1,127.0    485.3  1,612.3               30         4
Subtotal nClLOPnIt 09 BtTR 5Y55D4 8MAAAC1                6,396,974  612,728.8  9,009,703 15,843.3  1,156.1 16,999.4                7        40
C. REFUNDING OF IPPF                                     lbl,120.0   40,280.0  201,400.0    304.0          76.0    180.0          20         1
Total SASELDS C0STS                                     13,654,054  7,862,355 22,516,109 27,649.2 14,831.S6  2,483.8               35       300
Physical Ccntingencies                                  267,418.9  153,101.6  420,520.6    504.6    288.9    793.4               36         2
Price Contingencies                                     1,370,604  410,051.2  1,780,656  2,586.0    773.7  3,359:7              23          8
Total PROJECT COlST                                      16,292,077  8,425,508 24,717,585 30,739.8 15,897.2 46,637.0               34       110
Tue May 30 16:03:43 1995



59
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
DRAFT PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION I: THE PROJET
1.1          Project framework
1.2          Objectives of the project
1.3          Project description
1.4          Estimated cost of the project by component and category
1.5          Financing Plan
1.6          Calendar regarding the implementation of activities
1.7          Main conditionalities of the Credit Agreement
SECTION 2: IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES
2.1          Follow-up, pilot project coordination and execution
2.2          Civil engineering
2.3          School manuals
2.4          Training
2.5          Operation
2.6          Research projects/Quality school survey
SECTION 3: PROCUREMENT
3.1          Calendar for the procurement of goods and services
3.2          Applicable procurement procedures
3.3          Documents to be submitted to IDA
SECTION 4: DISBURSEMENTS
4.1          Disbursement category and reallocation of funds
4.2          Credit account
4.3          Special accountl
4.4          Project account



60
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 7
SECTION 5: ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
5.1         Accounting and budgetary system
5.2         Terms of reference and auditing calendar
SECTION 6: MONITORING AND EVALUATION
6.1         Execution monitoring
6.2         Mid-term review
6.3         IDA Supervision Planning
6.4         Implementation Completion Report
ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Convention standard form for consulting firms
Annexe 2:   Standard local bidding documents for works
Annexe 3:   Standard international bidding documents for furniture
Annexe 4:   Standard international bidding documents for the procurement of
textbooks
Annexe 5:   Standard local bidding documents for the procurement of furniture
Annexe 6:   Model of letter of invitation for consulting services
Annexe 7:   Disbursement letter
Annexe 8:   Information forms regarding contracts and loans



61
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 7
ORGANIGRAMME
DU MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE
ET DE LA RECHERCHE SCIENTIFIQUE
(Decret No. 92-195/PM du 12/8/92)
-i  CES   |cs9                                                                                                                                                   - 
L1 LIMUSCO |                                                        |  Secretariat Geniral
DO ENSEIGNEMENT              F         NSEIGNEMENT1                                                            DG PLANIFICATION              DO ADMINSTRATION
SUPERIE                        e 2e ET 3DEGRS                                                               DE L'EDUCATION                  ET FINANCES
DIRECTIONS REGIONALES DE L'EUDCATION NATIONALEi
CN UNESCO: Commnission Nationale de i'UNESCO
CNRS :Conseil National de Is Recherche Scicntiflque
CSEN :Conseil Supdrieur de l'Educatton Nationale
DAF: Direction des Affaires Financieres
DBS :Direction des Bourses et Stages
=CSE :Direction des Construtions Scolaires ac de l'Equipennents
ODOSP :Direction de Ia Documnentation et de l'Orientation Scolxires et Profeasionneiles
OEXC :Direcdion des Examens et Concours
EODD  Direction de lEnseignement du Deuxieme Degre
DEIE: Direction des EcoDDs Inrer Etaus
DEPD  Direction de I'Enseignesnens du Premier Degri
DETD :Direction de l'Erseignement du TroisiT 7e Degr7
DLG  Directionn Gennu
Dl Direction de lIonforedatque
DIFOP  Direction de I    l Formation Penhnae te de l'Action et de Iu Recherche Peddgogique
DPCS  Direction  dc I  Planification et  Na Carte Scolaire
DPE: Direction des Projets Educationa
DRH : Direction des Ressources Hut aines
DRS : Direction de Is Rechrsche Scinatirque
ENS  : Ecole Normn e Supmrie ntre
DCES  Grand Conseil de l'Enseignement SupDieur
LIMUSCO  Librire des Muuelles   Scolaires
USEP Univerite du Btnin
VS  Village du Benin



62
ANNEX IX
Page 4 of 7
ORGANISATION DE L'EXECUTION DU PAGED
ENTITES                              ELEMENTS DU PROJET
COMITE DE SUIVI
INTERMINISTERIEL
COMITE DE PILOTAGE
SECTORIEL DU MENRS
DCPE & DRE          Decentralisation regionale aministrative et
financiere et systeme d'information
DGPE         DCPE                 Systeme informatique de gestion (carte
scolaire effectifs eleves, enseignants...)
COOR                   DCEISU              Construction et rehabilitation des ecoles
elaboration normes construction scolaires
DON                   DEPE/DAF            Comptabilite budgetaire et gestion des
contrats du PAGED
NAT    DEPD                               Innovation pedagogiques / gestion manuels
du I er degre / formation a leur utilisation
TEUR   DEDD                                Selection et gestion manuels du 2eme degre
/ formation a leur entretien et utilisation
DIFOP                             Innovations pedagogiques (en collaboration
avec la DEPD)
DRH                               Programmation et suivi budgetaire y
compris au niveau regional



63
ANNEX IX
Page 5 of 7
SECTION 2: DISPOSITIONS D'EXECUTION
2.1. SUIVI, PILOTAGE, COORDINATION ET GESTION
Le MENRS assume la responsabilite globale d'execution du projet.
La coordination et la gestion du projet sont assurees par les services operationnels
du MENRS, conformement a leurs attributions. Le suivi et le pilotage seront
respectivement effectues par un comite interministeriel et par un comite miniteriel.
Le Comite interministeriel de suivi
Etant donne l'importance de la reaffectation intersectorielle des ressources
en faveur des secteurs sociaux, et la necessite d'un dialogue au sein de 1'ensemble du
Gouvemement a propos des liens existant entre 1'education et le developpement
economique, un comite interministeriel a et cree pour superviser ces questions plus
larges. En font partie : le Ministere de l'education, le Ministere du Plan, le Ministere des
finances et le Ministere de la fonction publique. Ce comite se reunira tous les trimestres
pendant la premiere annee de la mise en oeuvre et deux fois par an pendant les deux
autres annees du projet. Il sera responsable de la gestion du processus de mise ajour de la
Declaration de politique sectorielle du Gouvemement et devra assurer la transition vers
les activites de la seconde phase. Ce comite interministeriel sera aussi responsable de
l'elaboration, au sein du Gouvemement, d'un soutien operationnel a la reaffectation
proposee des ressources du Gouvemement en faveur de l'education.
Le Comite de pilotage
Un comite de pilotage comprenant les directeurs de departements du
Ministere de l'education, place sous la presidence du Ministre ou de son representant
renforce les capacites de gestion au sein du ministere. Il a ete cree pour assumer la
responsabilite de la preparation et de la mise en oeuvre du projet, il est devenu aussi le
principal organe de prise de decisions au sein du ministere, avec de vastes responsabilites
dans le domaine des decisions et de la mise en oeuvre de politiques. Ce comite de
pilotage est le moyen principal de s'assurer que les options produites aux plans de
l'information et de la politique pendant la phase d'execution du projet seront bien dirigees
sur le processus de formulation de politique. II a aussi la responsabilite, dans ce contexte,
d'assurer une large participation au processus de preparation et de mise en oeuvre - aussi
bien au sein qu'en dehors du Ministere de l'education - et pour parvenir a un consensus
concemant les objectifs du projet et les strategies operationnelles.
Le Comite de pilotage sera responsable au sein du Ministere du suivi de la mise
en oeuvre du projet et devra fournir des retroinformations et un soutien au personnel



64
ANNEX IX
Page 6 of 7
responsable du MENRS afin de faciliter la mise en oeuvre du projet dans les delais
impartis. Le Comite de pilotage aura pour mandat principal la rdsolution des problemes;
son role consiste A agir rapidement et de maniere efficace pour faciliter la mise en oeuvre
du projet et s'assurer que les problemes sont discutes et resolus en temps voulu. II est
aussi cependant responsable du suivi et de l'evaluation du transfert des capacites
techniques des conseillers foumis par le projet au personnel du MENRS.
Le Comite de pilotage sera responsable de l'organisation et participera A la revue A
mi parcours du projet.
Coordination et gestion
Le Coordonnateur du PAGED en tant que responsable principal de l'execution
du projet au sein du MENRS, est responsable de la coordination generale et de
1'evaluation de ce projet. II est aussi responsable de l'execution des activites lides a la
planification du secteur et A l'amrlioration de 1'education.. I1 coordonne les activites
r6gulieres du projet et suit l'ex6cution et les resultats du projet. Le Coordonnateur
collabore avec les directeurs du MENRS pour la preparation des programmes de travail et
des budgets annuels et a, en demier ressort, la responsabilite de rassembler et de foumir A
la Banque les rapports et les documents requis par le projet. Le Coordonnateur sert de lien
entre le MENRS et l'IDA.
Les sujets relatifs A la mise en oeuvre et specifiques a l'IDA, comme les
achats, les decaissements et la comptabilite du projet releveront de la DAF/DEPE, sous la
supervision generale du Coordonnateur.
La DAF/DEPE/DGPE (Division des Affaires Financieres de la Direction
de l'Execution des Projets d'Education qui fait partie de la Direction Generale de la
Planification de I'Education) est responsable de tous les aspects financiers du projet et,
sous la responsabilite du Coordonnateur, prepare les budgets annuels pour toutes les
composantes du projet. Un comptable du projet, base a la DAF/DEPE, tient le systeme de
comptabilite et de gestion budgetaire du projet, prepare les demandes de decaissement, et
organise les audits des comptes du projet et des etats certifies de depenses. Un
gestionnaire de contrats, A la DAF/DEPE, conduit toutes les activites de passation des
marches: allotissement, programmation des achats.redaction des documents d'appel
d'offres et analyse des offres en relation avec les beneficiaires des biens et services et les
services competents de l'administration, approbation des marches, receptions et mise en
paiement des factures. Enfin, la DAF/DEPE aide le Coordonnateur A preparer les
rapports sur l'avancement et les documents necessaires aux revues conjointes annuelles de
l'execution du projet.
La DEPD est responsable de la mise en oeuvre de l'ensemble des actions
identifiees pour l'initiative de recherche destinees A am6liorer la qualite des ecoles.Elle



65
ANNEX IX
Page 7 of 7
organise les formations a la maintenance et A l'utilisation des manuels et supervise la
gestion de la location des manuels du premier degre.
Les directions des deux premiers degres d'enseignement sont
responsables de la selection pedagogiques et techniques des manuels scolaires A acquerir;
ces directions participent aussi a 1'evaluation des offres des editeurs. Elles organisent les
formations a la maintenance et a l'utilisation des manuels et supervisent la gestion de la
location des manuels.
La DCEISU/DGPE est responsable du developpement de normes de
construction et de rehabilitation, de la proposition des criteres de selection des travaux de
rehabilitation (portee et localisation) en relation avec les services de la carte scolaire ainsi
que de la definition et de la supervision generale du programme de construction et de
rehabilitation. Elle organise avec le concours de la DAF/DEPE, la selection des bureaux
d'etudes techniques prives en vue d'effectuer les etudes puis le suivi et le contr6le des
travaux de construction et de rehabilitation des ecoles de meme que la selection des
entreprises d'execution de ces travaux.  La DCEISU  coordonne et supervise les
prestations des BET et des entreprises. Elle transmet a la DAF/DEPE pour paiement les
notes d'honoraires des BET et les decomptes des entreprises apres les avoir contr6l8s.
La DGPE et la DHR (Direction generale de la planification de l'education
et Direction des Ressources Humaines) seront responsables de l'informatisation du
ministere. La DRH sera responsable de la mise en oeuvre du systeme de programmation
et de suivi budgetaires du MENRS.



ANNEX X
Page 1 of 2
KEY MONITORING ACTIVITIES
Improve Quality of Schools
Government              Project Component and Activities                    Expected Results/impact                            Timing/Targets           Indicators                     Responsible
Objectives                                                                                                                                                                             Agency
Replace and             School Construction and Rehabilitation: (a)        (a) rehabilitation of 440 classrooms and            2000: 360 classrooms   Annual replacement of 90         Construction Unit
rehabilitate primary    replace and rehabilitate classrooms; (b) provide    construction of approximately 360 classrooms; (b)   rebuilt; 440            classrooms and rehabilitation    within MENRS for
and secondary           technical assistance for studies on rehabilitation  establishment of norms and procedures to inform    classrooms               of 11 classfrooms for the     overall
classrooms              needs, architectural services. preparation of bidding   the work of other donors; (c) completion of an in-  rehabilitated.      period: 1995-96; 1996-97;      management,
documents. and establishment ofnomis and           depth report on rehabilitation needs                                         1997-98: and 1998-99.         development of
procedures for classroom constuction and                                                                                                                      norms and
rehabilitation                                                                                                                                                procedures;
private contractor
to oversee
____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ implementation
Promote quality and     Textbook Provision: (a) purchasc and distribute     (a) purchase and distribution of approximately     School year              Books purchased and            Textbook sub-
efficiency in lower     lower secondary cycle textbooks for five-year       507.000 textbooks for lower secondary schools; (b)   1996-7: Production     distributed to lower           committee for
secondary schools       period; (b) purchase and distribute teachers' guides;   purchase and distribution of approximately 19,600    and distribution of  secondary schools as         book selection;
(c) train teachers in the use of textbooks; (d)    teachers' guides: (c) provision of training for     approximately 507.000   scheduled; working rental      schools and
construct hook storage facilities                  teachers on the use of textbooks: (d) construction of  textbooks; printing  systems in place at all lower    Parents'
book storage facilities                            and distribution of      secondary schools; inclusion   Associations for
approximately 19.200    of successful management of   maintenance of
teachers' guides:       textbook rental system as      book stock.                 a"
provision of teacher    criteria for inspectors
training                evaluating school directors
Promote quality and     Quality Schools In-Serv ice Training: A network of   (a) establishment and training of a Togolese      First 30 months:         Technical assistance teant     Directorate of
efficiency in primary   pilot schools would be created to (a) pcnnit        technical assistance team; (b) establishment of the  establish and train    providing assistance to the    Primary Education
schools                 ministry personnel to develop new management        Quality Schools Initiative sub-committee ofthe     technical assistance     project, sub-committee
practices and structures. teaching methods and     national steering committee; (c) use of action-     team, establish Qualitv   meeting on a regular basis,  Parents'
material resource combinations; (b) help ministrv    research to develop action plans as per identified  Schools sub-          20 action-research programs    Associations for
personnel to establish and monitor performance     school-level problems; (d) conducting of in-service    committee of national    completed in 1996, 50 in   maintenance of
indicators and to develop and reflne school        teacher training and training for school directors;  steering committee,    1997, and 50 more in 1998;    book stock.
management and spending norms; (c) encourage       (e) preparation and submission of thematic reports    complete 20 action-   teacher training as scheduled
the participation of teachers, school directors,   to the national steering committee on issues        research plans, identify
inspectors, and parents in the process of improving    considered in (c).                              60 projects for 1997-    Textbook Provision: Books
education: and (d) permit central and mid-level                                                        98; identify 30         purchased and distributed to
ministry personnel to benefit from feedback on     Textbook Provision: (a) purchase, reprinting,, and  additional projects for    primary schools as
policies, strategies, and programs.                distribution of approximately 2,250,000 textbooks   1998-2000, complete    scheduled; textbook use and
to primary schools; and (b) purchase and           120 school-initiated     maintenance systems in
Textbook Provision: (a) purchase, reprint, and     distribution of approximately 41,000 teachers'      projects.               place.
distribute an initial stock of approximately       guides
2,250,000 primary school textbooks; and (b)                                                            Textbook Provision:
approximately 41,000 teachers' guides.                                                                 (a) school year 1996-7:
production,reprintiong,
and distribution of
2,288,000 textbooks,
and 41,000 teacher
guides.



ANNEX X
Page 2 of 2
Develop Better System Management
Government          Project Component and Activities                 Expected Results/Impact                                Timing/Targets                     Indicators          Responsible
Objectives                                                                                                                                                                         Agency
Develop a          Finance (a) technical assistance to establish     Development of decentralized (regionally-based)        First phase: establishment of      Timely payment    Directorate of
decentralized      regional school boards and develop criteria for   approach for hiring and supervising teachers, which    regional committees to manage      of salaries;        Personnel and
system for hiring    decentralized personnel management; (b) design of   would: (a) increase equity in teacher pay; (b) provide  ffund in five regions with    decreased teacher   Planning, Ministry
and supervising    financial and auditing procedures for decentralized    needed flexibility to allow system to manage its  agreement on agenda of activities    absenteeism;      of Finance (for
teachers           payment of auxiliary teachers; (c) evaluation ofthe    personnel efficiently; and (c) allow the percentage of  and responsibilities;                            secondary school
participation of regional school boards in       non-salary operating expenditures in the education                                                            teachers).
management decisions; (d) training of financial  budget to increase.                                                                                           regional boards
managers; (e) regional-and central-level audits; (f)
operating expenditures of the regional school
boards, and (g) ongoing studies, including a
functional audit of MENRS personnel.
Increase MENRS    Information System: Develop a computer systems    Produce a database at the inspectorate level to: determine   Statistical yearbook produced  Availability and   Directorate of
capacity to create   support unit within the MENRS to provide support   construction and maintenance priorities, aid decisions  before the end of the 1994-5   use of personnel    Planning
personmel data     for information needs within the school statistics,    regarding teachcr deployment, and inform the policy-  school year and for each       data sheets and     (including school
sheets and school   school mapping. and personnel units.             making process. Database would include information     subsequent year                    school maps at the   mapping) and
maps at the                                                          on (a) teacher qualifications, experience, placement, and    School maps created and updated    inspectorate.  DAC
inspectorate.                                                        utilization; (b) school-aged population of each        annually                           regional. and
regional, and                                                        inspectorate; (c) number and condition of classrooms:                                     national levels
national levels.                                                     (d) availability oftextbooks and other teaching materials:
(e) enrollment figures; (f) catchment areas: and (g)
shortage or excess of student places.
Strengthen         Budgetary Programming and Monitoring:             (a) preparation of budgetary programming models, (b)   Produce sectoral budget, including   Development of    Directorates of        a
capacity to         Strengthen the capacity of staff to: (a) analyze  establishment of standard operating procedures and    line items, during long sclool     budgetary           Personnel and
participate        current spending pattems; (b) prepare and defend  reorganization of communication and information flow   vacation (July-September) for the    software;         Planning
constructively in    operating and investment budgets; (c) monitor and    pattems; (c) training of staffon the use of basic budget  1995-6 school year and for  availability of    (Budgetary
the budget         analyze actual expenditures against budgetary     models; (d) provision of computers. office equipment,  subsequent years.                  stafftraining       Division)
arbitration process   allocations in the context of future budget    and supplies; (e) provision of short-term technical
preparation.                                     assistance.
Consolidate gains   Consolidation of the Ministerial Restructuring:  (a) define specific priorities and objectives for each  School year 1995-1996: define     Train 3500 staff.    Minister's Cabinet
from restructuring.  Provide training to: (a) help inspectors and    operational unit; (b) establish position descriptions and    objectives and management tools;   increase in
pedagogic counselors develop new roles in support   work programs for all personnel; (c) create operating  final job descriptions, work    number of
of the instructional leadership function of school  and information flow procedures; (d) improve the work    programs and communications   classroom visits
directors; (b) help school directors understand and    methods and practices of ministerial staff at all levels  procedures adopted by July 1997  by school
participate in the new role of inspectors and                                                                                              directors
pedagogic counselors.



68
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION PLAN
1.     IDA Supervision Input. Regular supervision needs are described in Table I of this Annex. In
addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, terms of reference, annual plans, audits, and
procurement and disbursement actions, are estimated to require 8 staff weeks of various specialist inputs a
year which are not included in Table 1.
2.     Borrower's Contribution to Supervision. The monitoring and evaluation of project progress and
outcomes would be integrated with the monitoring system established in the MENRS with the overall
responsibility assigned to the Steering Committee.  IDA-specific implementation matters, such as
procurement, disbursements and project accounting would be handled by the DAF, is located in the
Planning Directorate.
(a)   Proeress Reports would be submitted twice a year, in January and July. They would
include a summary of implementation under each project component, financial statements
on project expenditures, updated project implementation and procurement schedules, as
well as the status of contract advertising, bidding, awards and completion dates and
compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement. The Steering
Committee, in collaboration with the DAF, would collect inputs from each responsible
MENRS directorate and prepare the reports.
(b)   Joint Annual Reviews. Once a year, around November, the Steering Committee would
organize a joint IDA/Government review of project implementation based on: (i) the
progress report in the above paragraph which, for the purposes of the annual review, would
also include (ii) an annual work program and budget for the next academic year; (iii) a
draft budget for the overall education sector for the next year; and (iv) the status of policy
and project monitoring indicators as listed in Annex X. These reviews would include
broad representation of stakeholders and donors. During these joint reviews, progress
achieved in implementing the pilot schools initiative would be monitored.
(c)   Mid-Term Review. The Steering Committee, together with the DAF, would carry out not
later than 30 months after credit effectiveness, a mid-term review of the progress made in
canying out the project. They would cover all aspects of the project, with a special focus
on: (i) MENRS's functioning; (ii) progress in implementing policy measures and their
impact on staffing, cost and efficiency of the system; (iii) progress with the recruitment and
payment of auxiliary teachers; (iv) progress achieved in and lessons learned from the
quality schools initiative; (v) progress of school construction and rehabilitation; (vi) the
upkeep and maintenance of textbooks; (vii) training of personnel; and the introduction of a
decentralized Education Support Fund to be managed at the regional level. The mid-term
review would also be conducted with other donors affiliated with the project (e.g.
European Union, African Development Bank) and would review progress in the
implementation of their programs.
(d)   The Steering Committee would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA
supervision missions and participating in the mission with them.
(e)   Implementation Completion Report. Within six months of the Credit closing date, a
completion report, prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA,
would be transmitted to IDA.



69
ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 3
Table 1: IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
PERIOD    ACTIVITY                                         SKILL                         STAFF INPUT
REQUIREMENTS                            (staff-weeks)
PROJECT       Project Launch Workshop        Civil Works/implementation                           2
Year I                                     Education                                            2
Project Management                                  2
Textbooks                                           2
Resident Mission                                    2
Supervision Mission           Education                                            2
Project Management                                  2
Implementation                                      2
Resident Mission                                    2
1st Joint Annual Review       Civil Works/Implementation                           2
Education                                           2
Project Management                                  2
Textbook                                             2
Resident Mission                                    2
PROJECT        Supervision Mission           Civil Works/Implementation                           2
Year 2                                     Education                                            2
Project Management                                  2
Resident Mission                                    2
2nd Joint Annual Review       Civil Works/Implementation                           2
Education                                           2
Project Management                                  2
Resident Mission                                    2
2
PROJECT       Supervision Mission            Civil Works/implementation                           2
Year 3                                     Education                                            2
Project Management                                  2
Textbook                                             2
Resident Mission                                    2
Mid-Term Review               Civil Works/ Implementation                          2
Education                                           2
Project Management                                  2
Textbook Specialist                                  2
Resident Mission                                    2
3rd Joint Annual Review       Civil Works/Implementation                           2
Education                                           2
Project Management                                  2
Resident Mission                                    2



70
ANNEX XI
Page 3 of 3
PERIOD    ACTIVITY                                        SKILL                        STAFF INPUT
REQUIREMENTS                           (staff-weeks)
PROJECT       Supervision                   Civil Works/Implementation                          2
Year 4                                     Education                                           2
Project Management                                  2
Textbooks                                           2
Resident Mission                                    2
4th Joint Annual Review       Education                                           2
Project Management                                  2
Implementation                                      2
Resident Mission                                    2
PROJECT       Supervision Mission           Civil Works/Implementation                          2
Year 5                                    Education                                           2
Project Management                                 2
Resident Mission                                    2
2
5th Joint Annual Review      Civil Workslimplementation                          2
Education                                           2
Project Management                                  2
Resident Mission                                    2
Project Completion
(to be determined)



71
ANNEX XII
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar of Activities
(...=preparation, design, bidding/selection, etc.; x=planned period of implementation)
Project Years
Project Element                          Pre-
Project       I         2         3          4          5
1. DEVELOP BETTER SCHOOLS
A. School Construction and Rehabilitation
*  Develop program of maintenance and upkeep            ...         ..x
*  Develop construction/rehabilitation norms             ...        ..x
*  Production of standard documentation on propositions    ...      ..x
for school infrastructure
*  Prepare bidding documents for works                   ...X        x           x          x       ... x
* Contract for verification firm                                    x            x       .... x     ....x
* Construct 360 classrooms                                          xxxx    xxxx    xxxx    xxxx
* Rehabilitate 440 classrooms                                       xxxx    xxxx    xxxx    xxxx
B. Texabook Provision
* Prepare bidding documents
  Develop technical/pedagogic specifications                  ...x  ..x
*  Production/Reprinting of Textbooks.and Teachers'            .... . .x   .  x              x      .......x
Guides for Primary and Lower Secondary Schools
*  Distribution of Textbooks and Teachers' Guides                        x x   xxx       x xxx    x xxx    xxxx
* Teachertrainingonbookuse                                            xx       xxxx    xxxx    xxxx    xxxx
*  Construction of textbook storage facilities                      ...xx xx
C. Quality Schools Initiative
- Select and orient school survey/research teams                    ... x
*  Identify local constraints as well as innovative                 ........x
approaches to deal with them
*  Select school personnel to participate n selection of              ....x
pilot schools
*  Identify pilot schools                                           ...       ..x
*  Carryout Action Research Programs                                     x x   xxxx    xxxx    xxxx    x x x x
*  Evaluate pilot schools' activities                                  x          x         x          x          x
* Training of Teachers                                                 x          x         x          x         x
*  Seminars /Workshops                                                 x          x         x          x         x



72
ANNEX XII
Page 2 of 6
Project Years
Project Element                            Pre-
Project       I          2          3          4           5
11. DEVELOP BETTER SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
A. Decentralized Recruitment and Financing of Teachers
*  Recruit Auxiliary teachers -  Primary                                  ...x                  ...x ...x  ...x        ...x
*  Evaluation of Education Support Fund preparation                       ...x       ...x       ...x       ...x        ...x
*  Carryoutsemi-annualauditsofauxiliaryteacher                           x  x       x  x        x  x       x  x       x  x
payment
B. Information System
*    Creation of computer systems support unit                               A
*    Develop program of computerized data management                        .... x
*    Training of personnel                                                   x          x          x
*    Conduct studies                                                         x          x          x
*    Workshops (Inspection Level)                                            x          x          x
C. Budgetary Programming and Monitoring
*  Prepare budgetary programming models                                 ..x
*  Establish standard operating procedures                              .....x
*  Reorganize inter-departmental and inter-ministerial                  .......x
communications and information flow pattems
*  Train regional and prefecture staff on use of basic                     xx         xx                               xx
budget models
*  Carry out studies                                                       x          x                                 x
*    Recruitment of short-tern     TA   as needed  for Training          ..........  ..........  ..........  ..........  ..........
Seminars and Working Group Sessions
D. Consolidation of Ministerial Restructuring
*  Develop job descriptions                                 ... x        Xx
*  Recruit TA and training specialists to assist in derining             x x x x   . x x x     x x x x
training programs
*  Periodic annual training seminars for school directors,                ..x
pedagogic counselors, inspectors and teacher trainers
*  Training of staff of Examinations Directorate                          ...x
*  Study visits in neighboring African countries                          ... x
x          x          x



73
ANNEX XII
Page 3 of 6
Implementation Schedule:Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(including contingencies, taxes and duties, in USS million; (Q=Quantity)
Project Years
Project Element                 Pre-
Project       1          2          3         4         5       Payment         Remarks
Credit Timing (tentative dates)
* Board                                   x
* Signing                                  x
* Effectiveness                                 x
WORKS
Architects' Contracting                        x
Construction of 360 classrooms
Design (Q)                                            (90)        (90)       (90)      (90)
Contracting (Q)                                       (90)        (90)       (90)      (90)
Construction (Q)                                      (90)        (90)       (90)      (90)                 (360)           NCB
1.4        1.5        1.5       1.6                  6.0
Rehabilitation of 440 classrooms
Design (Q)                                            (110)      (110)      (110)     (110)
Contracting (Q)                                       (110)       (110)     (110)     (110)
Rehabilitation (Q)                                    (110)       (110)     (110)     (110)                 (440)           NCB
0.6        0.6        0.6       0.6                   2.4
Construction of Book Storage Facilities
Design (Q)                                            (35)
Contracting (Q)                                       (35)
Construction(Q)                                       (35)                                                  (35)            NCB
0.2                                                   0.2
GOODS
Proc. Special Contracting                      x
Preparation of Bidding Documents               x
Bidding and Contracting                        x
Vehicles                                                 0.3                                                   0.3
Other imported Goods (office and                         0.5         0.1       0.07                            0.7      ICB; $0.1 million
communications equipment)                                                                                               under Local
Shopping/lAPSO
TEXTBOOKS AND TEACHERS' GUIDES
Reprinting of Primary School Textbooks               (1,764,730)                                            (1,764,730)  ICB
3.7                                                   3.7
Purchase of Primary School Textbooks                  (483,013)                                             (483,013)  ICB
1.4                                                   1.4
Production and Reprinting of Teachers' Guides         (40,868)                                               (40,868)   ICB
- Primary Level                                          0.1                                                   0.1
Textbook Production - Lower Secondary                 (507,000)                                             (507,000)  ICB
5.0                                                   5.0
Production of Teachers' Guides - Lower                 (19,600)                                              (19,600)   ICB
Secondary                                                0.2                                                   0.2
Distribution of Primary School Textbooks &               0.5                                                   0.5      NCB
Teachers' Guides
Distribution of Lower Secondary Textbooks &              0.01                                                  0.01     LIMUSCO
Teachers' Guides
Textbook Maintenance - Lower Secondary                 (24,841)    (49,683)  (74,525)  (99.366)  (99,366)   (149,049)
0.3        0.5        0.9       1.2       1.2         4.1



74
ANNEX XII
Page 4 of 6
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
Project Years
Project Element                 Pre-
Project       1           2         3          4         5       Payment         Remarks
CONSULTANT SERVICES
Preparation of TORs                            x           x           x                              x
Short Lists                                    x           x           x                              x
Selection and Contracting                      x           x           x                              x
Foreign Specialists                                       0.3         0.2       0.2       0.2        0.2          1.1     IDA Consultant
Local Specialists                                         0.6         0.7      0.6        0.6        0.6         3.1      Guidelines
Studies                                                   0.08        0.08     0.07       0.06       0.06        0.35
Training abroad                                           0.05        0.05      0.02                             0.1
. MISCELLANEOUS.
Local Training and Seminars                               0.7         0.7      0.7        0.4        0.4         2.9
Teachers' Salaries
* Primary Level                                         2.5         2.7       2.8       2.9        2.9         13.8
Operating Costs                                           0 1         0.2       0.2       0.2        0.2         0.9
Refinancing of PPF Advance                                0.4                                                    0.4
TOTAL                     187          73       77 7      78          56         471
(IDA-Financed)                  (17.6)       (5.9)   | (6.0)     (4.4)      (2.7)      (36.6)
Note: Slight differences may occur as a result of the rounding of figures.



75
ANNEX XII
Page 5 of 6
Detailed Schedule of Technical Assistance Activities
Project Years
Duration     Type of
Project Element                    1   2   3   4   5   (month=m    Consultant
_    ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ; day=d)
A. School Construction and Rehabilitation
* Preparation of bidding documents                  x                 x    I m          Int'l.
* Establishment of norms and procedures for classroom    x                  I m         Int'l.
construction/rehabilitation
* Training on school building maintenance           x   x   x   x   x    5 m            Nat'l.
B. Textbook Provision
* Development of technical and pedagogic textbook   x                      3 m          Int'l.
specifications, including the preparation of bidding
documents, computerization of book stocks
* Training of teachers on textbook use/maintenance  x                       I m         Nat'l.
C. Quality Schools In-Service Training
* Evaluation of Quality School Program; training of  x   x   x   x   x    10 m          Int'l.
local team
* Identification of pilot schools and survey design;  x   x   x   x   x   90 m          Nat'l.
development of action plans; workshops/seminars; and
in-service teacher training and training for school
directors
D. Decentralized Recruit. and Financing of Teachers
* Development of operational procedures for         x   x   x   x   x   25 m            Nat'l.
decentralized Education Support Fund, including
training/supervision, evaluation
* Bi-annual audits                                  x   x   x   x   x    loim           Int'l.
E. Information and Communication System
* Definition and evaluation of work programs;       x   x             x   24 m;         Nat'l.;
development of computerized system (data base) for   x   x          x    12 m         Int'l.
school statistics, school mapping and personnel;
training on computer information system management   _



76
ANNEX XI1
Page 6 of 6
Detailed Schedule of Technical Assistance
Project Years
Duration     Type of
Project Element                    1   2   3   4   5   (month=m    Consultant
; day=d)
F. Budgetary Programming and Monitoring
* Preparation of budgetary programming modules; and    x   x          x   8 m;          Int'l.
establishment of standard operating procedures;   x   x             x    10 m         Nat'l.
reorganization of inter-departmental and inter-
ministerial communication and information flow
patterns
* Training of regional and prefecture staff on use of  x   x   x   x   x   5m;          Int'l;
basic budget modules                              x   x   x              3m           Nat'l.
G. Consolidation of Ministerial Restructuring
* Development of job descriptions for central ministry,    x   x           32m;         Nat'l;
regional and prefectoral personnel; identification of    x   x           4            Int'l.
training needs and development/implementation of
training programs; computerization of Examination
and Testing Directorate
* Carry out annual audit of project                 x   x   x   x   x   5m              Int'l
Detailed Summary of Studies and Research Activities
Project Years
Project Element                     1    2    3
A. School Construction and Rehabilitation
* Study on Construction and Rehabilitation Needs     x
B. Budgetary Programming and Monitoring
* Studies on the financing of education              x    x



77
ANNEX XIII
Page 1 of 1
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
(net of taxes and duties, in US$ million equivalent)
PROJECT                        DISBURSEMENT                           DISBURSEMENT AS A               Regional
YEAR        SEMESTER          IN SEMESTER         CUMULATIVE          PERCENTAGE OF                Profile (%)
_               [_ . _ _ ___          _   _          _TOTAL                                  Togo
1        Effectiveness           0.2                 0.2                  .5%                       0%
2                 4.4                 4.6                   12%                       3%
2             3                  8.6                 13.2                  36%                      10%
4                 6.0                 19.2                  52%                      14%
3             5                  2.9                 22.1                  60%                      22%
6                 3.0                 25.1                  68%                      26%
4              7                 3.0                 28.1                  77%                      34%
8                 2.4                 30.5                  83%                      42%
5             9                  2.2                 32.7                  89%                      50%
10                 2.3                35.0                  96%                      58%
6             11                  1.3                36.3                  99%                      66%
12                 0.3                36.6                  100%                     74%
7             13                                                                                    86%
14                                                                                   94%
8             15                                                                                    98%
16                                                                                   100%
Closing date June 30, 2001.



78
ANNEX XIV
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
EVALUATION CRITERIA FOR MID-TERM REVIEW
School Construction and Rehabilitation
(a)  the construction unit within the Ministry of Education will have completed an in-
depth report on classroom construction and rehabilitation needs, including cost
estimates, selection and evaluation criteria, and procurement guidelines;
(b)  norms and procedures for classroom construction and rehabilitation will have been
established;
(c)  330 classrooms will have been rehabilitated; and
(d)  270 classrooms will have been replaced.
2.    Textbooks
(a)  primary school textbooks (Math and French) will have been purchased and
distributed at a 1:1 textbook/student ratio, with books being used appropriately in
schools;
(b)  a minimum of 75 percent of primary school teachers and principals will have
received in-service training in textbook use and maintenance;
(c)  working rental systems will be in place in all lower secondary schools (colleges);
(d)  books will have been purchased and distributed to lower secondary schools as
scheduled on a 1:2 textbook/student ratio; and
(e)  criteria for inspectors evaluating school directors will have been rewritten to
include successful management of a textbook rental/maintenance system (effective
use by students with minimal loss or damage).
3.    Quality Schools Initiative
(a)  a technical assistance team (composed of eight Togolese researchers) will have
been established and trained, and will be able to provide support to the project
(training sessions, research assistance, and information dissemination), in
collaboration with the consultants;
(b)  the Quality Schools Initiative sub-committee of the national steering committee
will have been established and will be meeting regularly;



79
ANNEX XIV
Page 2 of 4
(c)  13 action-research programs will have been completed, with action plans
developed as per identified problems; i.e. girls' participation, grade repetition and
dropout, teacher supervision, formative evaluation, the use of teaching materials,
and community participation in school finances;
(d)  initial in-service teacher training, in selected schools, will have been conducted,
based on the results of the 13 action-research projects;
(e)  selected school directors will have received training in teacher supervision and
will be actively engaged in teacher supervision as per an agreed calendar of visits;
(f) 30 new projects (governmental and non-governmental) will have been selected by
the Quality Schools Initiative sub-committee; and
(g)  3 thematic reports will have been submitted to the national steering committee
dealing with issues mentioned in (iii).
4.     Informnation Systems
(a)  operational responsibilities for data collection and analysis in the following areas
will be clearly defined: school atlas, statistical yearbook, personnel files;
(b)  school Mapping and Planning personnel will have successfully completed the
following data bases for the 1992 and 1993 school years: a school atlas, a
computerized statistical yearbook, and a computerized personnel file;
(c)  information needs and the means for satisfying them will be defined for the 1994
school year, including: gender-disaggregated data, comparative grade repetition
data, achievement testing (with preliminary sampling under way in one region);
(d)  training of DRA personnel to prepare custom-designed DBase programs will be
under way with measurable results;
(e)  evidence that capacities developed through this component are being used for
decision-making will include: design of the adjustment operation, decisions
regarding sites for new construction, reconciliation of personnel files for the 1993
school year between Ministry of Education and Ministry of Civil Service; and
(f)   a dissemination calendar will be in place, with information widely distributed to
sectoral officials, school and regional personnel, media, donors, and appropriate
Government personnel;
(g)  electronic mail communications will have been installed within the Ministry and
will be in regular use.



80
ANNEX XIV
Page 3 of 4
5.     Decentralized Recruitment and Financing of Teachers
(a)  all auxiliary teachers will be receiving timely payment of monthly salaries;
(b) Government and community contributions will be available and used as planned;
(c)  audits will be received on time;
(d)  training for 75 percent of financial managers at the regional and prefectoral levels
will have been carried out
(e)  proposed studies will have been carried out on schedule.
6.     Budgetary Programming and Monitoring
(a)  evidence of use of the budgetary model in support of sectoral decision-making
processes will include preparation of the 1996 and 1997 investment and operating
budgets;
(b)  budget execution for the 1996 and 1997 school years will be effectively monitored
by region and by inspection in accordance with the budgetary model; and
(c)  general operating norms will be in place and generally known and understood
throughout the sector.
7.     Consolidation of Ministerial Restructuring (including Project Management)
(a)  initial training of all inspectors and pedagogic advisors will be completed;
inspectors and pedagogic advisors will in turn have completed training 50 percent
of all school directors in classroom supervision techniques;
(b)  job descriptions will be completed for all central ministry personnel, with training
needs identified and a specific training calendar established for the following two
years;
(c)  the development of job descriptions and information communication procedures
will have begun for regional and prefectoral personnel;
(d)  initial computerization of the Examination and Testing Directorate will be
completed;
(e)  additional needs will have been identified and an appropriate training program
established for personnel of the Examination and Testing Directorate and for
teachers, directors, and inspectors involved in test item construction and
corrections;



81
ANNEX XIV
Page 4 of 4
(f)  all central Directorates will be routine participants in sectoral decision-making, as
evidenced by participation in the MENRS Steering Committee, which will have a
track record showing timely decision-making, regular twice-monthly meetings,
and timely dissemination of minutes;
(g)  preliminary  steps toward  decentralization  will have been  identified  and
implemented;
(h)  there will be clear evidence of the effectiveness of specialists recruited for the
project: proof of technology transfer to national staff, a demonstrable success rate
for in-service training programs, a history of quick identification and deployment
of competent technical specialists;
(i)  the level of performance of the project coordinator will correspond to the
evaluation criteria defined in his terms of reference, including fulfillment of his
primary role of coordinating the different components of the project;
(j)  audits will have been completed in a timely fashion, with satisfactory evidence of
appropriate accounting; and
(k)  the Special Account will be up-to-date, with timely replenishment and appropriate
supporting documentation.






IBRD 26027R
Teo<,                    BURKINA FASO                                                        A A L I
.'                                                                                                             N I  G E R
DAPAONG       . MoRdouK RRINA                                                             ,'
Mr                                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
F  X V A N N A            j            B E N  I N                       GHANA '                   NEI
|           _ ,,                                             _ _    _  _    _ _    __,J_             _
-10'                                   1 ' j                                     10_  
GHANA   ( \    _-k                                             I
@ !''>';1\,-i ..............,  .T    O G    O
(Genmn4ouLoO                     Rpisro en.EDUCATION REHABILITATION
K A RA- S.l  R ARA.                                  PROJECT
) u Bolilo \ - ~~~~~MAIN ROADS
ROUTES PRINCIPALES
tj   <   -<T         \              -   - SELECTED SECONDARY ROADS
['   jTL  /       \                ROUTES SECONDAIRES CHOISIES
,1         X                              *5  K   j       MAIN RIVERS                        r
9                                                          *                                   COURS D'EAU IMPORTANTS
o    SELECTED TOWNS
t       z         .            ;             ~~~~~~~~~~~VltUES CHOtSlES  
PREFECTURE CAPITALS             J
CHEFS-LIEUX DE PREFECTURE
-               J            ~~~~~~~REGION CAPITALS
N.   h  T R A                              C CHEFS-LIEUX DE REGION
1% f sO0uoU]     NATIONAL CAPTAI
\_  J e Z ! Q  ,, A . . \     y             ~~~CAPITALE
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES          (
BI,tto                   q               LIMITES DE PREFECTURES
,  ,                                       REGION BOUNDARIES
ilMITES DE REGIONS
*0 iLoo~uo              |         _'-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
8  5                 R    :                j              FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
' 'zVA v5                                   j                FThe boundories, colors ,           c
denommnations and ony
K  AAPAME                               other-nformation thown         1.    fl
4                            ~~~~~~~~~~On thi5 mop do not
imply, on the part of
*.....,...,        P LA T E . A                               The World Bank Groom.          r
any judigment on the legal
status of ony territory!
* I     (' ,  ' . - i *                   ,               or any endorsement
(1/    .   Vt                       a or acceptance of such
70n  . r t talime   i   -   -          T o nsrj              bo u n docries
4>      ks Ti            tNol-     __                         _|__)
0        25       51)       75       1c0
iI\(    M  A  R  I I f j^> <t,,beb  KILOMETERS
K      V         \     '.        AIvre   \                                         / ' cko
ToAn-   -"LOME
O'                                       1                                          2
MAY 1995









IMAGING
Report No;       13646 TO
Type: SAR



