Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22804
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27520; PPFI-P7520; PPFI-P7521)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.3 MILLION (US$36.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR AN
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 18, 2002
Human Development 3/AFC13
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/26/2001)
Currency Unit = FCFA
FCFA 100 = US$ 0.14
US$ I = FCFA 734
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CP                   Pedagogical Advisors (Conseillers Pedagogiques)
DCA                  Development Credit Agreernent
EDIL                 Quality School Initiative (Ecole d'initiative libre)
EU                   European Union
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
MENRS                Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research (Ministere de
l'Education Nationale et de la Recherche Scientifique)
MIS                  Management Information System
MTR                  Mid-term Review
NGO                  Non-governmental Organization
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
PTA                  Parent-Teacher Association
QER                  Quality at Entry Review
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:  Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:   Alexandre V. Abrantes
Task Team Leader:    Ayite-Fily d'Ahneida



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TOGO
Education Rehabilitation Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                 11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                14
9. Partner Comments                                                               17
10. Additional Information                                                        24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             33
Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Evaluation                                         34
Map IBRD 29364
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002889                                      Project Name: Education Rehabilitation Project
Team Leader: Ayite-Fily D'Almeida                        TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: March 18, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Education Rehabilitation Project              L/C/TF Number: IDA-27520;
PPFI-P7520;
PPFI-P7521
Country/Department: TOGO                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/17/92                               Effective: 01/29/96          03/29/96
Appraisal:  06/01/92                                 MTR: 06/01/98              01/25/99
Approval:  06/28/95                               Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MIN. OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Antoinette M. Sayeh                       Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Alexandre V. Abrantes                     Ian C. Porter
Team Leader at ICR:  Ayite-Fily d'Almeida                      Bettina Ursel Moll
ICR Primary Author:  Michael J. Wilson
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Eintry: U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
A Quality Review was done in 1996 before the official QAG reviews started.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective of the project was to reverse the decline in enrolment and quality of
education, focusing on primary education. The expected outcomes were: an increased supply of primary
school teachers at lower cost, rehabilitated schools, greater availability of textbooks at the primary and
lower secondary levels, and improved instruction, in-service teacher training and system management.
The development objective reflects the priorities of the Government and those outlined in the
Bank's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy. Any assessment of the objective and project design must be
evaluated against the difficult political, social and economic environment that the country had experienced
for many years. During the 1980s, Togo implemented a series of adjustment measures, including a freeze
on civil service recruitment which affected the education sector. Economic growth rebounded but social
upheaval followed in the early 1990s due to political and election issues. The 1992 election was cancelled,
a general strike ensued, violence broke out and thousands of schools were vandalized. GDP declined
steeply as did public revenues which fell by 47 percent during 1992-1993 alone, resulting in an
accumulation of salary arrears. Real per capita income fell by 25 percent in the early 1990s to below the
level of the early 1980s. The European Union and other donors discontinued their assistance. At the time
of Credit effectiveness in 1995, GDP growth had rebounded but the political environment continued to be
highly unstable and the economic situation remained fragile. These conditions persisted, and in some cases,
worsened during the life of the project. In addition, due to arrears owed to the Bank, the latter suspended
disbursements to Togo from November 14, 2000 to August 15, 2001.
Within this context, the development objective of the project was satisfactory and sought to provide
an emergency response to reverse the decline in education services by focusing on basic inputs. These
included rehabilitated infrastructure, the provision of additional school places, books, and teachers.
However, the design of the project was too complex for the implementation environment and encountered
major difficulties as a result. Its complexity resulted from the range of policy and institutional issues it
addressed, the number of project activities, and the number and type of innovations to be introduced. The
policy-related changes that the project sought -- notably significantly greater reliance on contractual
teachers, and the book rental system -- were high risk in terms of appropriate financial management and
controls, the political backing they required, and the capacity to implement them. The effort to promote
innovation and change at the school level through a program of action research, small grants and teacher
training was complex given the context of inadequate resources, the paucity of basic inputs and the
prevalence of untrained teachers. It was also unrealistic to attempt to introduce fundamental structural
and management reforms in the sector at a time when the ministry's efforts were entirely devoted to
emergency rebuilding. The attempt to combine emergency relief and major sector adjustment and
innovation was a significant design flaw and did not take into account the capacity of the sector to
adequately respond, even to the emergency situation. Further, the design failed to clarify how most project
activities and reforms were to be implemented. This led to a very slow start up as implementation
strategies were improvised.
The project was high risk. Most key risks were identified during project preparation, particularly
the unstable political environment which could delay implementation and result in inadequate budgetary
provision, the client's capacity to address broad institutional and fiscal issues, and low sectoral capacity.
These risks were to be addressed through the provision of technical assistance and close monitoring.
Neither were effective in mitigating the risks. An important risk that had not been identified was the
potential for misuse of funds posed by the teacher salary fund and the book rental system. This major risk
persisted throughout the life of the project.
- 2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
N.A.
3.3 Original Components:
A. Improvement of School Quality
The School Construction program aimed to rehabilitate 440 primary school classrooms and
construct 360 new ones. Classroom furniture had not been included in the original design and was added
later.
The Textbook program aimed to provide a set of French, Mathematics, and Science books to each
primary school student over the life of the project, one set of books for two students in secondary
education, and teacher's guides to all primary and secondary teachers. To achieve this, the project was to
finance the reprinting and distribution of 2,300,000 primary textbooks, 41,000 primary teachers guides,
510,000 lower-secondary books, 20,000 secondary teacher guides. The primary books were to be rented to
students at 200 FCFA per student, and the secondary books at 1,000 FCFA per student. The fees were to
be collected by school principals in collaboration with school textbook management committees. Eighty
percent of fees collected was to be sent to the National Ministry of Education and Scientific Research
(MENRS) and deposited in the budget as a line item for book replenishment. The remaining twenty percent
was to be kept at the school level for book storage and maintenance and to replace losses, under the
management of the school committee. The MENRS was also to put in place a computerized inventory and
control system to keep track of stocks and replenishment needs.
The Quality School Initiative contained three activities -- action research, small grants, and
in-service teacher training -- which were to improve quality of instruction by encouraging and
disseminating innovative instructional approaches developed at the school level by teachers and principals
with inputs from their communities. Fifty action research projects were to be developed in demonstration
primary schools to pilot instructional innovations that could be replicated on a wider scale. The results
were to be measured by exams and repetition rates. Small grants were to be awarded to up to 300 schools
in which teachers and principals had identified problem-solving approaches to teaching, instructional
management, and ways to adapt the curriculum to community needs. Over the life of the project, all
primary school teachers were to receive in-service training on the use of the textbooks and the lessons
learned from the action research and small grants programs. The operational linkages between the action
research, small grants program, and in-service training were never made explicit. Rather, they were to be
developed in the light of experience.
B. Better Education Management
The Decentralized Recruitment of Auxiliary Teachers and the Education Support Fund was
intended to meet the demand for teachers through IDA co-financing the salaries of some 4,200 low cost,
locally hired, non-civil service teachers on a declining basis (going from 80 percent to 40 percent of the
salary cost). The remainder was to be financed by Government through savings in the civil service payroll
due to attrition and by parents through school fees. These funds were to be deposited into an Education
Support Fund to ensure sustainability. Decentralized procedures for personnel management (recruitment,
personnel management and pay) that would lead to a more stable region-based approach to the hiring and
supervision of teachers were to be developed. Secondary teachers were to be redeployed to ensure a
minimum teaching load of twenty hours per week.
- 3 -



Information and Communication activities were intended to develop the capacity of the MENRS
in school mapping, education statistics, and personnel management by creating a computer support unit.
Programming and budgeting activities were intended to enable the MENRS to budget on the basis of
program objectives, strengthen the capacity of the MENRS to participate in budget arbitration, analyze
current spending pattems, and prepare and defend its operating and investment budgets on the basis of
norms and spending priorities. The MENRS was also to be restructured. The goals were to set priorities
and objectives for each operational unit, develop job descriptions, define work programs, improve
information flow, assist in the decentralization of MENRS operations to the five regional directorates, and
enhance the pedagogical role of inspectors. Technical assistance and training were to be provided to
support these initiatives.
Assessment. Most programs supported by the project were directly related to the achievement of
the development objective while others were less clearly so, particularly in the context of an emergency
response. The most pertinent programs included rehabilitated and new classrooms, the provision of books,
support for decentralized teacher recruitment and financing of their salaries, in-service teacher training, and
the improvement of education statistics. It was clear that communities were taking education in their own
hands and recruiting their own teachers. Bank support for cost-sharing with communities was an obvious
relief. Decentralization of teacher recruitment was also an appropriate strategy given the dysfunctional
civil service recruitment process and the inability of Government to recruit teachers for over ten years. It is
less clear how restructuring of the MENRS and the demonstration schools were expected to contribute to
the development objective, particularly within the context of an emergency response.
During the time of preparation, the project was fast tracked and the normal preparation time was
significantly reduced. As a result, the project was under-designed. Several components never acquired
sufficient clarity; various activities did not match the capacity of the actors to implement them; and
mitigation measures were inadequate. In the area of school construction, the designs reflected standards
that had been in use in Togo. However, the MENRS school construction unit lacked the capacity to
oversee a fast-paced emergency program. Further, as in many small countries with a limited pool of
expertise, the fimns contracted to draw up bills of quantity and carry out site supervision lacked the
technical proficiency needed. The Education Fund was innovative, untested in any country in the region,
and presented major challenges in terms of the decentralized recruitment, payment of teachers and flow of
funds. The management structure and procedures adopted were inappropriate and led to serious problems
of over-recruitment and further exacerbated salary arrears and fiscal pressures. No analysis had been
conducted on the affordability to parents of the textbook fees and teacher salary payments taking into
account the declining trend in real incomes. The attempt to introduce action research, school grants, and
in-service teacher training for all primary school teachers far exceeded the capacity of the teachers,
principals and the MENRS. In fact, these activities never acquired sufficient clarity to be implemented.
Further, initiating, piloting, and disseminating school-based innovations requires, at the least, trained and
motivated school principals and teachers, a strong, pedagogical support system, and an adequate and
sustained resource base - all of which were largely absent. Finally, asking the Ministry to reflect on its
future, implement decentralization, and radically revise its programming and budgeting practices was
inappropriate at the time when the Ministry's staff were preoccupied with trying to re-establish normal
operations in the aftermath of a major political, social, and economic crisis.
3.4 Revised Conmponents:
In line with the Africa Region's directive to retrofit all projects to address the emerging HIV/AIDS
crisis, the project was retrofitted in 2000 to include an HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention component.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
-4 -



A Quality at Entry Review (QER) of project preparation and initial supervision was conducted in
1996. The QER panel assessed quality at entry as unsatisfactory. Initial supervision was assessed as
unsatisfactory as well, considered inadequate in both skill mix and intensity. Although the Panel
acknowledged that the Project provided for continuity in the delivery of education services for many
disadvantaged communities, the unsatisfactory rating for quality at entry was based on the contradictory
objectives of the Project. The Panel noted that the Project dealt simultaneously with activities aimed at
providing quick relief (schools, books and teachers) and with issues which had important policy
dimensions, such as the establishment of the Education Support Fund to support the decentralized
recruitment and financing of teachers. The activities concerning school construction, textbooks, and
recruitment of auxiliary teachers were consistent with an emergency investment operation with short-term
development objectives. The other activities -- school quality initiative and sector management -- required
a longer term investment framework. Policy issues concerning the financing, employment status, and
management of the auxiliary teachers as well as the budgetary allocations to primary education could have
been addressed by a sector adjustment credit aimed at modifying the employment and working conditions
of teachers, as well as at shifting education expenditures towards primary education. The merger of these
activities into one operation resulted in an ambiguous project design characterized by uncertain policy
objectives, weak conditionality and implementation delays.
Quality at entry was also unsatisfactory from the point of view of conceptual clarity and
implementation responsibilities and arrangements, particularly in the cases of the Quality School Initiative
and the management improvement activities. This lack of clarity significantly affected implementation as
roles and responsibilities had to be continually re-defined and adjusted during implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Although no enrollment targets were established, the project did facilitate gains in primary
enrollments through the financing of auxiliary, non-civil service teachers. According to available data, in
1994/95 about 762,000 students were enrolled in primary school compared with an estimated one million
students in 2000, for a net increase of 238,000 primary students over the project period, a high annual
enrollment growth rate of 14.5 percent, part of which is explained by the continuing high proportion of
repeating students. It is unlikely that this growth rate could have been achieved without the significant
increase in the number of teachers, financed by the project. IDA's financing of an additional 4,200
auxiliary teachers allowed for an increased coverage of 168,000 students. However, the classroom
construction program increased access only marginally. The number of new places created by the
construction program is an estimated 23,000, with poor quality of works. On the other hand, the
spontaneous establishment of Community Schools (EDILs), entirely at the charge of local communities,
accounted for an estimated increase in enrollment of 120,000 students. The community schools benefited
from teachers financed by the project in the last two years of the project.
Cost reduction was not achieved. The number of auxiliary teachers recruited far exceeded the
numbers planned. Further, they were recruited at a higher education level than initially planned and their
salaries were soon raised to 90% of the salary of a civil service teacher. This resulted in significant
increases in the wage bill. Sustainable financing of auxiliary teachers was not achieved and the salary
support fund accumulated arrears.
There was no identifiable improvement in the quality of education. Although the acquisition of a
significant number of books met an important need, the primary textbooks were only delivered in the fourth
year of the project. Further, most of the auxiliary teachers hired did not receive any initial training and
- 5 -



little or no in-service training. IDA raised this as a key issue at the outset. However, despite repeated
commitments, it was never fully addressed by Government. Repetition rates remained high, and the share of
the education budget allocated to non-salary expenditure increased only from 1 percent to 2.3 percent,
falling far short of the 6 percent - 8 percent target. Consequently, schools lacked even the most basic
supplies.
The school quality and management components were never implemented on any scale and no
improvement can be noted in these areas.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Improvement of the Quality of Schools
Classroom construction and rehabilitation. By project closing, the number of new classrooms
exceeded the number planned (435 actual compared with 360 planned). However, classroom rehabilitation
fell 50 percent short of the targeted 440 classrooms and the rehabilitation manual was never finalized for
use. This is a significant shortcoming since the project intended to focus primarily on emergency
rehabilitation and to provide other donors and the education system more generally with guidance on
rehabilitation standards. In addition, the quality of both rehabilitation and new construction was
sub-standard due to insufficient technical and management oversight. A technical audit in 1998
documented deficiencies in supervision and quality of works, including weakened foundations, fissured
walls, and termite damage to untreated wood in about one-third of the sites sampled. Since no costed plan
for correcting these problems was prepared or implemented, it is likely that these classrooms are already in
need of rehabilitation.
Actual construction costs were 25 percent higher than estimated for the first group of classrooms
(US$ 3,500 for rehabilitation, US$ 12,000 for new classrooms, excluding latrines and offices). However,
by project closing the price had decreased to US$ 8,200 for new classrooms, slightly lower than the cost
estimated at appraisal. It is not clear why the price was higher initially, although this could be the result of
price increases that continued for a several years following the devaluation of the FCFA in 1994, the delay
in getting the program off the ground (18 months after effectiveness), and the energy crisis which hit in
1998 which delayed the construction program for several months, with small contractors struggling to
maintain their businesses.
Textbook Provision. Although 2,895,000 primary school books and 58,000 teacher guides had
been delivered by project closing, they were only received during the last year of the project in January
2001, a four year delay. The primary books had little impact on learning outcomes and access during the
project period. The delay in textbook provision was due to protracted negotiations with the publishing
companies that owned copyrights to the books currently in use. After years of deadlock, books were finally
procured off-the-shelf through International Competitive Bidding. At mid-term, the decision was taken to
build book stores in each prefecture since it was realized there would be insufficient storage capacity once
the books arrived. The stores were to serve as book repair shops in the summer and as reading rooms.
Transporting the books to and from the schools proved costly and inefficient, with the costs and
organization of transport falling on the communities. The use of these facilities was discontinued.
The provision of books for secondary schools was less complex because titles were selected from a
list and the books purchased off the shelf. The books were delivered in 1998. However, schools did not
receive the correct quantities and generally failed to provide storage and to establish procedures for
inventory control, leading to the loss of books. School principals and parents tried independently to
develop storage and management arrangements, some more satisfactory than others. IDA eventually
-6 -



approved the financing of shelving. More than half the books acquired did not adequately reflect the
curriculum then in place in Togo and teachers were not trained to use the new books.
The associated rental system did not achieve its objective of financing the replenishment of stocks
and created a source of considerable potential financial leakage that had a negative impact on the credibility
of the program. The book fees were never separated from other fees collected at the school level, most of
which were collected by government and co-mingled with the fund for the financing of auxiliary teachers.
Although the financial management specialist rang an alarm bell, the issues were not followed up by the
Bank team until much later. At mid-term, IDA recommended that 50 percent of the fees collected at the
school level remain there. It is highly unlikely that an adequate supply of textbooks will be maintained
without further extemal financing.
Quality Schools Initiative. The action research and small grants programs never got off the
ground due to a lack of clarity in both concept and design, unclear articulation of the two programs and a
lack of interest on the part of the Borrower which found the whole approach too complex and theoretical.
Insufficiently supervised by the Bank, the initiative got bogged down in the lengthy preparation of manuals
and procedures which took two years to develop. Themes intended for action research were either over
ambitious (e.g., introducing formative evaluation) or poorly identified. The exception was girls' schooling -
a major issue as the 1996 Poverty Assessment noted.
The action research was intended to provide the basis for the development of interventions to be
financed by the school grants program. If successful, these were to be disseminated through in-service
teacher training. By 1999, no school proposals had yet been identified although inspectors and pedagogical
counselors had received training in the research methodology. Finally, it was then decided to give the
community schools access to the research funds, assisted by NGOs. By project closing, a viable action
research proposal related to girls' schooling had been identified. Unfortunately, by that time the Credit
was under suspension and the proposal was never implemented.
The chief aim of the in-service teacher training program was to introduce new methods and
approaches derived from the action research program but it also aimed at training teachers to use the new
textbooks. Training never got off the ground since new methods and approaches were never identified and
the textbooks arrived too late in the project. Neither the Borrower nor the Bank succeeded in
operationalizing the vague concept of the action research program or in linking the findings of action
research and school level initiatives to in-service teacher training and improved classroom instruction,
mainly because no generalizable innovations were identified.
B.     Better Education Management
Decentralized Recruitment ofAuxiliary Teachers and the Education Support Fund. The total
number of teachers recruited was double that expected. Moreover, rather than setting a fixed salary, as
initially recommended, payment was linked to educational level. Consequently, because many teachers
were recruited with relatively high levels of qualification, the objective of low unit costs was never achieved
and the auxiliary salary bill ballooned, increasing the overall cost of primary education, rather than
reducing it. The fund for financing the teacher salaries never worked properly. It was to be financed by
IDA (on a declining basis, from 80 percent to 40 percent over five years), by govemment through
anticipated savings in civil service salaries due to attrition, and by the communities through school fees, on
the basis of detailed calculations made pre-appraisal. Unfortunately, little attention was given to defining
the operating procedures of the fund. The Fund got underway in 1996 with temporary procedures and an
incomplete personnel file on auxiliary teachers (which took two years to be corrected). Under these
- 7 -



procedures, the MENRS determined the individual payments, a private firm printed pay slips which were
sent to government paymasters at the prefectoral level who then paid the teachers in cash. Given the lack
of transparency and growing irregularities, the ministries of finance and civil service took over the
payments. Meanwhile, the financial stability of the fund declined. The savings from deaths and
retirements proved to have been seriously over estimated while the commnunity school fees were deposited
in a central account in the Treasury, without documentation and adequate controls. Government
accumulated substantial arrears in the social security payments it was to make on behalf of the auxiliary
teachers as well as being deficient in its own contributions to the fund, while at the same time permitting
overall salary arrears to accumulate. In 1997, the Borrower passed a law that broadened authorized
expenditure from the Fund to include financing of construction, equipment and materials at all levels of the
education system. This was contrary to the agreement with IDA that the Fund was to be used exclusively
for the payment of auxiliary primary teacher salaries. The Bank did not take any action on this until much
later.
By the time of the project's Mid-Term Review in early 1999, containment of auxiliary teacher
numbers and the consequent impact on the wage bill had become a major issue. The number of auxiliary
teachers had reached 6,790, a 57 percent increase over the number expected (4,250) by project end. Under
the provisions of the new law, Government began to recruit auxiliary teachers at other levels of education,
resulting in a total of 8,600 teachers by mid-2000. In terms of budgetary impact, the cost savings expected
from the lower salaries paid to the auxiliary teachers did not materialize. The auxiliary wage bill reached
FCFA 8.7 billion for 1999, compared with FCFA 6.3 billion the previous year. While it was clear that IDA
would reduce its share of the cost, it remained unclear how government could make up the shortfall. Salary
savings from civil service attrition were far less than expected and government's plan to levy taxes on
common commodities (sugar, fuel, etc.) fell through in the context of falling fanmily incomes. To cover the
shortfall, the Borrower proposed recuperating 60 percent of school fees (up from 40 percent) paid by
parents to the school. IDA's view was that any such increase would threaten the very spirit of voluntary
community support. IDA pushed for community contributions to be kept at the school level and suspended
disbursements for salaries in December 1999, requesting that Govenmment decentralize the hiring of
auxiliary teachers and their pay to the management committees of the community schools, provide a report
on budget execution, stabilize the number of teachers on the payroll, and adopt a budget for 2000 giving
clear priority to primary education. The suspension was lifted in April 2000 following an agreement that
the community schools pilot the recruitment and payment of auxiliary teachers. In the absence of clear
agreements between the Borrower and IDA on the scope of the fund's activities, the management structure
and the financing modalities, the fund proved an unreliable instrument. Rather than take early action to
withdraw from the fund and make other financing arrangements or, altematively, reallocate the relevant
proceeds of the Credit to other activities, the Bank took no action.
Information and Communication Systems. An overall plan was developed in 1997 for
information technology but personnel to staff an IT unit were never recruited. Further, the tender for IT
equipment was rejected by IDA because it did not meet Y2K specifications. Relaunching the tender was
then delayed to accommodate new assistance from the French Cooperation. The tender was re-launched in
2001 but it was too late to be eligible for financing under the Credit. Similarly, little was achieved in the
areas of education statistics and school mapping perhaps because of the overlap between IDA's aid and that
of the French.
Budgetary Programming and Monitoring. Work in this area was initially delayed because it was
decided to wait until the data bases to be established under the IT component had been created. On the
advice of the implementation committee comprising Finance and Planning, work was further delayed to
await the finalization of new, government-wide budget procedures. In this context, some basic spreadsheets
- 8 -



were finally developed late 2000, to be used in the preparation of the 2001 budget. There is no evidence
that this component resulted in stronger capacity in budget preparation and arbitration or in better cost
analysis - the main objectives of the component. Some MENRS staff received some initial training during
project preparation but it was never followed up. In fact, there was little incentive for the MENRS to
pursue program budgeting because it only managed the small share of the budget - 3 to 5 percent, allocated
to non-salary expenditures.
Ministerial Restructuring. As the 1995 CAS stated, Togo had no clear policies with regard to the
decentralization of authority and expenditure. In this context, it is difficult to see how a single technical
ministry could launch a far reaching reform in this area, without a consensus at the level of government and
without strong leadership. As it was, the ministry moved in the direction of further centralization by
appointing powerful director generals who were loath to grant the regional directors (who were to be the
kingpins of the reform) any discretionary powers. The regional directors had in any case been appointed
without their competencies and terms of reference being defined. Powerless, the regional directorates
reverted to a purely administrative role, passing on the instructions of the center. The MTR concluded there
was an urgent need to clarify the structure and responsibilities of the MENRS at all levels and noted that
the impact of the regional boards was not yet felt. By project closing, the responsibilities at the regional
level remained unclear. The boards lacked a minimum of qualified personnel and appropriate systems,
policies, and procedures for decentralization were never put in place.
HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention. In 2000, all projects in the Africa Region were to be
retrofitted to allocate resources to the fight against HIV/AIDS. The MENRS responded quickly by
analyzing the impact of HIV/AIDS on the supply and demand for education and teachers, and by
developing a program for HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention. An awareness workshop was held for 200
stakeholders, including representatives of MENRS, PTAs, NGOs and teachers' unions as well as traditional
and religious leaders and a plan of action for each level nation-wide was developed. Unfortunately, the
plans could not be implemented as the Credit was under suspension and then closed.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is negligible. The project did not improve the
MENRS capacity nor enhance the country's ability to make effective use of the human and financial
resources available for education. The re-structuring of the MENRS to reflect greater decentralization of
authority never materialized. Similarly, because of the delays in introducing new programming and
budgeting procedures, training could only have been possible in the last few months of the project. It was
not implemented because the credit had been suspended. The important task of re-training primary school
inspectors to emphasize instructional, as opposed to administrative, supervision was never implemented.
Instead, much time was wasted in training them for action research activities which, again, were never
initiated.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The macro-economic and political environment remained highly unstable throughout project
implementation due to recurring political issues, the energy crisis, severe weather conditions affecting key
-9-



crops and increased military expenditure. Presidential elections were vigorously contested and the
subsequent 1999 legislative elections were boycotted. The fair conduct of the latter was to have been a
condition for the resumption of aid by the major bilaterals and the EU.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Several factors that negatively affected the project were within the Government's control.
*   Bank disbursements to Togo were suspended from November 14, 2000 to August 19, 2001 which
halted implementation during this period. When the project reached its closing date of June 30, 2001,
the suspension was still in effect and the project could not be extended. Of the Credit amount of
US$36.6 million equivalent, US$11.1 million was cancelled. The period of suspension contributed to
the project not attaining its objectives and the inability to extend the Credit led to the cancellation of
activities underway or about to start (additional school rehabilitation; research into factors affecting
girls' schooling).
* The Government rejected a number of options for the management of the Education Fund, including
outsourcing the management to a private accounting firm, as proposed by IDA, which might have
resulted in more timely and transparent payment of teacher salaries. The four month suspension of
Category 6 of the Credit which pertained to IDA's contribution to the payment of auxiliary teachers
would have been avoidable if Government had not issued a law on the functioning of the Education
Fund that was contradictory to its agreement with IDA.
* Although the fiscal position of the Government was extremely tight, Government made budget
allocation decisions that were inconsistent with its Education Policy Letter and agreements with IDA.
It did not respect budgetary targets in favor of primary education, and established a new university
without an assessment of the financial implications. Government consistently sought to centralize
resource and personnel management, attempting to recoup an increasing share of the resources
contributed by parents in school and book fees at a time when the public was rejecting Government
schools in favor of schools communities established and funded by themselves. Finally, Government
counterpart contributions were consistently in arrears which jeopardized the stability of the auxiliary
teacher force and delayed project implementation across the board.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The MENRS did an inadequate job of monitoring the work of the agencies responsible for site
supervision. The MENRS was slow to remedy the poor technical competence of the "bureaux d'etudes
techniques" which was apparent in late 1996. This resulted in sub-standard construction work and
additional rehabilitation costs down the line.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
By the time the Credit closed in June 2001, two-thirds of the Credit had been disbursed; the
remaining balance of US$11.1 million equivalent was cancelled. Project costs were generally in line with
appraisal estimates, despite a higher than expected cost of classroom construction at the beginning of the
project. However, the amount of the Credit allocated to textbooks was double the amount needed to finance
the number of books anticipated. This was largely due to the need to supply some 80 additional lower
secondary schools which had been opened in the first three years of the project, increased enrollments in
existing lower secondary schools and to the decision to give every teacher at that level a complete set of
student texts.
The bulk of the Credit (70 percent) had originally been allocated for Civil Works (18 percent),
- 10-



textbooks (27 percent), and teacher salaries (24 percent). An additional 17 percent (US$6.3 million) was
allocated to technical assistance to support program development and implementation while 10 percent
(US$3.0 million) was unallocated to set aside for contingencies. There was no separate allocation for the
school grants program, and only US$1.0 million was allocated to operating costs which was intended to
finance expenditures related to project management, workshops, and other in-country training. Finally,
when the MTR recommended providing school materials (as opposed to books) to the double-shift schools
as well as to innovating schools, it was realized that the DCA did not make specific provision for financing
them. While some of the operating funds were used for this purpose, available funds were insufficient to
meet the costs of travel, accommodation, and materials required for in-service training, the schools
initiative and for the training of inspectors and middle management. As it was, at project close, operating
costs were nearly fully disbursed despite the long period of suspension and the costs of providing supplies
for the 600 double-shift schools (up from 200 in 1997), as recommended by the MTR were not met by
either the Credit or govemment financing.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Government never managed to maintain a stable, minimum non-salary operating budget for schools
during the life of the project and any move toward sustainability of the provision of teachers and books will
depend on improved macroeconomic performance permitting the stable allocation of funds to support
primary education, and on the political will to effect such support. While the project's design sought to
decentralize decision making and spending authority, the tendencies in the MENRS were clearly toward
centralization, with the appointment of powerful unit directors, the failure to empower the regional
directors, and the maintenance of spending authority at the central level (even school fees were transferred
to Finance before they provisioned the support fund). Finally, because the Govenmment did not meet its
obligations to finance primary education, the communities took it on themselves to finance the expansion of
primary education, at great sacrifice. While this strong community response could lay the foundation for
future decentralization of authority, it nonetheless remains in jeopardy as long as Government support
through subsidies is lacking. However, financial sustainability remains unlikely given the continued tight
fiscal constraints and preferences to allocate resources to other levels of education and to other sectors.
Extemal financing will be required to maintain even the small gains made but such aid will depend on a
substantially enhanced commitment to primary education and improved governance.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N.A.



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Based on the project's design and readiness for implementation, Bank performance during project
preparation was highly unsatisfactory. The Bank attempted to graft an emergency program onto a
previously designed project for management improvements that was developed in 1992 but never fully
prepared because of country circumstances. The Bank proceeded too quickly with the preparation of the
emergency components, for example, allowing government to begin implementation of the Education Fund
before adequate management procedures and financial safeguards had been developed; initiating the school
book component without a clear agreement on copyright licensing on which rapid procurement of books
depended; and launching an ambitious rehabilitation and construction program with inadequate
arrangements for management, technical support to construction firms, and for field supervision. The
school improvement initiative, though ambitious, was barely sketched out at appraisal and floundered as
actors tried to define and operationalize the basic concepts. The idea that the MENRS could be
re-structured and decentralized, designing and introducing new systems and procedures at the same time as
it implemented an emergency program, seems flawed. While it was envisaged that such changes would be
driven by analysis and policy work, this was again an unrealistic expectation in a context of crisis. While
the preparation team clearly identified the risks, the reliance on technical assistance and monitoring as the
main means to mitigate the risks was highly optimistic since the risks -- lack of government commitment,
the continuing political and economic crisis, and lack of govemance -- could not readily be addressed
through these means.
Concems about the readiness of the project were expressed by the Bank preparation team and by
others. Despite these concerns, Bank management pushed for a fast track delivery and did not ensure the
support Togo needed to compete the preparation process and proceed with implementation.
7.2 Supervision:
For most of project implementation, Bank performance was unsatisfactory with respect to both
supervision and implementation support. To implement an emergency response, and at the same time begin
to tackle structural and policy issues as a basis for further lending, would have required a major effort in
terms of staff and budget throughout the first three years of the project, if not its life, with regular in
country, school site visits. The preparation and supervision team in the early years of the project lacked
staff experienced in education financing, planning or administration, key to the supervision of the Fund and
to the MENRS re-structuring and re-tooling. There was also insufficient field support with regard to
troubleshooting the problems of the rehabilitation and construction program. As it was, hands on
assistance to the "bureaux d'etudes techniques" by an architect was available only in the first year of
operations. The skill mix and frequency of Bank missions was inadequate to the task. A clear example is
the failure to move rapidly to firm up appropriate procedures and safeguards with regard to the Education
Fund. The economist who worked out the financing arrangements with Government did not return to
monitor the fund's financing and operations. Indeed, no economist was assigned to the project until two
years before its closing. Finally, Bank missions left it to Government to define remedial measures and
action plans, failing to take a stand when such action plans were never implemented. The action plans to
provide double shift schools with a minimum package of materials and to provide early in-service training
to newly recruited auxiliary teachers, while requested in the first field supervision and confirmed by the
MTR, were still under revision at the end of project, as target dates continued to slip. The changing
supervision skill mix led to unequal and irregular attention to the key supervision issues, with varying
pressure on the implementing agency to remedy them, rather than to a concerted effort on all fronts. This
- 12 -



lack of a coherent supervision strategy contributed to constant backsliding on the part of the implementing
agency and, ultimately, to a failure to resolve most of the pressing issues.
The MTR was the first comprehensive supervision of the project. It resulted in more than twenty
recommendations that the Government was to address in an action plan. These were largely damage control
measures designed to address the project's inherent design problems. Responding to the recommendations
in timely fashion was beyond the ministry's capacity, both human and financial. For example, the MTR's
insistence on training and a minimum package of educational inputs for schools at risk was never tackled
because the ministry lacked the financial resources. However, the recommendations of the audits did
impact on Govermnent. Under the clear threat of suspension in 1997, the initial operational problems were
gradually corrected (payment procedures; social security transfers). Later, in 1999, when Government
changed the mandate of the fund (financing all categories of expenditure, at all levels) IDA reacted
forcefully, asking for further audits and suspending disbursements for this category. This pushed the
Government to respond in two months with an action plan which IDA could accept. This result is clear
evidence of what a stronger supervision team could have achieved. It came about when supervision was
delegated to IDA field staff with appropriate expertise in public finance, education policy, planning and
administration and when its frequency increased significantly. The coverage and analysis of supervision
and the pertinency of recommendations all improved, as did effective follow-up.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance was unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower used the PPF to carry out an initial survey of rehabilitation and construction needs.
However, the survey results with regard to the location of new classrooms were questioned by the
beneficiaries in the early phase of implementation, in large part because they had not been based on a
reliable school mapping exercise. The survey also failed to identify the specific rehabilitation works
required. The drawing up of the technical specifications was not completed until mid-1997, delaying
construction significantly. This delay was attributable to weaknesses in the selection of supervisory
agencies ("bureaux d'etudes") which government should have accomplished prior to negotiations. The 1992
proposals for re-structuring and re-tooling the MENRS were never fleshed out, leading to a good deal of
uncertainty throughout the project. In terms of school improvement, there had been pilot activities
conducted in the framework of the demonstration schools but the results do not appear to have given any
clear direction to the quality schools initiative. Overall, preparation took place within the project
implementation period. This was understandable with regard to the emergency components but less so for
the other components which had been under consideration since 1992.
7.5 Government implementation performance.
Government performance was unsatisfactory. It failed to provide counterpart funds and a minimum
of non-salary expenditure throughout the life of the project. The project steering committee never became
fully operational which casts doubt on Government's commitment to achieving project objectives or its
ability at the government level to focus on sector project matters in the ongoing climate of political and
economic instability. It appears that the lack of Government responsiveness was due to both to lack of
clarity in the project concept and implementation arrangements and to insufficient commitment - primary
schools continued to receive little or no resources other than for salaries throughout the project yet a new
university was established. In retrospect, it appears that the Government, eager to promote social stability
in the aftermath of the general strike and civil unrest, was most focused on the emergency components
(teachers, books and classrooms). It remained cautious of change, such as the decentralization of
- 13 -



educational authority to the regional boards and to the repatriation of school fees to the community level.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The design for project implementation was inappropriate, making a successful outcome unlikely.
The design entrusted the management of the respective components of the project to the most relevant
departments/divisions of the ministry (e.g. school books to the primary education directorate and to the
pedagogical institute; school construction to the construction unit within the planning directorate).
Normally, in an environment of less pressure, such an approach would have been welcome, avoiding the
difficulties inherent in entrusting implementation to an ad hoc project implementation unit (PIU) and
permitting on-the-job development of capacity at the operational levels of the ministry. However, in a
context where little advance preparation of the components had been done, where an emergency response
was required and where levels of capacity and motivation were low, this approach seems inappropriate in
retrospect. The current conditions might have been best addressed by a more focused, ad hoc approach,
with capacity building reserved -- as the quality at entry panel recommended -- for a subsequent operation.
As it was, considerable dispersion of responsibilities and authority resulted. Not surprisingly, the project
coordinator found it difficult to motivate and direct a team which comprised the entire middle management
of the MENRS. For their part, the managers found it difficult to handle the changing priorities of their
ongoing work programs and those of the project. There is no doubt that a department such as primary
education, on the front line of the crisis, must have found that training in vague theory and the writing of
manuals (quality schools initiative) was a major diversion of the time and energy of its inspectors and
principals. Similarly, at the ministry level, these same managers were hard placed to carry out
self-evaluation as a precursor to institutional change at a time when they were overwhelmed by their
current responsibilities. This is clear in the case of the management of the Education Fund. It was
unrealistic to expect the ministry's finance directorate to develop a new personnel management system for
auxiliary teachers on the basis of sketchy, untested procedures and, at the same time, carry out their normal
work load.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance was unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   As part of an emergency response, the Education Fund attempted to address the problem of insufficient
budgetary resources to pay teachers salaries. It did this by recruiting teachers at a lower salary than
teachers in the civil service, setting up a Fund to separate funds to pay these teachers, and setting up
new recruitment procedures. Each of these elements created problems of their own due to lack of
control mechanisms and weak management. Setting up these systems in an overall environment of
weak capacity and instability was an optimistic endeavor. Eventually, the responsibility for personnel
management shifted to the Civil Service Ministry and the payment shifted to the Ministry of Finance
where there was at least some authority and capacity. It might have been better to build on this existing
capacity or to have outsourced the fund's financial management to a competent agency with
appropriate fiduciary safeguards. The former option would seem to be preferable in terms of
sustainability. Finally, the recruitment and payment of auxiliary teachers should not have been
considered an emergency measure but designed as a longer term solution to the supply and costs of
teachers, with recognition that central government would want to retain some financial and personnel
management controls over teachers it was expected to finance.
*   The whole project concept was premised on the financial support of parents and communities - almost
9 percent of project costs - in a continuing economic crisis, with falling family revenues during the
- 14 -



period. Parent and community financing capacity should have been carefully assessed at the outset and
monitored throughout the project, with adequate attention to beneficiary wishes. The expectation that
consumption taxes could be levied at the grassroots to support the fund proved unrealistic and
Govemment came close to jeopardizing community voluntary contributions of public school fees, as
well as those targeted by the same communities at the EDILs, by trying to raise the level of school
fees, without careful assessment.
*   The emergency context called for a more focused approach to project management. Dispersion of
responsibilities to almost every service of the MENRS was inefficient, given the operational context.
Similarly, it was unrealistic to attempt institutional reform and capacity building in such a context.
*   The level of implementation support provided by the Bank and the Borrower may have been adequate
for a good performing country under stable circumstances, but it was inadequate for an emergency
response, particularly in an environment where governance is a challenge.
*   A key issue throughout the project was the failure to install proper intemal controls for the collection
and allocation of funds (school fees, book rental fees, community contributions). It might have been
more effective to build these controls into existing systems and strengthen public finance management.
In any case, for the future, a strong effort should be made to set up internal controls and monitor their
application and all fund schemes should be the object of both technical and financial audits.
*   The textbook fee collection system was highly risky in the prevailing environment. The collection of
fees at the school level and their transfer to a central account left much room for misuse of funds.
Similar systems have shown poor results in other countries as well. Where good governance is not
present and where financial management is weak, it is unrealistic to expect such a system to work to
the benefit of the students and families.
*   It was a mistake to assume that the publishers of the existing primary textbooks would easily negotiate
their legitimate copyrights. The only way to get books to the schools quickly would have been to fast
track the procurement of generic text books, adapted to the African context, albeit not to Togo's. Such
books were readily available from a variety of sources. Altematively, IDA might have provided
budgetary support to meet the costs of the books (however, given the adjustment experience in Togo,
this might have been risky).
*   There is insufficient capacity in Togo among small contractors and work supervisors to execute quality
construction work. This is an issue which impacts other sectors such as health, urban and rural works.
IDA should make an across the board evaluation of this issue and explore ways to manage procurement
more efficiently, providing technical support to contractors and can-ying out site supervision, with the
safeguards of financial and technical audits.
*   Decentralization of decision-making and spending authority to the regional level is difficult to
accomplish in the absence of an agreed policy framework and without full support of govenmuent as a
whole of the proposed sector piloting arrangements. In the event, responsibilities of the regional boards
were never clarified and they continued to take their orders from the center. Also, the devolution of
expenditure to the district/community level met with strong resistance by Finance until late in the
project.
- 15 -



*   The introduction of new systems and procedures in programming and budgeting faced a similar
difficulty. It was unrealistic to expect the education ministry to design and pilot them, without taking
into consideration the cross-ministry framework for budget preparation, to be developed by the key
ministries of finance and planning. As it was, the MENRS initiative was delayed to the last year of the
project, at the request of those two ministries, until the framework was in place.
- 16 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Governemnt of Togo's (GOT) comments on ICR - English Summary
-      Government of Togo disappointed that ICR author not been on field visit => not knowing exactly
the impact of the project (PAGED)
-      Conclusions and negative undertone in ICR seem contradictory to reality of the field
-      Due to project implementation interruption because of reasons well known to Bank, the actual life
of project was only 3 years instead of 5 years as stated in ICR; 3 years too short for a project of
such magnitude
-      For certain components, no quality or quantity indicators identified at preparation stage, hence no
real outcome assessment possible and therefore an ICR field mission would have been helpful
-      GOT convinced that collapse of Education system prevented because of PAGED and negative
impacts were reversed; news of closure of PAGED received with disappointment by beneficiaries
-      Apart few components which were not implemented due to different reasons, positive impact of
PAGED very important as indicated in GOT's contribution to ICR (see annex)
-      Replacement/Rehabilitation of Schools and furniture Component: helped improve quality of
school conditions and giving teachers and students back the dignity they deserve. Also, positive
impact on school enrollment and decrease of drop-outs undeniable, but no detailed studies on this
subject have been done.
Distribution of School Manuals: Helped increase student knowledge and successful completion of
courses, hence reducing drop-out. Manuals cover largely needs of primary schools. Delay of
delivery of manuals well documented in ICR and its impact to be noted by the end of school year
2001/2002. GOT financed subsequently distribution of such manuals and training of their use by
teachers
IHiring and training of auxiliary teachers: Helped improve teachers qualifications despite
deviations mentioned in report. All auxiliary teachers received training during project duration and
the impact shown in improvement of main performance indicators of schools is considerable
Quality Schools Initiative and Girl's Schooling: Since expected results not attained,
re-orientation during mid-term review which produced results not to be overlooked. Introduction of
"double-shift" teaching plan helped relieve teachers and increased school effectiveness, decreased
repetition of students which had a disastrous impact on keeping students in schools, especially
girls. Contracts with NGO's regarding research of girl's schooling interrupted due to suspension
and subsequent project closing. Statistics show smaller gap between boy's and girl's enrollment in
primary schools. Project seems to have left a consensus on everyone's mind that girl's education is
important
Community Schools (EDIL): Impact of PAGED on EDIL's is not to be discounted as these
EDIL's received same manuals and furniture as public schools (which were included under:
"replacement and rehabilitation of class rooms"). Even if teachers not directly trained by system,
they benefited form support of inspectors and pedagogical counselors in their region. Community
mobilization for schooling of children especially realizing community's role in managing schools
are a gain much needed in light of a future decentralization exercise.
Quality of Schools Initiative: Positive results noted as no longer viewed as an emergency as
considered prior to project start-up
Better Education Management: Given suspensions, technical assistance from consultants was not
always possible. However, the few missions undertaken helped improve management capacities of
- 17 -



the Education system.
Education Support Fund: Not achieved its objectives. After Bank's suggestions, GOT decided to
refund to schools 60% of fees paid by parents. As an transparency exercise of these Funds, steps
are taken to allow joint management by school officials and parents. PAGED is viewed as having
helped re-instate such collaboration
Information Systems: Installation of Internet connecting different services of the Ministry (local
and regional) was achieved. First version of a CD-ROM disclosing information of school statistics
is available and training for its use completed. However, due to suspension, this process came to a
halt.
Budgetary Programming and Monitoring: Interested parties received training from a consultant,
and new techniques learned were used during the 2000-2001 budget exercise. No material to
implement such programming at the central and regional level was purchased
Ministerial Restructuring: Well advanced with help of French Cooperation; Regional
Directorates created and equipped. However, responsibilities not clearly defined between regional
and central directorates, making resistance and confusion in connection to changes only normal.
Signed contract with a consultant to tackle this problem never executed due to suspension and
subsequent closure of project.
Overall, impact of institutional strengthening is contradictory:
French Cooperation successfully lead such activities even though only in pilot regions. Helped
equip regional directorates and inspections of mobile and office equipment
Even though some resistance, and malfunction due to lack of precise roles and responsibilities of
Regional Directorates, GOT thinks that the dynamics for decentralization have irreversibly started.
Overall component assessment: Viewed as major gain is the recognition of necessity to change method of
school management and the irreversible process to decentralize. Based on this insight, future actions
pertaining to strengthening and consolidating the Education system will happen more smoothly.
Therefore, as mentioned earlier, the Government of Togo looks at role played by PAGED in saving their
education system as considerable. The project should be evaluated keeping in mind the socio-political and
economical environment having existed throughout the life of the project and that the project only lasted 3
years in real time. That is why the Government of Togo is of the opinion that the Education system
deserves to be supported in ensuring continuity of important gains made by PAGED and consolidating
them through a new program which will derive, of course, from lessons leamed.
- 18 -



MrNISTERU LR3DUCATt?  KW ON ME ;  TDSLA          WE'IWJeTOO0LAIS
MZWSTfl D2LBWJ  'nOCAWh1TAL9 ST 0D LA               aj14gi.ac
CABINET
.V121tn L*0- T, 2t.39-2f24W2
B'  X L u4 am                       m d, I 26 fivditr 2002
Lw A Mhlab Bai'baEfn    i*.
A
MAdame 1*r sZkw fd6*e de
La Baxs#M Auodiae au lOGO.
rer I i
Made Ic R_t,__--                                    _       X
Nous avons  l'hom   de vowumsmanetb          I     du              to R =ppn
d'abcbviaem   du Projct d'Appi & la Geu*icde ITEucaoB (PAGED) p*ar6 pa La Banquc
spr6s la cilire du Cr*dit 2T52-TO inuratiue I 30 juoi 2001
N*us o    sauons gr6 dws dispoddo  que vous ,= predre pour zu  m lea pr6smts
comma2taires aui Rappont d6Thmitif
Vuillez agr6cr, Madamo k Recwk at Irassuruce de ma consd&afiou distgp6oJ-
- 19-



PROlW1 WAP  A LA G l# ua LuDVCATM
?4DaITDl! L'soCA7ION tWlajEDv aDBLA  IWUQ  WoGOOLAM
SDCWTTGaAMTCAL
Rapport d'acehvement
PROJEr D"ApPU1 A LA GESTION DE L'EDUCATION
(PAGED) BANQUE MONDIALE
CREDIT IDA 2752-TO
COMME:NTfAIRESADEIL 'EM'RPIVU    EUR
Feiur 2002
- 20 -



,dImisinma L'SDXJC&W4 hAtIl( tl; DSL              RDqUQuOToOW
SBcaEIAMATOQIURIILJMQWTOOITS
EXRUCIN CAL5on LAN D eAL   ULAAWn
- 142fUCA
*1)t=]A2,WXA LAOWUTICVe LWAXflUN
VW:x 21,f3.41
PAGEb (0.2 752 TVO),
Pnbtde Rajgpw d'Ackhme des Ila Baqwe
Ceu   avc beauccip d'imat qu    su avont pan comnasusc     du prijt 4d raport
dwacbkvumU du Proict dAppui A ls Gestion de l a (iAG      ) pper6 per la Benque
Wris la clturo du Crdit 27S2-TO ineMe la 30Juin2001 .
Cc R1pt appalle de la pet du Gouvemem       un cean nombre de cmmeafro qu'il
scWiait  t vair aexds en Rappot d4i*if
D'abord,ousavons 4gtdqu l'au4idtzapportquln'dalt ps insa, do l'6qpo e I
Bmqua cher*     du PAGW. n'at pa s4joum6 an Togo amn cola nou avait d6* !muna
powt   bwluer luim  sur pl   lea acqu nu PdtoL La it d'avolrprdper sam rappor  is
bse de ls imple documcuts6m disonbib no Ih a pe poe d'a    cieto      pi  que
Io Projent a au swur la *yakn 6dwaet  e' conduit a des conacuuin pu*iis Ca
avec as r*Eli du tarund
Ceos dit, le contat n6ptif pot xr rcdeion de oe proc d st    am impst i dives
nivea, ccnfoidmnew aux objcdt de d6vulppmat 4lu smvv=mesz, no oous       mnbk
pas ratofka Poxact realit din twamt.
EI esret, il est indsilo quo roacudon de or pr at a w    Utsoku    prtue par
plujours fi(stot  blo  coisis de Is Banque et B qtCau  I   de ci   dm  e et su mm
dif eat   nspesn     et an retad dam le d&nsag  il n'a en r6 6  W cs6a qua sur
trois mmem. Cda s'avkc lu=saat powr6allsr to  les objesc1i decc vat ypr a.
Aucun, okcifqudtadf(p.7) et quuaf n'sym t*     6 pow cerins causn_, mi
niavan pas im z6ftrcwlo objectf nou p_maut d'uaemo em qpdoquo jugcm&       do
valr. Cea pourquma une i* udo d*kapact ou. iain w.  -is uia ission d'dvnluaiin ushit
68aft utulle.
- 21 -



o GOUYaCement togolais powr Sa pa:, deure pm*foud6aum convainCu que, 8rice au
PA&ED. noe systam   ddcatif a *apW  a l'ofndrest qui le menafalt La tendancs i I a
baisse des inscions et A la d6graation dus servcs Aductifs a i invexrset cadtait
ju sment Iotjoctiif de d&e oppunent initial poursuivi par Ic gouvwernmt avey rappui de
la Banquc . L'impaa psychologiquc et social do cc Projet auprts des bdn6ficiaires
(ensigriou, parnts coenmunna6   6tAvo) est si patknt qua l'annonce de ea clturc a ft&
doulourousement ressande.
Ea cffct, hormis Its composanto qui n'oat pas pu d6mrrer pour div;zsca rsons, nous
cstmon quo l'lmpact posidf dc PACED est trds impo  ainsi que nous 1'avonn souign6 an
d&al dins la s Contrution de l'empranunr e e ea anoxe de votlC rapport
Le remplacemeut t Is r&hblitatiou des kniN  ct Ic  4quipcmnnt on mobilU   scolafres
ant largment contribU A arnmhorer da fahn sigrdficative la qualitA do raccucil des 616ims ct
iredo   r ane ccnatie dipi am consdpan   et a= Icveo qui dvhuni dtJsomais dam un
cadre plus motivant. L'impact de cone eomposmnt sur le tawt d'inscipt   et le In mari des
Alhves A lhcole est ind6eiable mime s'il rato B 6vlUer plus sciontfiquenanL Los bosoins
st lain d'a     sailst, snut qu'en emoignp Is nombrIucas demandes que continuant
d'cnrcgistrcr mos sevices.
Le fouritutc des mkantsis scolauim    a permis sun Albve6   d'avoir des supports
p    gogiqus indispensables a rwqulstion dos coumaissances, amMovaU cotaiwnan ainsi
Ics m  do idassite, doe rdduisagt Its tax d'cbocs e d'abmns   qul en d6coulmL
Si its manucla soot iwsufaoa pour le DeAxikue feV* ils couvra lagamnt its bosoms
du Phmicr Dogr. Dawa cc cas pr6ds, les raboos du retard dtm l'aquisiteio at la ivralson de
ces manuals sont bicr rele'vics par Ic rappor  n'tc deamr pas tuins wrai que c'eat n
acquas important dont l'inpA sau ls bdndficaircs sear perceptible ds la 1i do I'
scolaire 2001-2002. Coascirnt de cola, le gouvenmcmc, xnalgr6 l1s conotintcs de
ir6sorerics, a ftnancd la distribufon do ces manudas a la formaiuo des fomatu  A lor
wilisationl
Lc recrotement et la fortatu, do tnscipgants auxliru   a contribu6  aL"liam  le
nivean de quaification des eseignts ct par consdqouat. la quaLtd de Vensaignement,
nasgrd Ics dMag=s constais at qtu sont en d6calaog avo l'cspxit d: ctne opftion. Tout
leos nsignants auxilsrs on pone pendant la durd. du Met am &6 fiarmis . L'ln2x  de
ette fomnaaon sur 'am6li*rion des psiucpaux inAcatus de pcrfommnc do I'&ole eat
cnwidhmble.
Le vole Initiativc pour 2cs Ecoles do quo   at acolarsatio a scolatid des Mla n's pu
dosnd dams St farMie Ilitial kio rAUall Its oaeMpths asIM Iea U.4104loS rInUtaIMOAS
hnprlfes tars de is Rovue A MI-Parcouo i oet volet omt donnu dos r6sultats non
nDgtgea"bl. Ain5i, Pinoduction des systimes de doUble-flux ou double vacation at do
sous-cycla a contribu, & rAdin Ics offtih p  cilassc soulageant ainxi Peamsi8nt, el A
rdixwe les tmzx de redoublemet qu avaient un ffet d6sasre  sor le mainticn des A1iv  et
notammct, des flues dam I systime tdacatiL Leo contts avoc Ies ONG poua ac tins on
direction de la jeuni fine c th interopus par la loge pcdode do suspai on dos
d6caiSScuents ct Ia clbturc du prqjct
2
- 22 -



Las stalistiques mno d'aiurs qu'au plair is di6pah cm* Iea f1os at kms grRos.
n'sts plus sigVftWiV. La pft*it6    de ces acquls Smhl assur6a dans la mesure ob
baumcoup d'oJgAs!l   wuvret ddsoermais dam I* seo de la scolaisathon at de ia scola  de
la flle Ct qu Is pris de conscoiw de s 6cvssit s'est izopos6o A touL
L'appui ppoin6 aux Ecesm d''Iaitte Local (DU) per le PAGED      eat non aglgabl
dans la mae    i oi caS dcoh, cT6es at g4rAs par Ies oomm t6s oa r*, su mbne thre
quo les Booles publiqucs lea zamulas sClaims et It mobilior. ElBIs soot pises cm compte dax
le pogamme do ranplacnemn et do r*iabilitain     do sallks de dassc  Mhtn  si lbas
er  ants ao so ps    s dirctamm   fournis par le sys4ime, ils tbdaBcit  du souben
p6dapgique des inpectew at consifleis piagogku   de leaur r Dgion.
La mobilisaion commmunmAsir en favwr do la scoiuDs n des cInots, et sutout ls ptaa do
consiene par les communada          r de kw t6lo dans ls gestion de l'tcole son! autant d '
qu'Ul fadre p4muiser en vue duno fawturo et nicossair d6m:ntmlisadc. L'Vpi finan iar du
PAGED as foucdonnwm      t des EDt, sutmut sm    le voat a slawre des ansgu    ts
volontairos 5 a 6  irs appr6ci6 par lea b6iresitm mi e el nous estlinw  qu'il Budraii
bvalucr plus pr6onen Viwpact de l'in  -vutlon des pouvoirs pubc sur les popxaiwm
spoutantmat organis6s.
La oomposane Anltoratiof de la qualiti des bolus nous seimble avoir    obtena des
r6sultat fost psitih our Ic aystdmc. L-antios a subi les vicuisindes do I'cnvironeuxt
dons loqual le projot a 6volue St clost rcalatiirat A cote c,oncuwrc d6fivrab@  qui
perdaw, quo ic gouvomat poc          sou  pprciaon. 11 ft reonaIat       qu'a
I'lntarvwdon du PAaE. l'oz no peu! plus pad= azjoturd'bt de Purgme d'una inlurvnon
comma cola vit 61 le cus i I'aeuA do projet dans Ic potteEfvtis. Cote ugcs a conduit i
ccains d6futs td co   ption qui sawt a i ow   dc diffYtda d    '.c6cu   contst6es.
La   Compos_ite   Amntloratd     de la gadoin do stme u's pas 6chape daa son
cx6cu%on ews pzobln    voqu6s ci-desous. Le di0crentes suspandons hi" &la 0cojoncue
socio-6conomique at politique n'ont pas peamis d'avoir Wguman lassist  o tohniquc
do oonsuftants pr6vte; n6tmoms, bs d   ifartes m isso   qui swot pso6ft ant contribu6 A
amiliorer les capachits do gcsrdo du sysibmo.
Le Foods de Saud= * PAcation Va pas rempli nikem'nt la misCion quiM fI Etait
initialernnt d6volue. C'cst pouquoi Ic gouvemement suite ia recomsaddons de ls
Banque, a d6cidU et entrapdz de rtoahcder aux 6cl  Las fras de anLaitE pays. par los
parTet A cc jour, 60% do ocs fra sont laisss i Is disposition des wols. Pr pamettr quc
ces bdi soGelw Vrd an toutac anspoxwoe at lea d4    5 scla fbotudes & bon esclezv, dos
dispostons sontprises, pour uwc gaeo  colhgiaio  t are 1'aduIztirdltuaon do I'dcole ct lcs
parenb et Ices lc. Lun dos plus grads acqur du PAGP ast l'in tauran       dc ceto
gtstion paticipative doe I'dcole.
3
- 23 -



Le volet Syte   d'tnfiw  m      du bfiaiztre a coamnc6 i ftr ax6awA avea Tnisc en
place dun intanet reliant le divas scrvic eantraux  r 6gionext du Miistko. Cet outil des
nouvelles twaiquas dlnfam'in_   et do ooIrania    mis    plc avoc la coop6raion
frngaise est destin6 a divcrses ulilations et. notammes. It la rEplication & distance des bases
de do0n6 r6tonales4
Une prfmbme version d'w   CD4OM     (MABASE) de divuWdon des ifarnationR de is
basn de dono6w des statistiques solaires a 6 rtalfsft a la folnbati  dca buliswuras-
doctdaer e   tn6e. La suspfl    ei des dcassments a  ie fin au processua-
Sur la volW Programmtlaz at suec budgftLr, le per    d  int6     a   fRmd per ua
costultasn at los nouvez acquis om 66 udlisis  wcapter de rlhboalion du budpt 2000-
2001 A la satiufaidon do uns et des ate. L'acquisit   n dal al* pow la risc an
applicadon d co volct au ivca4 cmat ar6ginal nlaOt pas raUL.
Le volct Coslidatlm at mlimecturtio n -I*stiR*        al bies avunA kveoc lappui
tecMique  ftinanier de la Coop&stoz Fraupise C'est minsi qu dcs D ion  R6e3onajls
assez eiMcaces  cot 6*b loitaL    et  4quip&  Le pm8ge deo  Tsa_naxtda ente ces
Directions RgionaIcs et lea Directios Caales n'ayant pas 66 claeairt dotIn LI va de soi
qua des problbmcs surgiaseat e tqu  sonua a   d tdes ritances au chsgameal som
toba noimaks Le contr aign6 du consultant qui davait s'aeakr & cOM tAch u's pea ftre
hobwa6 pour cause dc suspension et d clOtue du PAOED.
Au totaL limpact du projet sur le ruuzreomnt iastitulouol to conDaste.
-  Sur ta ddceaiL,ation. la CoopEration fraise mmait djA vac sucacs des actons
mtmc a clles so limitent pour ctines A une peti mum pilobt d'inteacnzionL Enl a
conbu6 entre atres acons i quper leas diseoi      r6gionales at des impecan  an
MA!iels roulaM at do bureu bp    quelques rdoe      at des dyafobiasates Us
A ne dAtfition quelque peu imprise des tichos e des antbflasi des Diretions
x6gionalcs, le gouv    v nca= case   qua la dynamis cot bion cnge$ et q9udlle eni
irrdvemsble.
-  Sur I'ensemble de l coniposanto, I'acquis fimdeutsl eg Is priem de conscience de Is
n6cssit6 de changer do eistbode de gesduon scr. at de l'i=6veribi   du prooess
de d6concentratla/dcentrsation n du systh   Sr cewe bae an eft, les aions fuen
de r-nformen at de conshdaoion do la resauetui    dn systhtme se constviou plus
ais&nent
Alnsi que noe l'avions dit plus ham to GIouveamont esme quw Ic sOle jou6 par it PAOtED
dam Ie sauvetap do son cyst6n  an considrable a qx9ll fandrat V'bvaluor  I'au e &d
l'anvironneinant social politigy et 6conoqus qui pF6vaer A son enidso dos le portoeulll
de Ia Banque at qui a perdur6 depuis sa conceptioz jusqu7A son ex6cution qux n's 64 ffeotivc
quo sixtroi  s c
C'cst pourquoi, le Govermcnent de ia Rlpublique Toglalso estimc que le ysme 6dnaf
mrite d'Stre soitlau en vue de prenniser lks iportants acqs du PAG8D      cL les
consolidaut a travert im nouveau prograrnu   dont la conueption at I d6voloppaad
dendrint biw vidranmet compto does Ions tirdes d  ceprojL
4
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
N.A.
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Pupil Teacher Ratio                    55                                    41
Introduce double-shift teaching in urban  800 classrooms                     800 classrooms
areas
Reduce repettion rate                  39%                                   33%
Students enrolled in community schools  38%
Increase the share of non salary expenditures 8%                             2.3%
within primary education budget
Increase proportion of school fees kept at  100%                             100%-
school level
Improve student/book ratio in prindpal  French: 1/1                          1/2
subject matters for primary schools    Mathematics: 1/1                      1/2
Science: 1/1                           1/2
Gross Enrollment Rate                  90%                                   103%
Net Enrollment Rate                    70%                                   73%
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR  v              AhiAalLatest Estirmte
Girls Enrollment                       251,000                               358,000
Number Civil Service teachers reduced  10,008                                7,489
Religious school teachers              3,884                                 7,556
Auxiliary Teachers                     0                                     8,062
Classrooms                             14,105                                26,125
Non-salary expenditures (% of operating                                      106%
budget)
End of project
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
School Construction and Rehabilitation             7.48           3.15            43
Textbook Provision                                 13.99          5.89            42
Quality Schools Initiative                         3.62           1.51            42
Decentralized Recruitment/Financing of Teachers    14.14          5.96            42
Information Systems                                0.82           0.35            43
Budgetary Programming and Monitoring               0.43           0.18            42
Consolidation of Ministerial Restructuring          1.61          0.66            41
Refunding of PPF                                    0.38          0.15            39
Total Baseline Cost                                42.47          17.85
Physical Contingencies                             0.80          0.36           0.45
Price Contingencies                                3.36          1.43             43
Total Project Costs            46.63          19.64
Total Financing Required            46.63          19.64
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         OtherNBF                Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00          8.10         0.00         0.00        8.10
(0.00)       (7.30)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (7.30)
2. Goods                    11.60         0.00         0.10         4.10        15.80
(11.60)      (0.00)        (0.10)       (0.00)      (11.70)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00         4.50         0.00        4.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.50)       (0.00)      (4.50)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5.Training                   0.00         0.00         3.10         0.00        3.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (3.10)       (0.00)       (3.10)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00        15.10         0.00        15.10
(0.00)       (0.00)      (10.00)       (0.00)      (10.00)
Total                     11.60        8.10         22.80        4.10        46.60
(11.60)      (7.30)       (17.70)      (0.00)       (36.60)
- 26 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB    .      NCB           Other2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00           4.28          0.00           0.00          4.28
(0.00)         (4.28)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (4.28)
2. Goods                         3.47          0.00           0.03          1.22          4.72
(3.47)         (0.00)        (0.03)         (1.22)       (4.72)
3. Services                      0.00          0.00          2.18           0.00          2.18
(0.00)         (0.00)        (2.18)        (0.00)        (2.18)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00           0.15          0.00          0.15
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.15)        (0.00)        (0.15)
5.Training                      0.00           0.00           7.95          0.00          7.95
(0.00)         (0.00)        (7.95)         (0.00)       (7.95)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.36           0.00          0.36
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.36)         (0.00)       (0.36)
Total                         3.47          4.28          10.67          1.22          19.64
(3.47)         (4.28)        (10.67)        (1.22)       (19.64)
4. Miscellaneous = Training; 5. Miscellaneous = Aux. teachers salaries and operating costs; 6. = PPF
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equi alent)
*    - . .     . . - : ,. -                                          j .:  ; Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate          .        .
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Development of Better    23.70      0.80      4.10     25.40      1.50      4.10    107.2  187.5  100.0
Schools
Development of Better    12.50      5.10               10.80      4.40               86.4   86.3
System Management
Refunding of PPF         0.40                           0.40                        100.0
- 27 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
During project preparation, no economic rate of return (ERR) or net present value of the project was
prepared. Therefore there is no baseline with which to compare actual estimates.
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
6/1992                      4   Prouty (EDU), Schwille (CONS),
Stevens (OPER), Palein (DIV.
CHF/ECON)
11/1992                     3   Prouty (EDU), Diarra (WOM),
Hameidat (FIN)
11/1993                     2   Prouty, Moll (EDU)
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/24/94                     7   Moll (EDU), Gavach
Post-Appr                       (COSTAB), Diop (TXBK),
Theunissen (ARCH), STAT,
FIN, MAP
12/23/94                    2   IMPL, COSTAB
Supervision
3/28/96                     3   Theunissen (ARCH), Moll            S            S
(EDU), Hameidat (FIN)
7/26/96                     3    Moll (EDU), Hameidat (FIN)        S            S
10/12/96                        Theunissen (ARCH)
2/28/97                     3   Moll (EDU), Diop (TXBK),           U             S
Hameidat (FIN)
12/23/97                    4   Diop (TXBK), Almeida (OPER),       S            S
Xenakis (IMPL), Agossou (FIN)
5/21/98                     5   Moll (EDU), Dunberry (EDU),        U            U
Radji (ECO), Almeida (OPER),
Abaglo (PROC)
10/8/98                     3   Xenakis (IMP), Almeida            U             U
(OPER), Abaglo (PROC)
1/25/99 (MTR)               9   Ndao, Moll (EDU), Xenakis         U             U
(IMPL), Diop (TXBK), Bendokat
(ECON), Radji (ECO), Abaglo
(PROC), Gavach (ASST),
Almeida (OPER)
12/16/99                    7   Zerbo (ARCH), Agossou (FIN),       U            U
Ndao (EDU), Nenonene (ASST),
Almeida (OPER), Radji (ECO),
Ugorji (DISB)
3/1/00                      2   Ndao (EDU), Almeida (OPER)         S             S
6/2/00                      4   Ndao (EDU), Almeida (OPER),        S             S
Radji (ECO), Arigbo (ECON)
11/20/00                    4   Ndao (EDU), Almeida (OPER),        S            S
Abaglo (FIN), Arigbo (ECON)
5/21/2001                    1  Almeida (OPER)                     S             S
- 29 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                        180,489.77
Appraisal/Negotiation                                             180,489.77
Supervision                                                       472,992.22
Total                        I        __                          833,971.76
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
U Macro policies                      O H OSUOM       * N O NA
D Sector Policies                     O H OSUOM       * N O NA
O Physical                            O H OSUOM       O N O NA
O Financial                           O H OSUOM       * N O NA
O Institutional Development           0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                       O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
G Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM       O N O NA
L] Gender                       OH OSUOM        O N O NA
LI Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM       O N O NA
a Private sector development          0 H O SU O M 0 N     * NA
LI Public sector management           0 H O SU O M    * N 0 NA
5 Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N O NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS Ou * HU
O Supervision                                       OHS Os       * u   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       *  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
OI Preparation                                      OHS Os       * u    O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0  U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS O s     0  U   0 HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS       *  U   O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1992 - Letter to Minister of Education from Acting Division Chief Robert Crown
1995 - Letter from Roger Key, Acting Chief, AF4PH to Minister of Plan, Togo
regarding Conditions of Negotiations
1995 - Authorization to Negotiate cover memo to Regional Director from Acting Country Director
1995 - Communication to the Council of Ministers relative to the Education Support Fund
1995 - Minutes of the Negotiations
1995 - Memorandum of the President (MOP)
1995 - Country Assistance Strategy
1996 - Implementation Manual (Manuel d'Execution)
1996 - Togo -- Overcoming the Crisis, Overcoming Poverty, A World Bank Poverty Assessment
(Report No. 15526-TO)
1997 - Decree establishing the Education Support Fund
1998 - ICR for Togo Technical Education and Vocational Training Project (Cr. 2174-TO)
2000 - Togo Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report
2001 - Togo Health Sector Development Project (Kara Region) PAD
18 PSRs and related aide-memoires, covering the life of the project
All audit reports covering the life of the project
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report (English Summary and full report in
French)
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
ENGLISH SUMMARY
This project originally aimed to put an end to the degradation of the Togolese educational services and
to create an enabling institutional structure likely to later on favor the promotion of a reform.
In order to help the project co-ordinating staff solve the delay problem during the project execution, the
World Bank has decided since the end of 1998 to strengthen its support to the PAGED team. This new
measure was put in place in order to contribute an unprecedented dynamism to the whole of the team,
creating , as a matter of fact, a remarkable break-through at the level of the essential elements of the
project components. The proximity of both parties has made. communication easy.
The organization of the PAGED execution structures is a highly appreciated innovation for it involves
all of the ministerial departments. The setting up of the follow-up, steering, co-ordination and management
structures offers the project excellent implementation means. As a matter of fact, the functioning of these
various structures has permitted PAGED to well start off and to quickly find solutions to the problems
through these various structures.
On the whole, it could be assumed that the relationships between the World Bank and the Togoelese
Government have been satisfactory throughout the project execution and it is a fact that periodically
organized meetings such as the mid-term review, the follow-up and supervision missions and the category
-based portofolio reviews have permitted to solve the different problems.
PAGED was to solve the major problems of the education system as was specified in the project
objectives. It was also to ensure the availability of teachers, teaching materials and classrooms, to help
finance the teachers. Unfortunately, the premature termination of this important educational support has not
permitted to carry out most of the anticipated actions.
The various suspensions that have occurred throughout the project execution time period and its
termination whereas an 18 month time extension was requested for many reasons have not made it possible
to implement many programmed activities and which were vital and indispensable.
This situation will have serious consequences on the results and achievements, hence the urge to initiate
a future project in order to strengthen and consolidate the obvious although still fragile achievements of
PAGED.
A future education project should take shape as part of the new ten-year policy being elaborated and be
grounded in the relevant and realistic priorities of the sector by emphasizing:
- the training of the administrative and pedagogical personnel;
- the access to and staying in the system up to the end of cycle of study;
- the intemal and extemal efficiency of the system;
- the consolidation of the deconcentration/decentralization of the system;
- the strengthening of the dynamics of partnership;
- the improvement of the school environrnent through STI/HIV/AIDS sensitization programs;
- 34 -



- the consolidation of management, steering and planning capacities of the system;
- the system's institutional capacity building;
- the support to community-based initiatives.
- the support to community-based initiatives.
- 35 -



MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE ET DE LA                REPUBLIQUE TOGOLAISE
RECHERCHE                                      Travail-Libert6-Patrie
SECRETARIAT GENERAL
DIRECTION GENERALE DE LA PLANIFICATION DE
L'EDUCATION
PROJET D'APPUI A LA GESTION DE L'EDUCATION
Rapport d 'ache'vement
Projet d'Appui a la Gestion de I'Education
(PAGED) BANQUE MONDIALE
CREDIT IDA 2752-TO
Contribution de I'Emprunteur
- 36 -



Novembre 2001
PREFACE: IDENTIFICATION DU PROJET
DENOMINATION: Projet d'Appui A la Gestion de l'Education ( PAGED) de la Banque Mondiale
Numero d'identification          Credit IDA 2752-TO
Montant du credit                Millions US $ 46,6 dont
- IDA                       36,6 soit 78,5%
- Gouvemement               5,9 soit 12,7%
- Communaute                4,1 soit 8,8%
Dates
Evaluation                      7 juin 1995
Negociation                     30 octobre 1995
Approbation                    30 octobre 1995
Signature                      30 octobre 1995
Mise en vigueur                28 mars 1996
Lancement du Projet            28 mars 1996
Cl6ture du Projet              30 juin 2001
Coordinateurs:
Cote Banque Mondiale:
Bettina MOLL                       1996-1998
Ayite Fily d'ALMEIDA               1998-2001
Cote Gouvemement Togolais (MENR):
Kouami Mayi Mava KPEGLO            1996- Aouit 2000
Bouwissiwe Paalamwe LOMDO          1 er Sept 2000 - 30 juin 2001
- 37 -



I    CONTEXTE ECONOMIQUE ET SOCIO-POLITIQUE
La crise economique et financiere et les programmes d'ajustement structurel ont entrain6 la stagnation
des depenses publiques. Face A ces difficult6s, et sous l'effet du ralentissement de l'activite economique,
le budget du secteur de l'education a peu augmente. Cet environnement macro-economique peu favorable
s'est traduit par une diminution des ressources allouees au systeme ; les credits budgetaires ne couvrant
plus les besoins essentiels, la qualite de l'education en est serieusement affectee.
Par ailleurs, les troubles socio-politiques entre 1990 et 1993 et le desordre qui s'en est suivi ont aggrave
la situation dejA precaire du secteur educatif et accentue sa degradation.
Enfin, la devaluation du franc CFA en janvier 1994 a donne le coup de grace malgre les efforts de l'Etat
pour en reduire les effets.
La situation economique du pays s'est deterioree en raison de la conjugaison d'une serie de facteurs:
-    effets pervers des programmes d'ajustement structurel,
-    crise socio-politique et economique entrainant le gel de la cooperation avec certains partenaires
au developpement et la diminution de l'aide publique au developpement,
-    devaluation du franc CFA
1-1. SITUATION ET PROBLEMES DU SECTEUR
Les defis auxquels est fondamentalement confronte le systeme educatif togolais sont d'abord la
consequence des contraintes financieres et demographiques fortes qui le caracterisent.
Les problemes qui en decoulent, peuvent se resumer ainsi:
-    acces encore limite A l'enseignement: le taux de scolarisation est de 70 %
-    profondes inegalites d'acces des filles et des ruraux A l'education;
-    insuffisance notoire des infrastructures d'accueil dans les quatre degre d'enseignement;
-    effectifs plethoriques dans les classes;
-    insuffisance, voire inexistence de materiels didactiques et de manuels scolaires dans les
etablissements scolaires;
-    forte pression demographique;
-    insuffisance du personnel enseignant;
-    baisse des effectifs suite aux troubles socio-politiques et A la greve generale illimitee;
-    gel du recrutement dans la fonction publique sous l'effet des PAS;
-    recours exagere A l'utilisation d'enseignant vacataire;
-    insuffisance de formation pedagogique des enseignants;
-    insuffisance des ressources consacrees A l'education;
-    precarite de l'environnement du personnel enseignant
-    degradation des infrastructures et des equipements;
-    proliferation des EDIL;
-    encadrement pedagogique inadequat.
Ces contraintes financieres conjoncturelles ont entraine la degradation des conditions d'enseignement et
font peser une lourde hypotheque sur le bon deroulement des activites pedagogiques.
- 38 -



A ces problemes liees aux contraintes financieres et demographiques viennent s'ajouter les problbmes de
fonctionnement du systeme educatif que sont:
-    la tres faible efficacite inteme du systeme educatif togolais;
-    le faible taux de retention;
-    le fort taux de redoublement;
-    la faible qualite de l'education;
-    la faible capacite de gestion;
-    la forte centralisation de la gestion;
Le systeme educatif est ainsi entre dans une phase de crise et de blocage. C'est dans ce contexte que le
Projet d'Appui A la Gestion de l'Education (PAGED) a et negocie pour comger les incoherences et
assurer une education de qualite en tenant compte des besoins et des priorites de l'Etat.
1-2. OBJECTIFS ET PORTEE DU PROJET
Le projet vise A mettre fm A la degradation des services educatifs au Togo et A creer une structure
institutionnelle favorable A la mise en place d'une reforme A plus long terme . Pour ce faire le projet axe
ses interventions sur deux composantes:
Composante A: Amelioration de la qualite des ecoles Cette composante est constituee d'investissements
destines A soutenir le developpement de meilleures ecoles. Ainsi elle comporte trois (3) sous composantes:
Al- Remplacement et rehabilitation d'ecoles
Le projet financera au titre de la presente sous composante:
a-   la remise en etat de 440 salles de classe et le remplacement de 360 autres
b-   I'achat du materiel de bureau et des vehicules
c-   I'assistance technique pour les etudes sur les besoins de rehabilitation, les services d'architectes
d-   I'assistance technique pour la verification des proc6dures d'acquisition liees aux composantes .
A2- Fourniture de manuels scolaires
Compte tenu du manque chronique de manuels des eleves et des maitres dans les I er et 2e degre, cette
sous composante est chargee de:
a-   I'achat et distribution de manuels et de guides pour le primaire et pour le secondaire, soit
2.248.000 manuels et 41.000 guides du maitre au primaire et 507.000 manuels et 19.000 livres du
professeur au secondaire.
b-   la formation des enseignants A l'utilisation des livres,
c-   I'assistance technique pour la preparation des DAO et leur evaluation,
d-   la construction de 35 reserves pour la conservation des livres dans les ecoles;
A3- Initiative ecoles de qualite et scolarisation et scolarite des filles
11 s'agira d'une part de la formation continue des enseignants auxiliaires , des directeurs d'ecoles, des
conseillers pedagogiques et des inspecteurs A leurs r6les traditionnels et d'autre part A la recherche-action
- 39 -



pour e1aborer de petits projets d'ecole en vue d'ameliorer la qualite de I'ecole et de l'enseignement qui y
est dispense. II s'agira egalement de rechercher les voies et moyens adequats A mettre en ceuvre pour
encourager et maintenir dans le systeme, le maximum de filles possibles afin qu'elles terninent avec
succes leurs etudes.
Composante B: Amelioration de la gestion du svst6me.
Elle comporte quatre (4) sous composantes:
B 1- Recrutement et fmancement d6centralis6s de maitres.
Un Fonds de Soutien A l'Education (FSE) sera mis en place et finance par l'Etat, les communautes et les
bailleurs de fonds. Le FSE servira au paiement des salaires des enseignants auxiliaires dans un premier
temps et dans les moyen et long termes au developpement de l'ensemble du secteur educatif .
B2- Systeme d'information et de Communication
Elle vise A assurer et A ameliorer un service de soutien informatique au sein du MENR pour repondre
aux besoins d'information des services statistiques scolaires, de la carte scolaire et de la gestion du
personnel tant au niveau central que regional.
B3- Programmation et suivi budgetaire
II s'agit de renforcer les capacites des ressources du ministere A participer de maniere constructive au
processus d'arbitrage du budget au niveau inter et intra ministeriel, d'analyser les tendances des
depenses actuelles en vue d'identifier les gains de rentabilite, le suivi et I'analyse des depenses reelles
par rapport aux affectations budgetaires dans le contexte de la preparation des budgets futures.
B4- Consolidation de la restructuration ministerielle.
Elle vise la deconcentration et la decentralisation effective du systeme de gestion du secteur de
l'education A travers la mise en place des structures regionales et la formation de l'ensemble du
personnel dans ce contexte.
1-3. ORGANISATION ET REALISATION DU PROJET AU SEIN DU MENR, MINISTERE DE
TUTELLE, ET LES AUTHRES MINISTERES IMPLIQUES DANS LA GESTION DU PROJET:
Le MENR assume la responsabilite de l'execution du projet. La coordination et la gestion du projet
sont assurees par les services operationnels du ministere conformement A leurs attributions. Le suivi et
le pilotage seront respectivement effectues par un comite interninisteriel et une commission
ministerielle. Le projet est gere par un Coordonnateur nomme et l'execution des differentes sous
composantes des deux composante est assuree par des sous coordonnateurs sous la supervision du
Coordonnateur. Des relations de travail ont existe avec l'ensemble des ministeres y compris la
primature et la presidence de la republique dans le cadre du comite interministeriel de suivi. La
Commission Nationale des marches publics, composee de representants de plusieurs minist&res et de
plusieurs institutions privees de la place, est un partenaire privilegie pour les questions de passation de
marches.
- 40 -



II. CONCEPTION, EXECUTION, REALISATION ET IMPACT DU PROJET
2-1. EVALUATION DE LA CONCEPTION DU PROJET
Le projet dans sa conception, reflete parfaitement les priorites sectorielles tels que prevues dans le cadre
macro-economique. Les objectifs sont en coherence avec les problemes releves et les composantes en
adequation avec les objectifs. Toutefois l'on peut faire les remarques d'ordre general suivantes:
Les objectifs du projet etaient trop ambitieux eu egard A la situation tant politique et soco-politique et
economique (difficulte de mise en place de la contrepartie, greves des enseignants auxiliaires, mise en
ceuvre de certaines composantes relevant de la competence du parlement ou du gouvemement) et par
rapport au temps prevu (5ans) pour son execution.
2-2. PRINCIPAUX RESULTATS OBTENUS DANS CHACUNE DES COMPOSANTES DU
PROJET
Composante A: Amelioration de la qualite des ecoles.
Genie Civil
Les travaux de construction et de rehabilitation des salles de classe des ecoles primaires du Togo (liere
et 2ieme phases) ont pris fin en Mai 2001 . Sur les 38 lots attribues par appel d'offres, des premiere et
deuxieme phases, en plus des travaux resilies de la premiere phase qui ont ete attribues A d'autres
entreprises, 37 lots ont ete en tout realises, soit un taux de realisation de 97,4% et les receptions
provisoires prononcees .
Les Bureaux d'etudes techniques BET ont assume A 100% leur contrat et le paiement des dernieres
factures tant pour les BET que pour les entreprises est effectue A la levee de la suspension des
decaissements .
L'ANO pour la construction des reserves de stockage des manuels scolaires, a obtenu les marches qui
sont signes par les services techniques, mais malheureusement avec la suspension et la cloture du Projet,
cet important volet n'a pu etre execute.
Mobiliers scolaires
La premiere phase pour les dossiers d'appel d'offres des mobiliers scolaires pour les classes a ete lanc6e
et l'adjudication a ete faite depuis juin 1998 . Les mobiliers (4500 tables-bancs, 150 bureaux du maitre
et 150 chaises et 300 chaises visiteurs) ont ete livres dans les salles de classe depuis janvier 1999.Les
appels d'offres pour la deuxieme phase ont ete lances et l'adjudication a ete faite depuis janvier 2001,
mais pour cause de la suspension et ensuite de la cloture du projet, cette deuxieme phase n'a pas
demarre
- 41 -



Fourniture de manuels scolaires
Pour le premier degre
I1 est prevu la reimpression de 2 248 000 livres de lecture, de calcul et de sciences et de 41 000 guides
pour le 1 er degre. Devant le refus des editeurs de ceder les copyrights au ministere et compte tenu du
temps tres court qui restait pour la cl6ture du credit , il a et achete en accord avec la Banque Mondiale
par Appel d'Offres Intemational sur le marche, des livres de lecture, de calcul et de sciences pour les
ecoles primaires et Ecoles d'Initiatives Locales (EDIL) du Togo. Ces livres sont livres et distribues
suivant un plan de colisage defini A  l'avance et execute comme tel par les foumisseurs.
Pour le deuxieme degre
Tous les manuels commandes par appel d'offres intemational dans le cadre de cette sous composante
soit 507 000 livres pour les eleves et 19 000 livres du professeur et du materiel de renforcement ont ete
distribues par la LIMUSCO aux colleges d'enseignement general vises par le projet.
Pour une gestion efficace des livres, des comites de gestion ont ete installes dans les colleges
d'enseignement general par arrete ministeriel .
Formation des enseignants, initiatives ecoles de qualite et scolarisation et scolarite desfilles
Cette composante comporte trois sous volets:
*   sous volet formation A la recherche-action( inspecteurs, conseillers pedagogiques, directeurs
d'ecoles et presidents des APE << Communautes villageoises )>. cette formation doit deboucher sur la
formulation et la mise en ceuvre des projets d'ecole.
* sous volet formation continue en cours d'emploi ( Enseignants auxiliaires);
* sous volet scolarisation et scolarite des filles ( recherche des voies et moyens pour l'amelioration de
la scolarite des filles A travers des petits projets d'ecole.)
Lors de la revue A mi-parcours du PAGED, de nouvelles orientations ont e  donnees A cette composante
recentrant les actions au niveau de l'ecole avec un accent particulier sur l'appui A apporter aux Ecoles
d'Initiatives Locales (EDIL). Dans ce contexte cette composante comporte les volets suivants:
* Reduction du taux de redoublement, introduction du double flux dans les ecoles primaires
publiques et appui direct A donner aux EDIL;
* Formation continue ou en cours d'emploi des enseignants auxiliaires;
* Appui A la scolarisation et la scolarite des filles ( recherche des voies et moyens pour l'amelioration
de la scolarite des filles A travers de petits projets d'ecoles en partenariat avec les ONG ).
Pour ce qui conceme la double vacation la phase d'experimentation fmie, la phase de generalisation a
commence depuis la rentree 1999-2000 et devait atteindre sa phase de generalisation sur toute l'etendue
du territoire national lorsque la suspension et plus tard la cl6ture du credit sont intervenues. En ce qui
conceme les appuis A apporter aux ecoles d'initiatives locales la prise en charge des enseignants des
EDIL a ete effective d'avril 2000 A Decembre 2000, 265 000 000 Fcfa ont et verses aux Associations
des Parents d'Eleves (AEP) pour le paiement d'un pecule de 15 000 Fcfa A 3 153 enseignants
volontaires sur les 6 453 recenses. En ce qui conceme la formation continue des enseignants auxiliaires
en cours d'emploi du primaire, les inspecteurs ont elabore des strategies de formation homologuees et
generalisees qui ont et approuvees par la Banque ainsi que le manuel de formation des enseignants
auxiliaires. 4.500 enseignants ont et forrnes.
-42 -



Pour ce qui est de I'appui a la scolarisation et A la scolarite des filles des accords ont ete signes avec les
ONG intervenant dejA dans le domaine. Des seances de travail ont regroupe les representants des ONG
et la coordination sur la recherche des voies et moyens pour ameliorer la scolarite des filles A travers de
petits projets en partenariat avec lesdites ONG. Des projets ont ete soumis A la coordination du
PAGED avec des montants precis.
Composante B: Amelioration de la gestion du systeme.
Gestion des Enseignants auxiliaires et Fonds de Soutien a I 'Education
La loi creant le Fonds de Soutien A l'Education (FSE) a e adopte par l'Assemblee Nationale , en
attendant les decrets d'application, un arr8te portant organisation et fonctionnement du FSE a ete pris.
Cet arrete definit egalement les domaines d'intervention du fonds et les differentes rubriques.
La mobilisation des diverses sources de fmancement A savoir les contributions du budget general, et
l'ecolage permettent de payer le salaire des enseignants auxiliaires du premier degre.
Systeme d 'Information
Un consultant international a realise des etudes sur le systeme d'information du MENR et forme des
decideurs A l'interrogation de l'interface conviviale. Cependant sa demiere mission pour peaufiner le
travail a ete egalement bloque par la suspension des decaissements.
Programmation et suivi budgetaire
Les equipements informatiques A mettre en place et la formation du personnel de la Direction des
Affaires comnnunes au compte de cette composante dependent de la mise en place du schema directeur
informatique et de l'installation des materiels qu'il faudra acquerir pour les directions.
Le personnel des directions des affaires financieres, de la direction de la planification de 1'education et
de la direction des ressources humaines ont ete forme A la programmation et au suivi budgetaire. Un
consultant intemational a realise des etudes et a participe A la formation du personnel sur la
programmation et le suivi budgetaire.
Consolidation de la restructuration ministerielle
Cette composante est destinee A la restructuration du ministere dans le sens de la regionalisation de
l'Education. Apres la creation des directions regionales de l'education, des termes de reference pour le
partage des competences entre les directions centrales et les directions regionales afm d'eviter les
conflits de competences et les goulots d'etranglement et ameliorer la qualite des services administratifs
et pedagogiques sur le terrain ont ete elabores et soumis A la Banque. Un consultant international a ete
choisi pour realiser les etudes sur la presente composante. I1 n'a pas pu executer son contrat pour les
memes raisons de suspension des decaissements.
2-3. COORDINATION ET GESTION DU PROJET
*   Acquisition et formation: Le bureau de la coordination a beneficie pour son fonctionnement et la
supervision des activites du projet assuree par la DGPE, d'un equipement en materiel roulant ( 7
vehicules dont 2 sont affectes au Cabinet du Ministre et 8 motos), en materiel informatique ( 8
micros ordinateurs ) en mat&riel bureautique ( 2 photocopieurs) en mobilier et en fournitures de
bureau.
- 43 -



*   Responsabilite du coordinateur: Les attributions du coordinateur ont ete bien definies dans le
rapport d'evaluation . Malgre les changements du coordinateur la gestion du projet est restee de
caractere participative.
*   Relation entre le Coordinateur du projet et les decideurs politiques (tous les ministeres concernes):
Les rapports de travail surtout au niveau du comite intenninisteriel de suivi sont sains. Cependant
de petites contraintes liees surtout a la lenteur administrative (retard dans la signature de certains
dossiers parfois dui au changement de gouvemement) sont a remarquer. Pour les decisions toutes
les dispositions possibles sont prises pour faciliter l'execution du projet, sauf dans le cas de la mise
en place de la contrepartie nationale.
*   Relation entre le Coordinateur du projet et les directeurs techniques: les relations entre le
Coordinateur du projet et les directeurs techniques sont de nature a favoriser l'execution rapide du
projet, surtout dans le cadre de la commission de pilotage.
2-4. IMPACT DU PROJET DANS LA MISE EN OEUVRE DE LA POLITIQUE NATIONALE DU
SECTEUR DE L'EDUCATION
Ce Projet a effectivementjoue son r6le d'appui a la gestion du systeme a travers toutes ses composantes.
Son caractere ambitieux ne permet pas de faire a chaud un bilan objectif. Une 6valuation de son
execution et de son impact s'impose donc. Neanmoins, on peut aisement constater les effets negatifs de
sa cl6ture sur le fonctionnement du systeme. La preuve de son utilite et de sa pertinence en est ainsi
demontree. Le PAGED a cree une certaine dynamique et genere des acquis qui permnettront au MENR
d'entamer avec aisance 1'elaboration de la strategie decennale pour le secteur de l'education et de la
formation professionnelle qui deviendra le cadre logique des futures interventions dans le secteur de
l'education.
III- ANALYSE CRITIQUE DE L'ACTION DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE,
DU GOUVERNEMENT ET DE L'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
3-1. APPRECIATION DE L'ACTION DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE AU COURS DE
L'EXECUTION DU PROJET
Dans le but d'aider la coordination du projet a enrayer le probleme de retard dans 1'execution du projet,
la Banque a decide depuis la fm de l'annee 1998 de renforcer son appui a l'equipe du PAGED. Ainsi
M. Fily d'ALMEIDA a assume le suivi quotidien de l'ensemble du projet. Ce nouveau dispositif qui a
ete mis en place a insuffIl un dynamisme sans precedent a l'ensemble de I'equipe, entrainant de facto
une avancee remarquable de l'essentiel des composantes du projet. La proximite des deux parties a
rendu facile la communication. La duree d'attente pour l'obtention des avis de non objection s'est
considerablement reduite, ameliorant ainsi de maniere spectaculaire les performances de la
coordination.
3-2. APPRECIATION DE L'ACTION DU GOUVERNEMENT AU COURS DE L'EXECUTION DU
PROJET
L'organisation des structures d'execution du PAGED est une innovation fort appreciable car, elle
implique l'ensemble des departements ministeriels . La mise en place des structures de suivi, de pilotage,
de coordination et de gestion offre d'excellents moyens de mise en ceuvre du projet. En effet, le
fonctionnement de ces differentes structures a permis au PAGED de bien demarrer et de trouver tres
rapidement des solutions aux problemes a travers ces differentes structures. Cependant, la
- 44 -



coordination du PAGED s'est trouve confrontee a des problemes qui ont un caractere technique mais
qui appellent des decisions politiques:
*   le Comite Interministeriel de Suivi comprend les 6 ministres impliques dans l'execution du projet,
*   Ia CommisAon de Pilotage regroupe tous les ministeres impliques dans l'execution du projet;
*   et le Comite de Coordination regroupe les sous-coordinateurs representants les directions du
MENR.
En effet, l'introduction du double flux dans le systeme educatif togolais, la reduction du taux de
redoublement par le passage automatique, la decision de permettre aux ecoles de garder les ressources
issues de l'ecolage et de la location des manuels scolaires, le financement des enseignants auxiliaires,
ainsi que le budget du secteur et l'accord sur une base de paiement et le type de partenariat avec les
organisation non gouvemementales releve beaucoup plus du Gouvemement que de la coordination du
PAGED. L'ensemble de ces actions necessite en effet une concertation approfondie et permanente entre
tous les acteurs et partenaires de l'Education mais surtout des decisions du Gouvemement.
3-3. EVALUATION DE L'L EFFICACITE ET DE LA QUALITE DES RELATIONS ENTRE LA
BANQUE MONDIALE ET LE GOUVERNEMENT DURANT L'EXECUTION DU PROJET
Globalement on peut estimer que les relations entre la Banque et le gouvemement ont e satisfaisantes
durant 1'execution du projet du fait des rencontres periodiques organisees, telles la revue a mi-parcours,
les missions de suivi et de supervision, les revues du portefeuille par categories qui ont pernnis de
resoudre les differents problemes.
IV- EVALUATION ECONOMIQUE ET FINANCIERE DU PROJET
4- 1. COUT TOTAL DU PROJET
Prevision de d6part et cofits reels pour les differentes composantes du projet : le coft total du projet
est de 46,6 millions de dollars EU soit environ 24 698 000 000 de francs CFA ($1=530 FCFA en
1996). II est a remarquer que ce couit total est constitue par la part de l'IDA (36,6 millions de dollars)
de la part du Gouvemement (5,9 millions de dollars ) et de la part des communautes locales (4,1
millions de dollars), mais vu les difficultes de mise en place de la totalite de la contrepartie (soit 865
500 000 de dette envers les tiers) le projet n'a dispose que de la part effective de l'IDA qui a et
absorbee a hauteur de 56 %.
Valeur et niveau de recouvrement de la contrepartie du Gouvemement : initialement la contrepartie
togolaise etait fixee a 5,9 millions de dollars EU soit 3 127 000 000 de Francs CFA. Mais seule la
somme de 953 823 772 ( hors salaires des E.A) a e recouvree pendant la duree du projet.
-45 -



4-2. CONSEQUENCES DE LA FIN DU PROJET SUR LES ACQUIS OBTENUS DANS LE
CADRE DU PAGED
Le PAGED devait resoudre les problemes majeuTs du systeme educatif comme precise dans les
objectifs du projet . II devait alors assurer la disponibilite en enseignants, en materiels didactiques et en
salles de classe, aider au financement des enseignants. Malheureusement la cl6ture prematuree de cet
important appui a l'education n'a pas permis de realiser beaucoup d'actions programmees pour:
i-  ameliorer la qualite d'accueil et d'acces a I'education;
ii-  amnliorer la qualite de 1'enseignement;
iii- ameliorer 1'efficacite intemee;
iv- ameliorer la scolarisation et la scolarite de la jeune fille;
v-  assainir 1'environnement scolaire;
vi- elever le niveau de sensibilisation contre l'IST-SIDA;
vii- assurer un bon pilotage du systeme (deconcentration avec realisation des infrastructures
d'accueil);
viii- appuyer la mobilisation communautaire.
V- PERSPECTIVE ET URGENCE D'UN NOUVEAU PROJET
Justification d'un nouveau projet
Les diverses suspensions survenues durant 1'execution du projet, puis sa cloture, alors qu'une
prorogation de 18 mois etait demandee pour les raisons ci-dessus mentionnees n'ont pas permis de
mettre en ceuvre beaucoup d'activites programmees et qui sont pourtant vitales et indispensables.
Cette situation aura des consequences serieuses sur les resultats et acquis, d'oii la necessite d'initier un
futur projet pour renforcer et consolider les acquis tangibles mais encore fragiles du PAGED.
Un futur projet-education doit s'inscrire dans le cadre de la nouvelle politique decennale en cours de
preparation et se fonder sur les priorites pertinentes et realistes du secteur en mettant l'accent sur:
-   la formation du personnel administratif et pedagogique;
-   l'acces et le maintien dans le systeme jusqu'a la fin du cycle;
-   1'efficacite inteme et exteme du systeme;
-   le renforcement de la deconcentration/decentralisation du systeme;
-   le renforcement de la dynamique partenariale;
-   I'amelioration de l'environnement scolaire a travers des programmes de sensibilisation sur les
IST/VIH/SIDA;
-   le renforcement des capacites de gestion, de pilotage et de planification du systeme;
-   le renfor9ement des capacites institutionnelles du systeme;
-   I'appui aux initiatives communautaires.
- 46 -



IBRD 29364
BURKINA FASO                                  MA A LI
NIGER
DAPAONE      M d                                 BURKINA         g    '
,--      cS 7                                        f > 1 BENIN -
"v   s\V}    N A  |          B E N    I N        o  . GHANA             NIGERIA
.\% OTGondO!                 BEN      N> ( I__G-d
Nomn, ER    i 
GHANA         (,_
\           Gue~~~~.riA k. uo    ip
KSARA            R.T                       G
a~~        ~~~~                 ~          ~        ~~~ A R (K  T O G O
/   tl Bolil  \   -  M   AIN ROADS
A1  SOLI '  I   ossor  )>   ,ROUTES PRINCIPALES
-                  . . .. ....... SELECTED SECONDARY ROADS
ROUTES SECONDAIRES CHOISIES
9'                               r                               b \ N ................ COURS D'EAU IMPORTANTS
k- I   _0J \~>  f C           SvELECTED TOWNS
PREFECTURE CAPITALS
CHEFS-LIEUX DE PREFECTURE
NT R AL        !X        REGION CAPITALS
kCHEFS-LIEUX DE REGION
11-1 Szf   *   ( Sotoubouo {5   \ tNATIONAL CAPITAL
7   0   s   SOTOU OUA              V e    *   ~~~~~~~   ~     ~    ~~~~CAPITALEI
----  _PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES  (
IUMITES DE PREFECTURES
I <,10 , _ _REGION BOUNDARIES
_r - ,1     *;?          c}            \                        LIMITES DE REGIONS
I_ -S ,  "u l __INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0i:  .>  , >  SJ  7/iFRONTE INTERNATIONALES
,G ,                This mop was prepared by   0
:_ c .  Bodoou  { AMOU ( /                the Map Design Unit of the
_ndes  _   MOU             _              0 aV World Bank. The   m
--~ 5 r  | ~l I  i  Aml2DIlTAKPAME9  j  boundaries, colors,  )
v  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~~P          TAU          4denominations and any 
;1  *_ (f  ~  P Li T E A U H  /1 \   other information shown
- _   k Jon this mop do not  I
I       ~~~~imply, on the pot ofL
?x. O -  / jf ()  1   ~ X)  |    The World Bank Group,
7/                    t->\           status a any territory,
70  ~~~  O ,   j/LoEo )   A H O  toj          X ~~~~~~~~  ~~~or any edoremnl  
-7-                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or acceptance of such  7'
- ~~~ S S t/~Kpoimn, _-                           boundaries.
_,  __,,, ! 1 1 4  \  A  X  Y-'t      5  ~~~~~~~~~~~ 25  50  75  100 
,  | ,7  X   t    V   l     |  |~~~~~~     ~    ~   ~~~ YOT 0  KILOMETERS  
~~-~~  <>t    \ >- tX  ) ~~~~~~z I 0 |  Fhbpe,> 
-.s. AR R                                           - 
'-\   \ < A !   - <  g  .    I,4t 1.  '
JANUARY 1998



