CREDIT NUMBER 2752 TO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Education Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated O:'-k 30, 1995


﻿Credit No. 2752 TO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       0 c      -, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
TOGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS (B) the Association has received a letter, dated May 30, 1995, from
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
implement the Borrower's strategy in the education sector (hereinafter referred to as the
Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of such program;
WHEREAS (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of
ny country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to
the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.".


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "Auxiliary teachers" means the teaching staff recruited and employed by
the Borrower on the basis of fixed-term contracts;
(b)    "MENRS" means Minist6re de l'Education Nationale et de la Recherche
Scientifique, the Borrower's ministry responsible for National Education and Scientific
Research;
(c)    "DRH" means Direction des Ressources Humaines, the directorate
responsible for administration and human resources within MENRS;
(d)    "DGPE" means Direction G6nerale de la Planification de I'Education, the
general directorate responsible for education planning within MENRS;
(e)    "DAF" means Division des Affaires Financieres, the division responsible
for Financial Affairs within DGPE;
(f)    "METFP" means Ministere de l'Enseignement Technique et de la
Formation Professionnelle, the Borrower's ministry responsible for Technical Education
and Vocational Training;
(g)    "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement;
(h)    "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual adopted by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(i)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated July
17, 1992 and July 22, 1992 and October 17, 1994 and November 16, 1994 respectively
between the Borrower and the Association;
0)     "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;


﻿-3-
(k)    "Steering Committee" means the education sector management committee
established by the Borrower pursuant to Borrower's Arret6 No. 123/MENRS, dated
November 13, 1992;
(1)    "CFA Francs" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(M)    "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which begins
January 1 and ends December 31 each year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty three million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 23,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain
in CFA francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1 %) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1 %) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April
15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2005 and ending April 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2015 shall be one
percent (1 %) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each


﻿-5-
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through MENRS, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate economic, financial, administrative, and pedagogical practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project; and
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section,
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Project Impl6mentation Manual.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)    establish and maintain a Project Account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association to be used exclusively for the purposes of
meeting expenditures for the Project, to be financed through the Borrower's contribution;
and


﻿-6-
(b)    in addition to the initial deposit referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of this
Agreement, deposit into the Project Account, promptly before each calendar quarter
starting after the Effective Date, sufficient funds to pay the Borrower's contribution to
the financ'a of the Project required for such calendar quarter, as estimated by the
Borrower in agreement with the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall: (a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall redeploy teaching personnel at the secondary
school level in accordance with the objectives and timetable set forth in the Program.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not later than March 31, 1996, issue an Arret6
acceptable to the Association, for the establishment and operation of a textbook loan and
decentralized rental mechanism for primary and secondary school students respectively,
which shall include, inter alia, provisions relating to management responsibilities,
reporting and audit requirements.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than November 30 of each year
commencing November 30, 1996, undertake with the Association a joint annual review
of the Project (or, as the case may be, not later than 30 months after the Effective Date,
a midterm review), during which they shall exchange views generally on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under this Agreement and, in particular:


﻿-7-
(i)    the status of.disbursement and procurement performance under
the Project;
(ii)   the progress in the execution and management of the civil works;
(iii)  the effectiveness of the technical assistance, the implementation
of training activities and the performance of trained staff;
(iv)   the establishment of processes to improve student learning and
teaching;
(v)    the textbook procurement and distribution system, and the
textbook maintenance system;
(vi)   the annual work programs; and
(vii)  the reporting, accounting, and auditing performance.
(b)    in order to facilitate the reviews referred to in paragraph (a) above,
prepare and submit to the Association, not later than four weeks before the scheduled
date of the reviews, a report on Project activities of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested.
(c)    as part of the midterm review: (i) adopt an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, based on and having due regard to the recommendations of the said review;
and (ii) promptly thereafter, implement such plan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1996: (a) adopt an
action plan with a timetable, satisfactory to the Association, describing a program of
actions and measures necessary for the creation of an education support fund intended,
inter alia, to finance the salaries of auxiliary teachers; and (b) promptly thereafter
implement such action plan.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal
year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year or three
months after the end of each such semester, as the case may be,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) of this
Section audited on a semiannual basis, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-9-
(iii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iv)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and
(v)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audit
prepared on a semiannual basis, referred to in paragraph (c) (ii)
of this Section and furnished to the Association not later than six
months after the end of such semiannual audit period, and that
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal semester, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that thu Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)    the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Manual, satisfactory
to the Association, outlining the procurement, disbursement and other implementation
arrangements for the Project, including the operational guidelines for the textbook loan
mechanism at the primary school level and the operational guidelines for textbook rental
and replacement at the lower-secondary level;


﻿- 10 -
(b)    the Borrower has employed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b)
of this Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(c)    the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Association bid
documents, satisfactory to the Association, for the goods scheduled to be procured during
the first twelve months after the Effective date;
(d)    the Borrower has employed the consultants whose services are required
under the Project, during the first twelve months after the Effective date as set forth in
the Project Implementation Manual, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(e)    the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein
the initial deposit in an amount in CFA francs equivalent to $250,000.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re de l'Economie et des Finances
B.P. 387
Lom6
Togo
Cable address:              Telex:
MINFIE                       5286
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INDEVAS                      248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.                     82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By/1               i/      Of    j/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/Y         06 J          AA       CcL
6   Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works                      4,130,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
(2) Equipment and                     450,000           100% of foreign
Vehicles                                           expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
(3) Textbooks                        6,350,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
(4) Consultants                      4,000,000          100%
Services and
Training
(5) Operating Costs                   640,000          95%
(6) Auxiliary teachers               5,530,000         80% until December
salaries                                           31, 1998; and 40%
thereafter


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(7)  Refunding of                       260,000           Amounts due
Project Preparation                                  pursuant to
Advance                                               Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                       1,940,000
TOTAL                            23,300,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower, provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
(c)    the term "operating costs" means the incremental Project related costs
incurred on account of vehicles maintenance and insurance, equipment maintenance,
acquisition of office supplies and equipment, staff salaries, travel costs and per diem,
utilities and fuel; and
(d)    the term "auxiliary teacher salaries" means the incremental Project related
expenditures incurred on account of the payment of salaries of auxiliary teachers.
3.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods,
works and employment of consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and for
expenditures under contracts for employment of individual consultants not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving the
quality of schools through in-service training of primary school teachers, school
construction and rehabilitation, textbook provision, and the introduction of school-based
experiments in teaching and learning processes; and (ii) developing better education
system management through decentralized recruitment and financing of teachers and
development of system management tools.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Improvement of Quality of Schools
1.     Rehabilitation of about 440 classrooms, construction of about 360 primary
classrooms and of book storage facilities.
2.     Production, acquisition and distribution of about: (i) 2,300,000 textbooks and
41,000 teachers' guides for the primary school level; and (ii) 510,000 textbooks and
20,000 teachers' guides for the lower-secondary school level.
3.     Carrying out of: (i) in service training program for primary school teachers; (ii)
a training program for primary and lower secondary school teachers and school directors
in the use and maintenance of textbooks; and (iii) an awareness raising campaign on the
maintenance of textbooks stock, geared towards parents' associations.
4.     Strengthening of DAF  iaff's capacity to develop technical and pedagogic
specifications for textbook purchase and publishing through the provision of technical
advisory services.
5.     Design and implementation of school-based action research projects intended to
improve teaching and learning methods at the primary school level.
6.     Acquisition of equipment, supplies and vehicles for above activities.


﻿- 16 -
Part B: Better Education System Management
1.    Implementation of the Borrower's strategy for the decentralization of teachers'
recruitment and financing through the establishment of consultative regional school
boards and a decentralized education fund, the development of criteria for decentralized
personnel management, the creation of additional auxiliary teachers positions, the design
of financial and auditing procedures and the training of financial managers at the regional
level.
2.     Strengthening of MENRS's capacity in the areas of computerized information
system management and budgetary programming and monitoring through, inter alia, the
provision of technical advisory services, the carrying out of regional training workshops,
seminars and field surveys, and the acquisition of office equipment, supplies and vehicles.
3.    Implementation of MENRS restructuring through the carrying out of periodic
yearly training seminars for all school directors, pedagogic and placement counselors,
inspectors, and teacher trainers, the training of the Examinations Directorate staff, the
acquisition of equipment, office supplies and vehicles, the provision of technical advisory
services, and carrying out a program of study visits.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section 1:    Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:       General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in January 1995 (Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:       International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)    Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)    Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraph 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
Civil works for the construction and rehabilitation of classrooms and book storage
facilities may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 18 -
2.     National Shopping
Items, or groups of items, for small materials and supplies estimated to cost
$10,000 equivalent or less per contract and $50,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.     Procurement from UN Agencies
Individual vehicles and minor office equipment, estimated to cost $50,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement
Service Office of the United Nations Development Project in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, procurement of all goods and works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:   Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing


﻿- 19 -
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as
shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets,
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference
for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent
or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.     The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project the Steering
Committee, chaired by a representative of the minister responsible for MENRS, and
including, inter alia, the Secretary General, the Director General of Planning of
Education, the General Directors of Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary Schooling, the
Director of Evaluation, the General Director of Administration, the Director of Financial
Affairs, the Permanent Secretary of the Conseil Sup6rieur de l'Education Nationale and
the Project coordinator, all within MENRS.
2.     The Steering Committee shall be responsible for the coordination of Project
execution. It shall: (i) carry out periodic evaluations of the technical advisory services
provided under the Project; (ii) participate in the midterm review and the annual reviews
referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, (iii) assist in the drafting and preparation
of the implementation completion report, (iv) discuss prior to the end of each semester,
the draft work programs prepared by the Project coordinator; and (v) furnish to the
Association for comments not later than July 31 and January 31 of each year, semiannual
reports including, inter alia, an assessment of the strengths and weaknesses in the
execution of the Project and the draft work program for the following six-month period.
3.     During the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall employ under Part
A. 1 of the Project, a verification firm in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.     Without any limitation on its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall: (a) not later than November 30 of each year, beginning November
30, 1995, review with the Association the execution of the current budget of the
education sector for the ongoing fiscal year as well as assess the resource requirements
for the following fiscal year; (b) on the basis of such review and assessment, each year
prepare the annual current budget for the following fiscal year with appropriate
allocations, to cover salary and non-salary recurrent costs for the education sector for that
year, having due regard to the Association's comments and consistent with the provisions
of the letter referred to in preamble (B) of this Agreement;


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent in CFA
francs to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited
to an amount equivalent in CFA francs to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested


﻿- 22 -
(b)    (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that .uch payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or


﻿- 23 -
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Arsociation shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
Genrral Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
-Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


