                                    Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                           Report No: ICR00002085



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-37880 IDA-3788A)


                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15 MILLION
                           (US$ 20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
                                        TO THE
                        PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
                      FOR AN ADAPTABLE PROGRAM CREDIT
      DECENTRALIZED INFRASTRUCTURE FOR RURAL TRANSFORMATION
               IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
DECENTRALIZED INFRASTRUCTURE FOR RURAL TRANSFORMATION PROGRAM



                                  November 23 , 2011




Latin America Sustainable Development Department
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective September 17, 2011)

                                       Currency Unit = Bolivianos (Bs.)
                                             1.00 Bs. = US$ 0.14
                                               US$ 1.00 = 6.9

                                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                             January 1–December 31

                                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APC        Adaptable Program Credit                         Klm       Kilolumen
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                      LAC       Latin America and Caribbean
CO2        Carbon Dioxide                                   M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
COTEL      Cooperativa de Teléfonos de La Paz               MFI       Microfinance Institution
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Report            MSC       Medium-Term Service Contract
EA         Environmental Assessment                         NBI       Index of unsatisfied needs (Necesidades Básicas
                                                                      Insatisfechas)
EIRR       Economic Intemal Rate of Return                  NCB       National Competitive Bidding
EMP        Environmental Management Plan                    NGO       Non Governmental Organization
ENTEL      Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones           NPV       Net Present Value
ERTIC      Electrificación Rural y Tecnologias de           O&M       Operation and Maintenance
           Información y Comunicación
ESMAP      Energy Strategy Management Assistance            OBA       Output Based Aid
           Program
FASU       Universal service fund                           PCU       Project Coordination Unit
FNDR       Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional            PHRD      Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
FIS        Fondo de Inversión Social                        PLABER    Plan Bolivia de Electrificación Rural
FM         Financial Management                             PPF       Project Preparation Facility
FMR        Financial Monitoring Report                      PRONER    Programa Nacional de Electrificación Rural
FPS        Fondo Productivo y Social                        PRONTER   Programa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
                                                                      Rurales
FUNDETIC   Fundación para el Desarrollo de Tecnologias de   PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
           Información y Comunicación
GDC        Grid Densification Component                     PV        Photovoltaic
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                           QER       Quality Enhancement Review
GHG        Greenhouse Gas                                   RE        Rural Electrification
GOB        Government of Bolivia                            SAC       Sector Adjustment Credit
GIZ        Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale         SHS       Solar Home System (s)
           Zusammenarbeit GmbH
HH         Household                                        SIC       Sector Investment Credit
ICB        International Competitive Bidding                SITTEL    Superintendencia de Telecomunicaciones
ICT        Information and Communication Technologies       SME       Small and medium-sized enterprises
IDA        International Development Association            SOE       Statement of Expenditure
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank                  TOR       Terms of Reference
IDTR       Infraestructura Descentralizada para la          VMEAE     Vice Ministry of Electricity and Alternative
           Transformación Rural                                       Energy
IPDF       Indigenous People Development Framework          VMEH      Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons
IPDP       Indigenous People Development Plan               VMT       Vice Ministry of Telecommunications
IRR        Internal Rate of Return                          WTP       Willingness to pay



                                      Vice President: Pamela Cox

                                   Country Director: Susan Goldmark
                                     Sector Manager: Chandra Shekhar Sinha (acting)

                              Project Team Leader: Lucia Spinelli
                                  ICR Team Leader: Fernando Lecaros
                                           BOLIVIA
                     Decentralized Infrastructure for Rural Transformation




                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...............................................1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...............................................5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes...........................................................................................11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .........................................................13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................13
  6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................14
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...........16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...........................................................................17
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..................................................................................19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..................................................................21
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............25
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................27
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Result
  28
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR......................29
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................32
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................33
 MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                              Decentralized
Country:                Bolivia                     Project Name:             Infrastructure for Rural
                                                                              Transformation
Project ID:             P073367                     L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-37880,IDA-3788A
ICR Date:               11/29/2011                  ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                              GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                         Borrower:
                                                                              BOLIVIA
Original Total
                        XDR 15.00M                  Disbursed Amount:         XDR 13.76M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 15.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministerio de Hidrocarburos y Energía
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/09/2002         Effectiveness:          12/18/2003            12/18/2003
                                                                                       08/09/2007
Appraisal:            03/10/2003         Restructuring(s):                             01/27/2010
                                                                                       04/07/2011
Approval:             06/17/2003         Mid-term Review:                              12/04/2006
                                         Closing:                12/31/2007            05/27/2011


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                    i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Information technology                                                33                     5
Power                                                                 33                  40
Renewable energy                                                      34                  55


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                20                  20
Other rural development                                               40                  50
Other urban development                                               20                  15
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                             20                  15


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Susan G. Goldmark                    Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:            Chandra Shekhar Sinha                Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:       Lucia Spinelli                       Dana Rysankova
ICR Team Leader:           Fernando Lecaros
ICR Primary Author:        Fernando Lecaros




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to expand and improve delivery of electricity and
ICT services through private-sector led mechanisms as a catalyst for the development of
rural areas in Bolivia.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project development objective is to expand and improve delivery of electricity
through private-sector led mechanisms as a catalyst for the development of rural areas in
Bolivia.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                          Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
  Indicator       Baseline Value
                                            approval          Target      Completion or
                                          documents)          Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of equivalent Photovoltaic (PV) Solar Home Systems (SHS) installed
Value
quantitative or                        15000              10000         10174
Qualitative)
Date achieved                          12/18/2003         04/04/2011    05/27/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Number of Service Management Contracts for PV SHS;
Value
quantitative or                        6                                4
Qualitative)
Date achieved                          12/18/2003                       05/27/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of new users connected under grid densification
Value
quantitative or                        300                15000         20073
Qualitative)
Date achieved                          12/18/2003         04/04/2011    05/27/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Number of new cellular phone connections in rural areas
Value
quantitative or                        25000              Dropped
Qualitative)
Date achieved                          12/18/2003         07/16/2007



                                            iii
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Rural population covered by new cellular phone services
Value
quantitative or                         1000000              Dropped
Qualitative)
Date achieved                           12/18/2003           07/16/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Number of new productive users of electricity under the PV SHS and Productive
Indicator 6 :
                Uses components
Value
quantitative or                         100                                 356
Qualitative)
Date achieved                           12/18/2003                          05/27/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Tons of carbon dioxide abated
Value
quantitative or                         14000                10000          11537
Qualitative)
Date achieved                           12/18/2003           04/04/2011     05/27/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Country Gateway fully operational by end of project
Value
quantitative or                         Completed                           Completed
Qualitative)
Date achieved                           12/18/2003                          05/27/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                      Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of equivalent Photovoltaic (PV) Solar Home Systems (SHS) installed
Value
(quantitative                             4000              10000         10174
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             12/18/2003        04/04/2011    05/27/2011


                                               iv
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
        Date ISR
No.                          DO                       IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    11/25/2003       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    06/04/2004       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                    0.35
  3    11/30/2004       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                    0.60
  4    04/25/2005       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.60
  5    11/21/2005       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.80
  6    06/23/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              2.10
                         Moderately              Moderately
  7    12/15/2006                                                               2.24
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately              Moderately
  8    06/22/2007                                                               3.44
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                                                 Moderately
  9    11/12/2007   Moderately Satisfactory                                     3.86
                                               Unsatisfactory
                                                 Moderately
 10    06/11/2008   Moderately Satisfactory                                     5.13
                                               Unsatisfactory
 11    11/18/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             5.81
 12    05/15/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             6.48
 13    07/07/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             6.70
 14    04/05/2010   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             8.42
 15    02/21/2011   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            13.38
 16    08/10/2011   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            18.54



H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 08/09/2007       Y       MU    MU            3.65
 01/27/2010       N       MS    MS            8.16   Extension of closing date
                                                     Reallocation of loan proceeds to
 04/07/2011               MS    MS           13.86   reassign funds from SHS to the
                                                     densification component.




                                          v
If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                      Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile




                                             vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
With an average nominal income of $1,460 (2010) equivalent to $4,820 at PPP1, and a poverty
rate of 38 percent, Bolivia is the most economically challenged country in South America.
Poverty is particularly severe in rural areas, where about 40 percent of the population lives in
communities with fewer than 2,000 inhabitants (as compared to 26 percent for the Latin
American region). Overall access to electricity services was estimated to be 77.1 percent in 2010,
with 90.4 percent in urban areas and 50.8 percent in rural areas. Although the levels are still low,
they have improved significantly since 2001 when overall access was estimated to be 64 percent
and 24.5 percent in rural areas.

The IDTR (Infraestructura Descentralizada para la Transformación Rural) project was
conceived as an intervention that would improve rural infrastructure and thereby improve rural
incomes. Bolivia has a population density of only 9 inhabitants per square km overall and, given
its particularly rugged terrain, infrastructure costs are especially high. The provision of rural
infrastructure is further complicated by two additional factors. First, the urban population and
economic activity are concentrated along the corridor connecting the three largest cities (La Paz-
Cochabamba-Santa Cruz), which makes it economically viable to provide high-quality
infrastructure in that corridor. On the other hand, reaching peripheral areas is difficult and
expensive. Second, the difficult mountainous terrain of the Altiplano (high plateau) and valley
zones allows for low-cost hydro-electricity generation, but also increases infrastructure
construction and operational costs; frequent floods and landslides exacerbate the problem.

Although the electricity sector was reformed in the 1990s, its transformation had no direct effect
on rural users. The capitalization program was designed for large systems typically serving urban
areas; no regulatory framework was established for rural areas, and neither were
expansion/service obligations. However, the Government set up a national rural electrification
program (PRONER) which established guidelines for rural electrification projects, with private
sector participation and under competitive conditions (e.g. by awarding contracts based on the
least required subsidy criterion). It also entrusted the responsibility for rural electrification to
municipalities and departments and allocated significant resources to these local governments for
this purpose. The efficiency regarding the use of the latter funds was in doubt given the lack of
rules for cost minimization and sustainability. Nonetheless, rural electrification increased from 16
percent in 1997 to 24.5 percent in 2001 and 50.8 percent in 2010.

The telecommunications sector was also capitalized in the 1990s, and more explicit consideration
was given to service in rural areas. The concession contracts awarded to the national long
distance carrier and to three local service cooperatives incorporated rural service obligations, such
as the installation and operation of public telephones in all conurbations between 350 and 10,000
people that fell within their service areas. In 2001 the Government established the National Rural
Telecommunications Program (PRONTER) to cover both basic telephony and more advanced
ICT services. Its main obstacle was lack of financing, despite the Government’s failed attempt to
pass legislation to raise funds through a levy on the gross revenues of the telecommunications
sector.

The Government launched a new program for the electricity sector in 2002 (Plan Bolivia de
Electrificación Rural—PLABER) with the purpose of incorporating lessons learned under

1
    The World Bank, 2010 Little Data Book



                                                 1
PRONER and correcting some of its implementation weaknesses. PLABER included ensuring
sustainability, minimum eligibility criteria for the projects, a menu of technological options,
competitive and transparent subsidy allocations, user co-financing, private sector participation,
and the promotion of productive uses.

The IDTR project was designed in 2003 during the second Sánchez de Lozada administration,
after a decade of strong economic growth which saw the reform of the power and
telecommunications sectors. When designed, the IDTR project was consistent with the Bank’s
working strategy/CAS for Bolivia. The importance of rural infrastructure to Bolivian
development was recognized in the 1998 CAS, the subsequent PRSP, and the CAS Progress
Report of 2001. The 1998 CAS was based on the three pillars of Opportunity, Equity, and
Institutions; the CAS Progress Report, based on the PRSP, identified four strategic components:
(a) expansion of income and employment opportunities, (b) capabilities building through
improvements in primary education, preventive health care, and improved access to adequate
housing, (c) increased security and protection for the poor, and (d) promotion of integration and
social participation.

Providing support for the PLABER electrification initiative and for the PRONTER rural
telecommunications program was a good fit to the CAS, PRSP, and CAS Progress Report
recommendations by (a) providing access to productivity-enhancing electricity and ICT services,
(b) supporting improvements in education by providing these services for rural schools, (c)
improving security through street lighting and communication facilities, and (d) by supporting
integration through better lighting and communications facilities which provide access to the
media.

Given the project’s innovative design, which included the delivery of electricity and ICT services
through Output Based Aid (OBA), it was originally designed as an Adaptable Program Credit
with three phases, covering the periods 2003–2007 (APL 1), 2008–2010 (APL 2), and 2011–2013
(APL 3).
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project development objective was to expand and improve delivery of electricity and ICT
services through private-sector led mechanisms as a catalyst for the development of rural areas in
Bolivia.
The performance indicators in the Credit Agreement included: (1) Number of equivalent
Photovoltaic (PV) Solar Home Systems (SHS) installed; (2) Number of Service Management
Contracts for PV SHS; (3) Number of new users connected under grid densification; (4) Number
of new cellular phone connections in rural areas; (5) Rural population covered by new cellular
phone services; (6) Number of new productive users of electricity under the PV SHS and
Productive Uses components; (7) Tons of carbon dioxide abated; and (8) Country Gateway fully
operational by end of project.
The PAD included four additional policy reform indicators: (1) adoption and implementation of a
new regulatory framework for rural electrification, establishing adequate and affordable
regulatory and technical standards for rural areas, and facilitating private investment in rural
electrification; (2) Establishment of a financing mechanism for sustainable rural electricity
coverage expansion, with adequate sources of funding and transparent rules for efficient, effective
and competitive use of public resources for rural electrification investment with private sector
participation; (3) Operationalization of a rural telecommunication fund, with transparent and
efficient rules for subsidy allocation, and identification of sustainable funding to implement the



                                                2
rural ICT strategy; and (4) enactment of a new regulation for the telecommunication sector, with
adequate regulatory and technical standards to facilitate private telecom investment in rural areas.
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The project ran into implementation problems with the ICT component, which led to a first level
restructuring in 2007. The revised PDO was: “The project development objective is to expand
and improve delivery of electricity through private-sector led mechanisms as a catalyst for the
development of rural areas in Bolivia”. The ICT components were dropped and the key indicators
became: 1) Number of equivalent Photovoltaic (PV) Solar Home Systems (SHS) installed; (2)
Number of Service Management Contracts for PV SHS; (3) Number of new users connected
under grid densification; (4) Number of new productive users of electricity under the PV SHS and
Productive Uses components; (5) Tons of carbon dioxide abated; and (6) Country Gateway fully
operational by end of project. The two first policy reform indicators were retained (regulatory
framework and establishment of a financing mechanism); the ICT-related policy indicators were
dropped. A second-level restructuring took place in 2011 with the purpose of reallocating funds
among project categories.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main direct beneficiaries and target population of the APL 1 project identified at preparation
consisted of over 15,000 rural low-income households to receive electricity service, and over
25,000 new cell phone users in rural towns, in addition to farmers, small businesses, schools,
clinics, and community centers in the project areas. The intention was to ultimately benefit the
population in the rest of the country through the incorporation of lessons learned and replication
in APL 2 and APL 3. Indigenous communities were also expected to be important beneficiaries of
the project. Almost 80 percent of the population in the project areas identified themselves as
indigenous in the 2001 census. Given that the project originally required a significant outlay of
resources by beneficiaries, it was oriented towards the better off, but still poor, rural population,
rather than users in the extreme poverty stratum.

When the project was formally restructured in 2007 the target beneficiaries of the project became
10,000 equivalent Solar Home Systems (SHS) to benefit rural households, together with 15,000
customers to be connected through grid densification. The project was targeted to provide
electricity to a total of 25,000 poor households benefiting around 125,000 people. In addition,
SHS in schools and clinics were expected to benefit 30,000 people, resulting in a total of 155,000
beneficiaries.
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Project components, as classified in the original Credit Agreement, included:
Part A: National Strategies for Rural Electrification and ICT. The component would assist
the Vice Ministries of Energy and Communications in developing effective strategies to improve
and accelerate electricity and ICT coverage expansion in rural areas.
Part B: Rural Coverage Expansion. The component would support (1) Solar photovoltaic
market development for a target of 15,000–20,000 users, (2) Grid densification strategy and
funding of a pilot project to reduce the cost of new connections, (3) financing, together with the
Government and the private sector, of around 25,000 new cellular lines to benefit a population of
about 1 million, and (4) other energy and ICT small interventions, such as pico-hydro stations and
limited financing for the expansion of coverage of TV and local radio stations.
Part C: Productive and Social Uses. The component would identify, develop, facilitate and
promote productive and social uses of the installed infrastructure: (1) Productive and Social Uses



                                                 3
of Solar Energy, oriented towards promoting non-obvious uses and those that require lesser
known types of equipment, as well as adaptation of existing processes, (2) Productive and Social
use of ICTs (together with Development Gateway) including the establishment of an internet
platform, local content development, a community radio program, and a capacity building
program.
Part D: Promotion, Communication and Capacity-Building. This component was designed
to complement the others by providing a common platform for community consultations,
promotion campaigns and training of users in using the new infrastructure efficiently and
productively.
Part E: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). In addition to
management, this component was expected to focus on M&E by developing indicators and
following their evolution throughout project execution.
1.6 Revised Components
The project was restructured in 2007: Part B.3 (telephony) was in effect eliminated by assigning it
a zero budget; Part B.2 (grid densification and pilot project) was assigned the bulk of the budget
that had been cancelled for Part B.3. A final reallocation of loan proceeds was formally done in
2011.
1.7 Other significant changes

The original closing date of the project was December 31, 2007. In October, 2007, the project
was restructured to (a) eliminate the Telephone Coverage Expansion subcomponent, (b) reassign
funds to the Grid Densification sub-component and other components, and (c) reduce the
telecommunications technical assistance activities. The restructuring extended the closing date by
26 months, to June 30, 2009. The Grid Densification component in B.2 was redefined and
expanded to use the additional allocation made for densification under the restructuring.

A second extension was agreed, with a closing date of November 27, 2009 and an interim two
month extension was agreed through January 27, 2010.

A third extension was requested and agreed for an additional 17 months, leading to a final closing
date of May 27, 2011 and a final reallocation of the proceeds of the credit. In the final
restructuring there was also a change in the indicators regarding the technologies to be used in the
project, but the total number of beneficiaries, 25,000, remained unchanged.

The original and restructured funding allocations are reflected in the following table:




                                    Funding Allocations (SDR)
                    Category                         Original        Restructured            Final
                                                                       (2007)               (2011)
(1) Works                                               750,000             100,000          121,900
(2) Goods and Non-consultant Services                   400,000           1,000,000        1,117,800
(3) Expenditures under service management             8,900,000          10,200,000       11,117,700


                                                 4
contracts (Part B)
    Part B1 (Photovoltaic systems)                     5,900,000            6,800,000      4,331,900
    Part B2 (Grid Densification)                               0            3,400,000      6,785,800
    Part B3 (cellular phone expansion)                 3,000,000                    0              0
(4) Consultant Services                                2,400,000            2,450,000      1,935,800
(5) Operating Costs                                      300,000              400,000        502,900
(6) Refunding of Project Preparation Advance           1,450,000              170,800        170,900
(7) Unallocated                                          800,000              379,200              0
(8) Grants to Beneficiaries (new)                              0              300,000         33,000
Total                                                 15,000,000           15,000,000     15,000,000


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Although at the time of project preparation the Bank had accumulated considerable experience in
the implementation of both rural electrification and ICT projects involving private-sector
participation, both in LAC and worldwide, the project assessment recognized that the project in
Bolivia in general, and intervention in rural areas in particular, could confront unforeseeable
obstacles. For example, economic and/or social instability were rated as high risk at appraisal, as
well as political interference which could affect project implementation (modest risk), and the
withdrawal of support for regulatory reforms and private sector participation (substantial risk).
All three of these risks, which were correctly diagnosed at appraisal, materialized albeit with little
chances of mitigation. The uncertainties associated with the project were one of the reasons for
choosing the APL instrument, which would allow (a) learning and adapting from previous phases,
and (b) eventually cancelling future phases of the project without compromising as many
resources.
The project was designed to minimize the risk of loss of resources by adopting an Output-Based
Approach (OBA) through which payments to private or public operators are made against
functioning services. At the time of project preparation this approach had been tested elsewhere
in different Bank projects and it was consequently adopted for the project in question.
Two major approaches had been tested elsewhere in connection with the provision of SHS: the
fee for service approach, in which the operator owns the assets under a concession-type
arrangement, and the dealer approach whereby the operator competes to sell the systems to the
customer. The Bolivia IDTR project adopted a new SHS business model that sought to combine
the strengths of the two approaches described before: Under this hybrid approach, known as
Medium Term Service Contracts, subsidies are provided in return for obligations extending over a
number of years to provide service and spare parts.
2.2 Implementation
In order to understand the evolution of the project and its subsequent delays, it is important to
recall the political developments after 2003. The credit was approved by the Board, as well as the
Bolivian Congress in June 2003, under the Sánchez de Losada government; in October 2003 due
to social unrest, the President resigned and Carlos Mesa, the vice-president, took over. The Mesa
government lasted until June 2005 when the President resigned due to public outcry over natural
gas policy as well as a federalist movement in the hydrocarbon-rich eastern provinces. Mesa was
replaced by the head of the Supreme Court, Eduardo Rodríguez, as interim president until
elections could be held in August. An act of Congress postponed them until December 2005, at
which time Evo Morales won the election with an absolute majority. The new Government was
inaugurated in January 2006, and has lasted until project closure in 2011. As a result of these


                                                  5
changes in power, the project was effectively implemented under four different governments all
of which rotated or replaced project staff, particularly the project directors and the fiduciary staff;
nevertheless, a core of qualified technical personnel was kept throughout the project.

Changes in government and in authorities also implied rotations at the Ministerial level,
especially for staff under the Legal and the Administrative Directions in the Ministry of
Hydrocarbons and Energy. These two areas had a close interaction with the PCU as they were
involved in approving contracts. Therefore, these changes in staff affected the relationship with
the PCU and the processing of the project contracts. New authorities needed to be briefed over
and over about the nature of the project and the particular type of procedures (such as World
Bank Procurement Guidelines) that were applied for contracting, which led to delays in
implementation.

In addition to the delays introduced by changes in the Government, the project was not included
in the National Budget in 2004, and as a result it was in effect paralyzed during its first year of
implementation, with little chance from the start to achieve the initial closing date of December,
2007.

The obstacles encountered by the telecommunications component are a good example of how
political risks materialized. The component was expected to be implemented by launching a
bidding process for putting in place the required installations in selected rural areas. A first
bidding round was unsuccessful and a second one was initiated in 2005 but it was not finalized
before the change in Government in January 2006. The new Government examined the bids and
concluded they were not responsive in the sense that they did not conform to the minimum
requirements of the intended project; the Bank agreed with this conclusion. The Bank and the
Government agreed that the project would be restructured to reflect the impossibility of re-
bidding and implementing the telecommunications component before the December, 2007
closing date. In fact, the Government eventually awarded the contract to one of the bidders, the
local company (ENTEL) but without using IDA funding. Not much later, ENTEL was
nationalized and the telecommunications regulator was disbanded.

With respect to the ICT components of the project, the country development gateway was duly
completed in 2007 and is in operation (2011).

The SHS subcomponent encountered obstacles of a different nature. The component was
supported by the Government and bidding for PV installations in rural areas was successful: four
qualified bids were received (there were eleven pre-qualified companies) covering 14 geographic
areas, and two contracts were awarded; one of them, awarded to a Spanish company, covered ten
areas, and the other, awarded to a consortium led by a Bolivian NGO, covered the rest. The
foreign company ran into implementation issues, particularly regarding marketing and
communication, i.e. lack of familiarity with the local context and therefore engaging with
potential customers effectively. Ultimately, for reasons not related to the project in Bolivia, the
foreign company went into bankruptcy after having installed 3,695 systems. On the other hand,
the consortium implemented its 4 contracts in a very satisfactory manner. Thus, various changes
were made to the local company’s contracts which enabled them to expand the number of
systems sold and eventually reach the 10,000 systems target. The project is still trying to formally
close the contract with the foreign company. In addition, some obstacles were faced by the
companies when trying to identify the demand, due to the amount of money (nearly US$ 400)
beneficiaries were supposed to pay upfront in order to get the equipment. To solve this issue,
local level governments intervened during project implementation; in some specific areas, the
gobernaciones subsidized part of the users’ upfront payment.


                                                  6
The grid densification subcomponent was the great beneficiary of the project restructuring
through the allocation of most of the resources formerly intended to cellular coverage. With the
support of the distribution companies, the project was able to disburse most of its allocation
through this component.

It is worthwhile mentioning an innovative approach adopted by the Project to attract users to the
SHS component: improved cookstoves, were integrated into the project as a bonus provided to
households which purchased a SHS, therefore providing additional rewards in the way of health
and gender benefits. This required development of a procurement model based on dissemination
activities of the German cooperation organization GIZ, and developed in close collaboration with
GIZ.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E was recognized early in the project as a key factor in following performance. A technical
monitoring office was organized (Oficina Técnica de Monitoreo—OTM) with the purpose of
overseeing (a) contracts between users and contractors, (b) contracts among contractors and the
Ministry of Hydrocarbons and Energy (MHE), and (c) performance indicators and risks. In
particular, with respect to the Output Based Aid (OBA) approach, OTM verified the outputs in
order to pay for the subsidies, which were only tendered against households with electricity
service.
The OTM was organized with a unit director, a PV/SHS specialist, a grid densification specialist,
and an information and geopositioning specialist; this staff was supported by eight field
supervisors. The OTM was effective in channeling user complaints, providing mediation services
in the case of conflicts and controlling quality, both at the installation and customer service
levels. It also oversaw quality and contractor performance. The OTM was responsible for
collecting project information, and controlling monitoring parameters. The OTM ensured that the
Project was present and visible in the field, ensuring channels of communication with the users,
and helping to strengthen communication with local officials. One of the substantial benefits
created by the Project was the establishment of this office, which continues to operate.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Safeguards. SHS have a minimal environmental impact; grid densification
schemes may involve interventions on public land and may be more invasive, but they are in
general easily managed risks. The Project triggered OP 4.01 and was categorized B for
environmental impact, therefore a partial Environmental Assessment (EA) was required before
Appraisal. The EA included an Environmental Management Framework (EMF), to secure
compliance with the Bolivian legal framework and the Bank’s safeguard policies. The main
requirement under the EMF was the preparation of environmental management plans (EMPs) for
each electricity and telecommunications sub-project.

The EMF was complemented with specific guidelines for each step of implementation of the rural
electrification sub-projects, including: i) selection of sites; ii) procedures for the construction
stage; iii) procedures for the operations stage, and; iv) consultation with stakeholders.

The EMPs were an inherent part of the preparation of each transaction, and its conclusions and
recommendations were integrated into the contracts with service providers that were responsible
to install, operate and maintain the electricity systems. The EMPs included specific procedures
and actions to be developed by the service providers in order to prevent and mitigate the


                                                7
identified environmental impacts and comprised programs for the management of solid wastes
and residual water and control of emissions and noise. Although OPN 11.03 (Cultural Property)
was not triggered, the EMP also included procedures for the management of archeological and
cultural resources.

The assessment of the Project’s compliance with OP 4.01 is summarized as follows:
    •   The electric densification component demanded most of the monitoring effort for
        compliance with OP 4.01. The first bidding package was prepared in April of 2008
        without including the environmental requirements indicated in the EMF, however most of
        the electric companies accepted the inclusion of the management plan with the associated
        costs in the contracts. At that stage, the Project was not staffed with an environmental
        safeguards specialist; therefore, these projects were subject to a safeguard compliance
        assessment only at the operations stage.
    •   The Bank’s safeguards specialist was incorporated to the project team in January of 2010.
        The EMF guidelines were systematized and specific EMP compliance indicators were
        developed to improve the monitoring procedures. The ex-post assessment of the 2008
        densification projects concluded that the monitoring reports did not contain all the data
        required under the EMPs; however, all the companies provided the missing information
        as required by the Project. The analyses of the monitoring reports allowed determining
        that the impacts were minor and have been adequately mitigated. The second bidding
        phase included the environmental procedures at all stages and compliance and monitoring
        of the management plans took place according to the EMF.

Social Safeguards. The Project triggered OP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples and OP 4.12 on
Involuntary Resettlement. An Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework and a Resettlement Policy
Framework were prepared. The Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework defined procedures and
principles to ensure a process of free, prior, and informed consultation with the affected
Indigenous Peoples' communities. The Resettlement Policy Framework defined procedures to
avoid resettlement and to develop plans for the establishment of easements for distribution lines.
During project supervision the Bank did not find evidence of any serious non-compliance with
OP 4.10 or OP 4.12. The main issue recorded in Aide Memoires of supervision visits is the lack
of adequate documentation on (i) the consultations carried out prior to the implementation of
some of the grid densification subprojects; and (ii) the implementation of Indigenous Peoples
Plans. This documentation was reconstructed after the fact and training activities were conducted
to improve the documentation in these areas.
Fiduciary
    a) Financial Management. The operation of financial management arrangements was
       considerably affected by adjustments and internal reorganization processes within the
       implementing entities; as well as high staff rotation not only in the Project Coordinating
       Unit, but also in the Ministry's Administrative and Finance Unit. Lack of experienced and
       qualified staff for prolonged periods resulted in outdated and inaccurate accounting
       records thereby affecting the quality of financial information and timely compliance with
       audit requirements. Although during the last years a more stable institutional environment
       was in place, the dynamics between the PCU and Ministry of Hydrocarbon and Energy
       were still difficult resulting in bureaucratic and cumbersome procedures. Project
       performance, as it relates to Financial Management, significantly improved towards the
       end, thus permitting an orderly project closing.




                                                8
    b) Procurement. The Project Coordination Unit was responsible for the procurement
       activities and the contracting process; responsibilities were handled in a satisfactory
       manner. The IDTR’s technical Unit was in charge of defining technical specifications,
       preparing terms of reference and contract contents, evaluating offers and bid proposals
       and managing each signed contract. Given the specificity of the procurement methods
       applied by the Project Unit, difficulties were faced when interacting with the Ministry
       authorities, not familiarized with World Bank Procurement Guidelines. Therefore, the
       signing of contracts was cumbersome. The performance is moderately satisfactory.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Equipment installed under the PV/SHS component has a guarantee of two years backed by
warranty policies; this includes replacement of defective equipment. Maintenance of equipment is
guaranteed for a period of four years after installation. In the case of the NGO contractor, its
service contract extends until 2015. In the case of the foreign company, contractual guarantees
were called for non-performance and the resources have been destined to contract maintenance
with local entrepreneurs; a first bidding round was unsuccessful and a second round is underway,
to be financed by Government resources. Regarding the payment of contractors during the
operational phase, as this was not possible after the project closed, the contracts were amended in
order to allow the maintenance guarantees mentioned above to be paid during the life of the
project. No payments following project closure are expected to take place. Only a contractors’
guarantee is being held by the Bolivian authorities to assure contract compliance with
maintenance requirements.
In the case of the grid densification project, new users have been included into the mainstream of
regulated distribution utility clients and benefit from the maintenance and service quality
available to their customers.
Reforms instituted under the project materialized under Supreme Decree 28567 which approved
the rules and regulations for Rural Electrification, together with Bolivian norms for PV
installations. Financing mechanisms for rural electrification materialized under Supreme Decree
29365 which approved the “Electricity for Dignified Living” program. These statutes have not
been challenged and are expected to continue to provide an adequate framework for rural
electrification.
The project itself was a first phase of a three-phase APL. Triggers for moving to the second APL
phase were included in the PAD. They comprised:
Policy triggers:
    1. Adoption and implementation of a new regulatory framework for rural electrification
        (RE), establishing adequate and affordable regulatory and technical standards for rural
        areas, and facilitating private investment in rural electrification;
    2. Establishment of a financing mechanism for sustainable rural electricity coverage
        expansion, with adequate sources of funding and transparent rules for efficient, effective
        and competitive use of public resources for rural electrification investment with private-
        sector participation;
    3. Operationalization of a rural telecommunication fund, with transparent and efficient rules
        for subsidy allocation, and identification of sustainable funding to implement the rural
        ICT strategy; (eliminated in the 2007 project restructuring) and
    4. Enactment of a new regulation for the telecommunication sector, with adequate
        regulatory and technical standards to facilitate private telecom investment in rural areas
        (eliminated in the 2007 project restructuring).
Investment triggers


                                                9
    1. At least 15,000 equivalent SHS installed;
    2. Minimum of 25,000 new cellular phones users in 100 communities; (eliminated in the
       2007 project restructuring) and
    3. Fully operational Internet-based Country Gateway portal.
The triggers related to cellular services and the telecom fund no longer apply after project
restructuring in 2007. The wording of the second Policy trigger also changed with the
restructuring. The new text reads as follows: “Establishment of a financing mechanism for
sustainable rural electricity coverage expansion, with transparent rules for efficient, effective and
competitive use of public resources for rural electrification investment with private sector
participation.”


The triggers associated with the regulatory framework, the mechanism for extending rural
electricity coverage, the installation of SHS and the Internet portal were achieved under the
restructured goals. However, the investment achievements were accomplished during the later
months of project execution when a second phase of the APL could not be initiated. Nevertheless,
given the positive results of the first phase, a request from the GOB was received and a new
energy sector operation, mainly an IDTR follow-up project, is already under preparation. This
new operation would consist of a free-standing SIL rather than a second phase of the original
APL. In any case it should be emphasized that the triggers for a second phase were achieved
under the restructured scenario, albeit at a late stage in the project’s execution.
The following table summarizes the achievement of the triggers envisaged under the project’s
restructured design.

                   Triggers                                      Actions / Fulfillment
Adoption and implementation of a new               Fulfilled. The Government proclaimed the
regulatory framework for rural electrification     Rural Electrification Rule Book (Supreme
(RE), establishing adequate and affordable         Decree 28557 dated December 2005) and the
regulatory and technical standards for rural       Bolivian norms for PV installations.
areas, and facilitating private investment in
rural electrification;
Establishment of a financing mechanism for         Fulfilled. The Government proclaimed the
sustainable     rural     electricity coverage     “Electricity to live with dignity” program
expansion, with transparent rules for efficient,   (Supreme Decree 29365 dated July 2008)
effective and competitive use of public            which establishes a common fund for universal
resources for rural electrification investment     access, and a financing system involving the
with private sector participation.                 Government, Prefectures, Municipalities and
                                                   the private sector.
At least 15,000 of equivalent SHS installed;       94 percent fulfilled. 10,174 SHS systems were
                                                   installed with an average 50Wp, equal to
                                                   14,130 equivalent SHS systems (1 equivalent
                                                   system is 36Wp).




                                                 10
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project’s outcomes, which translate into improved living conditions for the targeted rural
population, continue to be relevant, particularly given current country priorities, where the
Government’s programs have emphasized better welfare for rural and particularly indigenous
people. There continues to be a large population which lacks electricity and the objectives of the
project are still relevant.

The project’s design, which was clearly oriented towards improving rural living conditions with
private sector participation proved to be successful by delivering subsidies for SHS and grid
densification; the latter, in particular, was enthusiastically embraced by many of the utilities in the
country.

Implementation of the project followed the original design for the electricity sector activities and
was successful in adapting to changing circumstances regarding the withdrawal of the foreign
company from SHS installations. While the telecommunications activities planned under the
project were cancelled, they were largely completed under contracts financed outside the Project.

The project was fully integrated with the Bank’s assistance strategy. In particular, the emphasis
on rural and indigenous populations provided by the project reflects the Interim Strategy Note
(2009) which led to a fast adaptation to the Morales Government’s priorities, as well as objectives
such as (i) identifying shared goals and priorities, (ii) working with the fragile capacity of
Government teams, (iii) continue the focus on shared priorities, (iv) to consider additional support
for government teams in the preparation and implementation of projects, (v) avoid the
fragmentation of projects and focus on a limited number of simple projects with clear objectives,
well defined, measurable and realistic time frames for implementation, and (vi) continue to work
to strengthen the long-term commitment of the World Bank in the country.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

As noted above, the restructured project development objective was to expand and improve
delivery of electricity through private-sector led mechanisms as a catalyst for the development of
rural areas in Bolivia. This was fully achieved through the support to institutional statutes which
provide a frame of reference for future rural electrification, and the outputs related to the actual
installation of over 10,000 SHS and the connection to the grid of over 20,000 customers, thereby
benefiting around 120,000 people. The outputs by component are shown in detail in Annex 2
together with the achievement of indicators.



3.3 Efficiency
The final estimates for the economic rates of return of the project are: 15 percent for SHS
component, 50 percent for first phase grid densification, 36 percent for second phase grid
densification. The SHS rate of return is lower than the estimate at the design stage (29 percent)
because a more conservative assumption was used regarding the project’s useful life (25 years in
the PAD, 15 years in Annex 3 of this ICR). In any case, these are very approximate figures given
the variability of the basic assumptions (e.g. the luminance of kerosene
lanterns/candles/flashlights as compared to those of solar-powered equipment and the consequent
willingness to pay). There was no similar evaluation at the design stage regarding grid extension,


                                                  11
which was only expected to be a pilot project. Regarding the financial evaluation, given that this
is a project based on providing subsidies, the financial cash flow should yield an IRR below
acceptable values. In particular, the financial analysis for SHS would only yield cash benefits
from replacing artisanal lighting, which does not capture the benefits of improved and additional
lighting; consequently, there was no financial assessment either at the design stage or at the ICR
level.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The overall rating reflects, on the positive side, the achievement of the PDO and the benefits for
the targeted rural population, and, on the negative side, the need to restructure the project to
reflect the unsuccessful ICT developments, as well as the delays incurred in its execution, which
took approximately double the time initially envisaged. Furthermore, the final implementation
accomplishments took place during an intense last-minute effort with little time for close M&E.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Through its design and execution, the project was successful in improving living conditions for a
large number of poor, rural households. The social impact associated with providing lighting to
schools and health centers is also worthwhile noting. It has had positive gender consequences
particularly through the improved cooking stoves, which reduce the burden on women regarding
woodfuel collection and time spent in food preparation due to more efficient combustion.
Reducing cooking fumes has important health consequences. Finally, the project interacted
strongly with local communities and communal organizations thereby developing a sense of
ownership among beneficiaries.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The support to the development of the rural electrification legal framework will have long term
consequences in providing the frame of reference for achieving the Government’s rural strategy.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Although not included in the project design, an opportune alliance with the German cooperation
organization GIZ allowed the installation of about 7600 improved cookstoves for SHS users,
thereby providing benefits in terms of health, gender, and deforestation by lowering time and
effort needed for woodfuel collection and reducing CO2 emissions. The project was also
instrumental in financing 14 solar refrigerators for vaccine preservation and public lighting
installations (1,274 lamps) benefitting around 8,800 households. Other project outcomes include
productive uses of SHS systems, including wool shearing equipment (240 users), poultry uses,
store lighting, and over 100 users utilizing PV systems for powering tools.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Overall Rating: Low. The improvements in living conditions for the beneficiaries of the project
are not expected to change. In the case of the institutional component, the legal conditions for
rural electrification have been set and they are not expected to change significantly in the medium
or long term. The SHS have led to a better quality life for the beneficiaries and they are unlikely
to revert to, for example, wick lamps or candles for lighting. The SHS systems require basic
maintenance and battery replacement, which should be affordable for the stratum of beneficiaries
which were targeted in the project. However, based on international experience, solar panels
could deteriorate or break after the guaranteed maintenance period, and replacing them could
entail a high cost to users; hence the risk could be assessed as moderate for this component;
nevertheless, better and less expensive solar technology (so-called pico PV systems) has been


                                                12
developed in the last few years, and users experiencing difficulties with their solar panels could
easily shift to this more affordable alternative. The grid densification customers will continue to
benefit from the regulated service, including maintenance, offered by the distribution companies,
with negligible risk to the development outcome. The Internet portal which was put in place
requires basic updating at only slight cost.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project was carefully prepared by taking into account the particular needs of the rural
population in Bolivia. The risk ratings were consistent with what actually transpired during
project execution. However, the project design was too complex to be achieved in a 5 year period.
In addition, the OBA contracts included an unrealistic 4-year post-installation maintenance
guarantee that could not be achieved during the project’s implementation. This led to the
amendment of the SHS contracts in 2010 to ensure adequate maintenance of the systems covered
during the project’s lifetime.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
During project execution the Bank maintained a constant presence with the project, with two or
more supervisions a year, and provided help to overcome the different difficulties encountered,
particularly the collapse of the foreign SHS contractor. However, the project team was not always
complete due to the rotation of specialist staff, and ultimately the success of the project became
dependent on the ability of the PCU director which, fortunately, managed to accomplish more
during the last 15 months of execution than during the previous periods.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank performed adequately at all stages of project execution and supported the PCU team
during the transitions from one government to another. It was responsive to project difficulties
and provided opportune and constructive advice to advance the project; the project was
redesigned (when it became apparent that the cellular phone component would not be executed)
in such a way that it could reach its development objectives. However, the failings noted above
regarding quality at entry and supervision warrant the overall rating.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The changes in Government undoubtedly impacted project performance, and generated a
generally unstable institutional environment; however, the successive governments always
provided support for the project and its development objectives. For example, between 2002 and
2005 the PLABER program was established. (Plan Bolivia de Electrificación Rural) and the
IDTR was conceived under that program. Latter on in 2008, the Electricity Program for Living
with Dignity (Programa de Electricidad para Vivir con Dignidad) was issued as the National
strategy to reach Universal Access by 2025. The IDTR was one of the program’s main
components.


                                                13
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Although the PCU experienced rotations mainly at the director level and fiduciary staff (FM and
procurement), it managed to maintain a core of qualified staff and to advance the project, and it
ultimately achieved the project’s goals as measured by performance indicators. The PCU learned
that the level of supervision needed for this type of projects is intense and should take place in the
field. All its supervision efforts were intensified during the last year of project execution. By the
end of the project, the PCU also gained knowledge of how to handle the relationship with the
different areas of the Ministry of Hydrocarbons and Energy involved in contract processing. The
interaction with them became more frequent and project procedures became substantially
streamlined.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
As noted, the borrower supported the project and its development objectives. However, the delays
in execution, such as not including it in the 2004 budget and frequent staff rotation, held up
benefits to the targeted population which could have been achieved earlier.
6. Lessons Learned

Simplicity of design is paramount to successful implementation of rural projects. Rural
projects should be carefully designed to minimize implementation difficulties. In this project,
adopting a multisectoral approach, depending on two different ministries, unduly complicated
project design (although at the time of preparation, multisectoral projects were being supported
by the Bank).
Projects requiring counterpart funds from beneficiaries should be carefully designed in
terms of the target population. The IDTR shows how requiring a significant payment from the
beneficiaries should be carefully evaluated when targeting recipients, which, in this case, were the
better off among the rural poor. Addressing this type of difficulty can be achieved by actively
seeking other sources of financing. In the IDTR case, the gobernaciones (local level jurisdictions)
were incorporated in the project as partial financiers of beneficiaries for the upfront payment of
SHSs. This new funding simplified the identification of the potential beneficiaries but also added
to the complexity because new players were involved in the project.

Procurement should be oriented towards reducing both cost and risk. During
implementation, consideration should be given to spreading the risk of possible failure when
several contractors are being envisaged, and procurement should be designed to allow for this
approach. In hindsight, the contracts for SHS would have been spread among a larger number of
contractors, thereby reducing the trauma induced by the failure of any single one. In fact, during
proposal evaluation, consideration should be given to assessing proposals in terms of realistic
proposals for implementation; in the case of the project, the foreign contractor’s proposal
included goals which were considered too ambitious but could not be rejected when evaluating
bids. In this sense, local knowledge should be a key factor in the evaluation criteria for proposals
for this type of projects.

Monitoring is essential to the implementation of complex projects with multiple
beneficiaries such as the IDTR. M&E is essential to rural oriented projects in order to track



                                                 14
contractor performance and to assure that the benefits reach the target population. In the case of
the project in question, the M&E office organized under the PCU (i.e. the OTM) is a good
example of project supervision which allowed it to attain its development objective. It performed
successfully by following basic good management principles, frequent and periodical visits to the
project and its beneficiaries, communication with SHS service providers, and coordination with
Distribution companies for grid densification. It is a good example of how to monitor rural
electrification projects with substantial field work.

The OBA approach ensures that benefits are delivered. OBA approaches are successful, as in
the project in question; by assuring that subsidies are only paid against actual results, i.e.
satisfactory electricity provision to users. The OBA approach of the project in conjunction with
the hybrid model for delivering SHS through the Medium Term Service contracts constitutes a
good example of an electrification strategy which maximizes benefits for a given subsidy and can
be applied elsewhere. This approach should, however, be qualified given that it targets the better
off population among the poor; if a program were to target the poorest strata, a different strategy
would be required.

The official institutional counterpart of the Bank should participate actively in project
implementation. When designing the project and the operations manual in particular,
consideration should be given to the possible bureaucratic obstacles which may be encountered,
such as review by Government agencies (e.g. the Ministry involved) to detect sources of delay
which can be addressed at the outset of the project. In a context of frequent changes in authorities,
both at the PCU and the Ministry level, a standalone PCU which must apply specific procedures
approved under the loan is often required to explain its role and justify its practices to the
different, new, authorities. Given its semi- independence, and the special nature of its procedures,
there is always a degree of distrust from new government authorities, which leads to project
delay. In order to minimize this kind of situations, it would be desirable to involve the Bank’s
institutional counterpart (e.g. Ministry of Finance or the like) from the outset, so that it can take a
lead role in explaining the particularities of Bank operations to the line authorities, thereby
ensuring continuity and avoiding delays in implementation.

Maintaining flexibility during project execution is an important lesson, as exemplified by the
project’s cooperation with other donors with similar interests; implementing a parallel activity to
the GIZ cookstove initiative was an incentive to users for adopting SHS, particularly once the
first stoves were installed and demonstrated within a community.

Cooperation with other Government and local institutions is an important element for
project success in rural initiatives. In the case of the project, provincial governments and
municipalities were successfully involved to reach the target population. Again, the main lesson
is to improve as much as possible on local knowledge and to support contractors for the project to
be successful.

Long term results evaluation requires M&E beyond project closure. Given the time elapsed
between the installations of the SHS and the construction of the grid extension, and the
preparation of this ICR, it is not yet possible to extract lessons as regards investments’
sustainability. Most SHS original batteries are still functioning and the PCU has no information
of installed systems out of order. As indicated in section 4 of this document, and as discussed
with some beneficiaries during field visits, they were totally aware of the need of replacing the
battery and paying for it, and it is unlikely to expect SHS users to revert to wick lamps or candles
for lighting. As for the densification users, if the beneficiaries do not have any affordability
problem, no issues should take place. It is clear then that, in order to better assess and evaluate the


                                                  15
results of rural electrification projects, more time is needed. This type of projects generates
changes in living conditions that affect the culture of beneficiaries that are located in very isolated
areas with accessibility issues. An in-depth evaluation of the project’s impact requires time for
users to get used to new technology and time and resources to implement statistically relevant
surveys or field visits to these isolated areas.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The main suggestions include (a) having a local Bank liaison within the country, and (b) counting
on permanent legal support for drafting contracts. Regarding the latter, contracts are designed by
legal staff at the Ministry, who are not specialists in the type of project and have to contend with
myriad other contracts, and become an important source of delays. The suggestion is reasonable
as it would have enabled the PCU to provide the initial drafts to the Ministry and to adjust the
contracts to project requirements.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                  16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
    (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                        Original          Final (2011)
Component                                              Disbursements    Percentage
                      Allocation          Reallocation
1.National
Strategies for RE           3.40               0.80              0.76        95
and ICT
2.1 Solar PV
Installation and
                          13.93                8.75              7.29        83
Market
Development
2.2 Grid
                            2.47            10.59               10.29        97
Densification
2.3 Cell Phone
Coverage                    8.20               0.0               0.0          0
Expansion
2.4 Other
investments in
                            0.65               0.60              0.39        65
Rural Energy and
ICT
3. Productive and
                            2.59               0.30              0.30       100
Social Uses
4. Promotion and
                            2.27               0.10              0.10       100
Training
5. Management
                            3.52               2.00              2.05       103
and M&E
6. Unallocated              1.77               0.0               0.0          0
   Total Baseline
                          38.80             23.14               21.18        92
              Cost
Physical
Contingencies               0.00
Price
Contingencies               0.00
    Total Project
                            0.00            23.14               21.18        92
            Costs
Front-end fee
                            0.00               0.27              0.27       100
PPF
Front-end fee
                            0.00
IBRD
 Total Financing
                            0.00            23.14               21.18        92
        Required




                                          17
(b) Financing

                                          Appraisal            Actual/Late Percentage
                               Type of
                                           Estimate Restructur st Estimate     of
       Source of Funds        Cofinancin
                                            (USD ed Estimate (USD          Restructur
                                  g
                                           millions)             millions)     ed
 Borrower                                2.40        0.6       0.4         67
 International Development
                                        20.00      23.7        21.3       90
Association (IDA)
 Nordic Development Fund
                                        6.00       0.00        0.00       .00
(NDF)
 Local Sources of Borrowing
                                        10.40                             .00
Country
PHRD Project Preparation                0.70       0.70        0.70       100
 Total                                  39.50      25.0        22.4       90




                                         18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                   Restructured                                Percent
    Component           Original Output                                     Actual
                                                       Output                                completion
1. National            Adopt and               Unchanged for rural     Achieved for        100%
Strategies for Rural   implement a             electrification. ICT    electrification
Electrification and    regulatory              element dropped         through
ICT                    framework for rural                             promulgation of
                       electrification.                                Supreme Decree
                       National strategy for                           28567 and
                       rural                                           Bolivian norms
                       telecommunications                              for SHS, together
                                                                       with Supreme
                                                                       Decree 29365 for
                                                                       financing
                                                                       mechanisms
2.1 Solar PV           Provide SHS to          Target reset to         SHS for 10,174      100%
System Installation    15,000-20,000 new       10,000 new rural        households
and Market             rural households        households              installed
Development
                       Six contracts for       Unchanged               Four contracts in   67%
                       SHS services                                    place, ten
                                                                       contracts
                                                                       rescinded due to
                                                                       bankruptcy of
                                                                       contractor
2.2 Grid               Pilot project with a    15,000 households       20,073 users        134%
densification          minimum of 300          connected to the grid   connected
                       users
2.3 Telephone          25,000 new cellular     Dropped                 Executed by the     N.A.
coverage expansion     users                                           Government
                                                                       through ENTEL

                       Internet-based          Unchanged
                       Country Gateway                                 Achieved            100%
                       portal
3. Productive and      Facilitate productive   Unchanged               240 users of PV     100%
Social Uses            and social uses of                              systems for wool
                       electricity                                     shearing

                                                                       14 users of PV
                                                                       systems for
                                                                       poultry industry

                                                                       2 users of PV
                                                                       systems for store
                                                                       lighting

                                                                       Over 100 PV
                                                                       users for
                                                                       powering machine
                                                                       tools




                                                    19
                                              Restructured                           Percent
   Component         Original Output                              Actual
                                                 Output                            completion
4. Promotion,       Targeted               ICT activities    Community
Communication and   communication,         dropped           workshops and
Capacity Building   information and                          training for
                    education programs                       beneficiaries on     Completed
                    for small rural                          the care and
                    entrepreneurs and                        maintenance of
                    communities                              equipment and
                    developed and                            use of improved
                    implemented                              cookstoves
                    through a mix of                         implemented
                    ICT tools
5. Project          M&E activities in      Unchanged         M&E office           100%
Management, M&E     process                                  organized

                    Yearly, Mid-term                         Periodical reports   100%
                    and final evaluation                     issued on project
                    of key performance                       progress
                    indicators and
                    project development
                    impact

Other project outputs not contemplated in the initial design include 7,649 improved
stoves at a cost of $288,393, 14 solar refrigerators for vaccine preservation at a cost of
$103,000 in the Department of Pando, and public lighting, which encompassed the
installation of 1,274 lamps (70W and 250W), in the municipalities of El Alto, Pucarani,
and La Paz, benefitting 8,800 households.




                                               20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

    1. Evaluation of SHS.
SHS have two types of benefits: on one hand, they substitute the expense associated with
traditional lighting devices, such as kerosene lamps, candles, and flashlights by solar panels
whose running costs are practically negligible (replacement parts and replacement batteries are
considered as maintenance costs and will be taken into account in the analysis). In addition to the
savings over traditional lighting devices, PV systems provide much more light, and therefore they
bring additional welfare benefits to the beneficiaries.

The situation is explained in the following figure which schematically represents the demand for
lighting:




                                              Figure 1

When using traditional lighting, users consume QK at price PK and the value of saved traditional
energy resources is given by areas B+D. Once the consumer adopts a PV system, demand
increases to QPV at price PPV, and the additional benefits associated with the extra lighting are
given by areas C+E. A straight line approximation to the demand curve was used given the lack
of quantifiable information regarding consumers’ preferences.

The analysis will consider the case of a single PV customer with the following characteristics:

Panel size: 55W
Investment:
        Cost of PV system to user: $390
        Subsidy provided by IDTR project: $580
        Investment cost: $970
Periodical operations and maintenance costs:
        Maintenance: $5/year
        Battery replacement: $60

QK: 92 klm2-hour per year
QPV: 560 klm-hour per year
PK: approximately $0.50 per klm-hour
PPV: $0.0 per klm-hour (i.e. running costs are only fixed maintenance costs)


2
    klm = kilolumen


                                                21
This yields the following benefits

Replacement of traditional lighting: Areas B+D = QK(PK-PPV) + QKPPV = $46 which would
approximately represent the expense of purchasing kerosene, wicks, candles, etc over a year. This
is probably a conservative estimate.

Benefits of additional lighting provided by a solar panel:
                     Areas C+E = (PK-PPV)(QPV-QK)/2 + PPV(QPV-QK)= $117

Together with the maintenance and operations costs of the solar panel and its annex equipment,
this yields the following cash flow over 15 years, a conservative life estimate.

                           Table 1: Flow of Benefits for a SHS beneficiary (US$)
                                                               Avoided        Extra
              Capital                              Total       Lighting      Lighting     Total     Benefit
  Year         Cost     Battery       O&M           Cost        Costs        Benefit     Benefits    Flow
          1       970                       5           975           46           117       163        -812
          2                                 5              5          46           117       163         158
          3                                 5              5          46           117       163         158
          4                   60            5            65           46           117       163          98
          5                                 5              5          46           117       163         158
          6                                 5              5          46           117       163         158
          7                                 5              5          46           117       163         158
          8                   60            5            65           46           117       163          98
          9                                 5              5          46           117       163         158
         10                                 5              5          46           117       163         158
         11                                 5              5          46           117       163         158
         12                   60            5            65           46           117       163          98
         13                                 5              5          46           117       163         158
         14                                 5              5          46           117       163         158
         15                                 5              5          46           117       163         158
                                                                                                        15%

The cash flow yields a conservative estimate IERR of 15% for the PV system.

    2. Evaluation of grid densification.
A similar analysis applies to this component as shown in Figure 2. New users replace kerosene
lamps or alternative forms of lighting by electricity and start to consume considerably more (QE)
given the lower price. PE is the electricity tariff.




                                                      22
                                               Figure 2

The assumptions behind the analysis are:
QK = equivalent consumption of electricity, assumed to be 60kWh per year;
QE = lower strata consumption of connected households, around 600kWh per year;
PK = equivalent price of electricity, assuming an expenditure of 60$ per year on kerosene, which
yields an equivalent price of $1 per kWh
PE = electricity tariff for residential households, which averages US¢6.1/kWh3.

Although the electricity tariff is subsidized, the assumption for project evaluation is that the tariff
covers the upstream costs (i.e. costs of generation and transmission) for any given client, and
thereby project revenues represent a net gain for the distribution companies (with the IDTR
subsidy). This is a conservative assumption, as the alacrity with which the distribution companies
embraced the grid densification project is symptomatic of yielding a good financial return for
them. This allows for a comparison of project costs against consumer surplus benefits. Project
costs per client were approximately $570 per client during Phase I of the grid densification
project, and $800 per client during Phase II.

With these assumptions, the flow of benefits for an average grid densification client is shown in
Table 2.




3
    Source: LCR Power Snapshot, LCSEG, April 2011



                                                  23
                    Table 2: Flow of Benefits for an Average Grid Densification Beneficiary (US$)
            Capital      Capital     Avoided                                                   Phase I     Phase II
            Cost         Cost        lighting      Consumer      Upstream                      Benefit     Benefit
Year        Phase I      Phase II costs            surplus       Costs           Revenues Flow             Flow
        1         570         800                                                                   -570        -800
        2                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
        3                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
        4                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
        5                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
        6                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
        7                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
        8                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
        9                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       10                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       11                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       12                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       13                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       14                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       15                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       16                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       17                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       18                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       19                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       20                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       21                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       22                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       23                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       24                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
       25                                    60          286.47          36.6           36.6      286.47      286.47
                                                                                                    50%         36%

This yields an economic IRR of 50 percent during phase I and an IRR of 36 percent during phase
II.




                                                        24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
          Names                             Title                   Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Dana Rysankova              Senior Energy Specialist               LCSEG        TTL
Eloy Vidal                  Senior Telecommunications Specialist
Supervision/ICR
 Patricia H. de Baquero     Senior Procurement Specialist          MNAPR
 Karen Bazex                Energy Specialist                      LCSEG
 Morten Blomqvist           Operations Officer                     LCCBO
 Susan V. Bogach            Sr Energy Econ.                        LCSEG        TTL
 Bjorn-Soren Gigler         Senior Governance Specialist           WBIIN
 Maria Lucy Giraldo         Senior Procurement Specialist          LCSPT
 Megan Veronica Hansen      Junior Professional Associate          LCSEG
 Alvaro Larrea              Senior Procurement Specialist          LCSPT
 Lourdes Consuelo Linares   Sr Financial Management Specia         LCSFM
 Juan Navas-Sabater         Lead ICT Policy Specialist             TWICT
 Kilian A. Reiche           Consultant                             AFTEG
 Lucia Spinelli             Energy Spec.                           LCSEG        TTL
 Alejandro Marcos Tapia     Energy Spec.                           LCSEG
 Luis Tineo                 Senior Operations Officer              GPOBA
 Eloy Eduardo Vidal         Consultant                             TWICT
 Xiaoping Wang              Senior Energy Specialist               LCSEG
 Eduardo H. Zolezzi         Consultant                             LCSEG
Luis M. Vaca Soto           Consultant                             LCSEG
Jose Yukio Rasmussen        Procurement Specialist                 LCSPT
J. Marcelo Berthin          Financial Management Specialist        LCSFM
Gabriela Arcos              Environmental Specialist               LCSEN
Joaquin Aguilar Aranibar    Consultant                             LSCUW
Elena Segura                Lawyer                                 LEGLA
Fabiola Altimari            Lawyer                                 LEGLA
Pilar Larramendy            Sr. Social Specialist                  LCSSO
José Vicente Zevallos       Sr. Social Specialist                  LCSSO




                                             25
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                       5                      26.60
  FY02                                      25                     144.09
  FY03                                      35                     223.72
  FY04                                       8                      16.25
  FY05                                                               0.00
  FY06                                                               0.00
  FY07                                                               0.00
  FY08                                                               0.00
                          Total:            73                     410.66
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                               0.00
  FY02                                                               0.00
  FY03                                                               0.00
  FY04                                    11                       103.65
  FY05                                    15                        78.63
  FY06                                    29                       126.60
  FY07                                    34                       175.62
  FY08                                    45                       136.01
  FY09                                    36                         0.00
                          Total:         170                       620.51




                                       26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
Not Applicable




                                      27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Not applicable




                                   28
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Summary of Borrower’s ICR
1.      Background
According to the 2001 census, electricity coverage in Bolivia amounted to 64 percent at the
national level, 90 percent in urban areas and 24.5 percent in rural areas. According to surveys
conducted by the project, households using candles or batteries had a cost of Bs.1-2 per lumen-
hour, compared Bs.0.05-0.10 per lumen hour in the case of PV systems or grid connections. The
project sought to replace inefficient lighting sources by modern and less expensive systems.
Project execution (2005-2011). The project became effective in December 2003, but was only
able to initiate operations in 2005 due to lack of budgetary allocation for 2004. In 2005 two
bidding processes were launched: PV systems for 15,000 users, and mobile telephony for 1
million users. The first bidding process, concluded in November 2005, allocated 14 contracts for
a total US$9.9 million with the purpose of installing 17,761 SHS. The second bidding process, for
US$4.5 million, was declared void; a second attempt was launched and was also declared non-
responsive. In 2006 the Ministry of Services, Public Works and Dwellings signed a contract with
ENTEL, the telecommunications company to improve coverage with its own resources. As a
result, the telecom component of the IDTR project was reduced and its budget was reallocated to
electrification. In 2008 a bidding process was launched to supply electricity services through
short grid extensions in rural and peri-urban areas. As a result, 7,700 users were connected to the
grid. In April 2010 a second phase of the grid densification component was launched, reaching
12,373 users.
Performance indicators. The borrower’s ICR summarizes the project indicators and the
completion rates indicated in Annex 2.
2.      Activities associated with the electricity component
PV systems. Due to the bankruptcy of one of the contractors for the SHS (Isofotón), the goals of
the project were restructured to reach 10,000 users. The local company (Energética Aned Hansa
consortium) installed 6,479 systems within its four contracts, together with 52 installations for
health centers and schools at a contracted cost of US$4.2 million. After the bankruptcy of
Isofotón, Energética took over some of the Isofotón customers. Eventually, 10,174 users
benefitted from the SHS component. The results were constantly monitored by the Office of
Technical Monitoring within the PCU; the contracts included maintenance and servicing
provisions for four years. The systems installed are expected to be sustainable as local
maintenance personnel have been trained for this purpose.
Grid densification. The purpose of this component was to electrify users located outside the
100m obligatory service area of distribution companies in rural and peri-urban areas. This was
carried out in two phases; in the first phase (using initial project resources and those liberated
from the ICT component), with an average subsidy of US$400 per connection, 7,700 dwellings
were connected. In a second phase bidding process was implemented with a variable subsidy
scale in order to accomplish the goal of 15,000 connected dwellings. This resulted in proposals
for connecting 12,325 dwellings with an average subsidy of US$590 per dwelling. The execution
of this component was assisted by the participation of NRECA-International, which was hired by
the project. The main problems encountered included a participation of only 10 out of 46
distribution companies due to the absence of technical capacity, the lack of adequate of planning
capacity and identification of users. Problems were also encountered within communities who did
not benefit from the project, despite being possible candidates.




                                                29
Improved cookstoves. This was included in the contracts for SHS such that the project would
provide free of charge improved cookstoves (cocinas Malena) whose technology had been
developed by GIZ. A total of 7,649 cookstoves were installed at a unit cost of around US$38. The
impacts of this element included improved health conditions and gender effects which improved
the lifestyle of women, who are generally in charge of fuelwood collection and food preparation,
as they consume less fuel than traditional stoves. Problems encountered included community
resistance due to lack of knowledge about the project and the false expectation of a gas network,
as well as migration of the population due to a drought.
Productive uses of electricity. As a consequence of the installation of PV systems, productive
uses were supported, including shearing facilities (240), lighting of poultry establishments (14)
and use of electric tools (100 artisans). The sustainability is assured by the interest and ownership
of beneficiaries with respect to their PV installations.
Solar refrigeration. After several false starts, in 2008 an agreement with the Ministry of Health
allowed the installation of 14 vaccine refrigeration units at a cost of around US$7,000 each, with
a positive impact on delivery of health services.
Public Lighting. As part of the productive uses of electricity, public lighting was supported for
three municipalities, with the installation of 1,274 lamps benefitting around 9,000 families.
3.      Activities associated with the telecommunications component
Although the cellular telephony component was cancelled, the project supported the installation
of community telephone centers, including computers and furnishings, together with two
electronic   libraries.    Finally,  the      country gateway     portal    was     developed
(http://www.boliviaproductiva.bo) and is in service.
4.      Execution of the purchase of goods and services.
The main problems encountered were associated with the bureaucratic procedures which were
subject to Ministry procedures that ignored World Bank rules. Drafting contracts could last up to
six months, which required asking suppliers to extend their offers’ dates of validity.
5.      Financial execution
The project had to deal with constant changes in its management, including the absence financial
staff during six months in 2009. This was overcome in January 2010. During 2011, with a
consolidated team, together with an intense concentration, practically 100 percent of the goals
were achieved. A particular operational difficulty consisted in the requirement to obtain
Ministerial approval for travel of project staff, which delayed execution. Another difficulty
encountered was the lengthy process of obtaining non-objections from the World Bank.
6.      Conclusions and recommendations
Project results were presented formally on May 26, 2011 when the Bank’s representative
expressed his satisfaction with the project achievements. The project performance indicators were
all complied with, and the project team requests implementing a second phase of the project
taking into account the experience acquired with the first phase. In order for a second phase to be
successful, it is recommended to keep the current team in place.

Borrower’s comments on draft ICR
In general terms, the report adequately reflects project execution, considering relevant
aspects and obstacles encountered during implementation. However, it would be
necessary to take into account the following aspects:



                                                 30
   •   In order to show the results and impacts achieved when concluding a project, it
       would be useful to consider continuing the impact evaluation during the grace
       period of the loan, and financing it from loan proceeds; this would allow a better
       demonstration of project results and impacts.
   •   Given the instability of fiduciary and OTM staff due to changes made by the
       Bolivian Government, which led to project delays, it would be desirable to
       consider that the Bank hire this personnel directly, to be paid from loan proceeds.
The team of the IDTR PCU thanks the Bank’s representatives for the financing and
support provided to the Project, which enabled its successful execution.




                                           31
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    32
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Proyecto Infraestructura Descentralizada para la Transformación Rural—IDTR, Convenio de
Crédito AIF 3788-BO, Informe Final de Cierre, Julio 2011.

Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed IDA Credit for an Adaptable Program Credit in
support of the First Phase of the Decentralized Infrastructure for Rural Transformation Program
(Bank report 25934), May 2003

Development Credit Agreement between Republic of Bolivia and International Development
Association, June 2003.

Amendment to the Loan Agreement, October 2007.

Restructuring and Amendment of the Credit Agreement to Bolivia for the Decentralized
Infrastructure for Rural Transformation Project—Project Paper, July 2007




                                               33
MAP




      34
35
