                                                                                                     39963


                   INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET (Updated)
                                       Restructuring of Project
Report No.:


Date ISDS PreparedIUpdated:May 21,2007

I. BASIC INFORMATION

A. Basic Project Data

Country: Bolivia                                 Project ID: PO73367
                                                 Additional Project ID (fany):
Project Name: Decentralized ~nfrastructurefor Rural Transformation
Task Team Leader: Susan Bogach
Appraisal Date:                                  Estimated Board Date: NA
Managing Unit: LAC-FPSI                          Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program
                                                 Lending (APL)
Sector: Renewable energy (100%)
Theme: General Energy sector; Renewable Energy, Information technology
IBRD Amount (US$m.):
IDA Amount (US$m.):              20.00
GEF Amount (US$m.):Project (estimated); Project Co-financing.
PCF Amount (US$m.):
Other financing amounts by source (US$m):
Environmental Category: TBD
Simplified Processing                  Simple [ ]                 Repeater [ ]
Is this a transferred project           Yes [ 1                   No [x1

B. Project Objectives
The project development objective is to improve the delivery of electricity services through
private sector led mechanisms as a catalyst for the development of rural areas of Bolivia.

Phase I activities will be confined to the following specific interventions in the identified project
areas: (i) increasing access to rural infrastructure services by using innovative, output-based,
decentralized service delivery models with increased private-sector participation and community
involvement; (ii) defining and implementing improvements in policy, regulatory and institutional
frameworks, and strengthening the respective key institutions; (iii) identifying and developing
applications for the productive and social uses of electricity and ICT; (iv) intensively promoting
the new services, including market development and training of local users, service providers
and authorities; and (v) implementing rigorous monitoring and evaluation programs.


C. Project Description
The project will implement the following three components:

The National Strategiesfor Rural Electrificationand ICT TA will assist the Vice-Ministries of
Energy in developing effective strategies to improve and accelerate electricity coverage
expansion in rural areas, particularly addressing the following aspects: availability of financing;
efficient planning and prioritization of investment projects based on "bottom-up" identification
of demand and binding cost-minimizing criteria; efficient private-sector participation in
investment, operation and maintenance (O&M); competitive allocation of subsidies; adequate
user contributions based on capacity to pay; appropriate O&M arrangements ensuring long-term
sustainability of investments; and introduction of adequate technical standards and regulations
for rural areas. This component will also provide at a more limited scale technical assistance to
the Vice-Ministry of Telecommunications related to the design of a national rural ICT strategy,
how to make the existing rural telecommunications fund operational, and the design of a national
strategy for the implementation of a rural telecenter program.

The Rural coverage expansion component aims at direct expansion of electricity service into
rural areas through a competitive award of subsidies to private-sector operators. Its sub-
components are: the Solar PV Market Development sub-component, which will implement
private-sector led off grid service delivery models, providing up to 20,000 new rural households,
micro-enterprises, schools and health posts with sustainable electricity by offering a menu of
decentralized service options (opening the Bolivian market for the first time to solar home
systems below 40 Wp); the Grid Densification sub-component, which will develop new
regulatory standards, build capacity andfinance investment project that densifies existing grids
within a radius of 1 km. The sub-proje'ctswould be selected through a competitive process based
on proposals presented by proponents, ;sing the criteria of least subsidy per connection. The
restructured sub-component would aim to bring grid electricity to an additional 10,000
households, and the Other Energy and ICT Investment sub-components, which will pilot
additional small interventions related to the coverage expansion component in the electricity
sector. In the ICT sector the project will finance the expansion of ICT activities, such as the
extension of radio and television coverage to rural areas via private-sector led mechanisms.

The Productive and Social Uses component will identify, develop, facilitate and promote
productive and social uses of the installed infrastructure. The Promotion, Communication and
Capacity Building component will provide a common platform for community consultations,
promotion campaigns and training of users in using the new infrastructure efficiently and
productively. The Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation component will focus
primarily on monitoring and evaluation (M&E), including: development of M&E indicators,
baseline and methodology; periodic evaluation of progress toward achieving the identified
targets; and final evaluation upon project completion.



D. Project location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard analysis
(if known):

The primary target areas have been selected, all in isolated rural areas, with high percentage of
indigenous peoples from dispersed households and high incidence of poverty.


Safeguard Policies Triggered (pleaseexplain why)                     Yes           No       I   TBD

    The main component of the project consists of the installation of solar home systems, with
the only potential environmental impact resulting from the disposal of batteries and components.
Mitigation measures have been introduced in the contracts with the private providers and
monitored by Technical Monitoring Office to be established at the Ministry. As part of preparing
the new EMF, several site visits were carried out to verify that the project has not been causing
environmental damage. These visits confirmed that their has been no negative environmental
impact; particularly that the batteries were being adequately recycled.

    The project is expected to have a positive environmental impact through the reduction of
C02 emissions. The consultations with indigenous peoples and other main stakeholders (i.e.
municipalities, Prefecturas, micro-businesses etc.) will be used disseminate the main findings
from the most recent round of environmental analysis.

Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                         x
    NA.
    The limited transmission line extension and densification activities taking place under the
project's densification component are restricted to a range of 100-1,000m and the solar home
systems are installed in the homes of the beneficiaries. The EMF establishes that no project
activities will be carried out in legally established protected areas or in other critical natural
habitats. Also, the Environmental Management Plan incorporated into the EMF provides for the
mitigation of whatever limited impacts (e.g. removal of earth and clearing of vegetation required
for the construction of access roads) may occur in non-critical natural habitats.

Forests (OPIBP 4.36)                                                                 x
    NA

Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                            x
    NA

Physical Cultural Resources (OPBP 4.11)                                              x
    NA

Safeguard Policies Triggered (please explain why)                    Yes         No         TBD

Indigenous Peoples (OPBP 4.10)                                        x
   The project will extend electricity access to rural, low-income households, microenterprises,
schools and clinics in remote and dispersed rural areas. The main project beneficiaries will be
rural low-income communities, in majority indigenous areas from all 9 departments in Bolivia. It
is estimated that approximately 70% of the people in the project area are indigenous.

    The current project will extend its coverage to new project areas in all 9 departments of the
country, with different ethnic, economic, social, and cultural profiles. Based on the restructuring
and the change in the OPIBP for indigenous peoples, the project prepared an updated Indigenous
Peoples Planning Framework, which provides an overview of the existing legal framework of
indigenous peoples in Bolivia, a detailed socio-economic profile of the affected communities,
and a clear definition of the necessary set of procedures and principles to ensure a process of
free, prior, and informed consultation with the affected Indigenous Peoples' communities. The
preparation of the framework has included field visits to indigenous communities, which have
confirmed the strong demand by their members for increased access to energy services in rural
areas.

    The project furthermore draws on the results of the updated Social Assessment (SA), which
has been based on a very broad process of extensive consultation. The main results of this
consultative process, conducted in the context of the preparation of the Social Assessment and
the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, is that there exists a measurable demand from
indigenous communities to gain access to electricity services and that indigenous communities
have a favorable view on the objectives of the project. The main recommendation of the SA is to
proactively involve indigenous commtiiities in the implementation of the sub-projects at the
local level, in order to ensure a process whereby the project effectively responds to the culturally
specific needs of indigenous communities for energy services. Such a process will also
strengthen the social sustainability of the projectat the community level.

Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                  x

The project will not finance any activities that may lead to physical displacement. The project
has nevertheless prepared a Resettlement Policy Framework, in order according to OPIBP 4.12,
in order to identify and account for potential negative impacts from the temporary restriction of
access to assets and the potential resulting loss of income sources. The framework is oriented
toward the avoidance of any "involuntary" restriction on the use of assets, even if this restriction
is only temporary (as through the imposition of easements). The framework establishes clear
principles and a process to ensure the free, prior and informed consultation with the
communities, based on the procedures defined in the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework.
In the case that involuntary land acquisition resulting in a loss of assets cannot be avoided, the
framework defines, based on the existing legal framework in Bolivia and the Bank's replacement
cost standards, a process for the adequate compensation for any financial loss a person might
have experienced. The project anticipates that, in the large majority of cases, land and access to
assets will be voluntarily donated by ppticipating communities in exchange for improved
electricity services, and that any resulting negative impacts on the population will be minimal.

Safeguard Policies Triggered (please explain why)             Yes       No         TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                              x

   NIA.

Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                         x

   NIA.

Projects in Disputed Areas (OPBP 7.60)                                   x

   NIA.




111. SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN

A. The project has updated the existing Environmental Assessment Framework (EA), prepared
    an Indigenous Peoples Planning and an Resettlement Framework.



IV. APPROVALS

 Signed and submitted by:                                                  %oS/30/2003
 Task Team Leader:                  S u s ~ n~ o ~ a c h                        Date
 Approved by:                                                                r/30   h?
 Sector Manager:                                                                Date
I   Comments:

