                                                                                             P7706

                                            DATA SHEET
            Bolivia: Decentralized Infrastructure for Rural Transformation Project

IDate:           July 16, 2007                    1Task Team Leader: Susan Bogach
 Country:        Bolivia                           Sector Manager:        Jose Luis Irigoyen
 Project Name: Decentralized Infrastructure        Sector Director:       Laura Tuck
                 for Rural Transformation          Country Director:      Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
 Project ID:     PO73367                           Environmental category: B
 Borrower:               Govenment of Bolivia
 Responsible agency: Ministry of Services and Public Works, Project Coordination Unit
 Address:                Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 5, Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz,
                         esq. Oruro, La Paz, Bolivia
 Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m>
 FY                   2004        2005        2006       2007        2008          2009        2010
 Annual               0.35        0.38        1.37        1.50        5.00         10.40       3.25
 Cumulative     1     0.35    1   0.73  1     2.10    1   3.60    1   8.60  1      19.00    1 22.25
 Current closing date: December 31,2007
 Revised closing date: June 30, 2009


 Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?       o Yes X No
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                 oYes     o N o
 Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                  oYes XNo

 Revised project development objective/outcomes:
 The project development objective would be revised to eliminate mention of support for ICT
 services. The new PDO would be "to expand and improve the delivery of electricity through
 private-sector led mechanisms as a catalyst for the development of rural areas in Bolivia."

 The project outcomes related to cellular telephone coverage expansion would be eliminated
 and those for electricity grid densification would be substantially increased.

 Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies?
 The project triggers a new Involuntary Resettlement Policy and required an update of the
 existing safeguard frameworks for (a) Environmental Assessment, and (b) Indigenous
 Peoples.

 Revised Financing Plan (US$m.)
                     Source                      1     Local    1   Foreign      1     Total
 Borrower                                                0.18            0.00                  0.18
 IDA                                                    14.19            8.05                 22.25
 Total                                                  14.37            8.05                 22.43




                                                                                  IDU 5/5/09


   RESTRUCTURING AND AMMENDAMENT OF THE CREDIT AGREEMENT TO
        BOLIVIA FOR THE DECENTRALIZED INFRASTRUCTURE FOR RURAL
                  TRANSFORMATION PROJECT, (CREDIT NO. 3788-BO)



                                        PROJECT PAPER




Introductory Statement

This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the following
changes in the Bolivia Decentralized Infrastructure for Rural Transformation (IDTR) Project,
Credit No. 3788-BO, Project No. P073367, and any accompanying amendments to the Project's
legal documents. The proposed restructuring would: (a) eliminate the non-performing Telephone
Coverage Expansion sub-component, which is expected to be implemented outside the Project;
(b) reassign funds from the Telephone Coverage Expansion sub-component to the Grid
Deiisification sub-component, which is a high priority for the Government of Bolivia; (c) reduce
the telecommunications technical assistance activities to focus on activities that are likely to
achieve results in the short term, including information and communications technologies (ICT)
for productive and social uses and support to the Government in designing a national rural ICT
strategy; (d) make small adjustments to funding levels of other components; and (e) remove
mention of support for ICT services from the project development objective (PDO) and adjust
the project indicators and triggers to take into account the changes mentioned above. As part of
the restructuring, the Project's closing date would be extended from December 31, 2007 to June
30, 2009.

Background and Reasons for Restructuring

This $20 million IDA-funded project is the first stage of a $60 million, three-phase Adaptable
Program Loan (APL). The purpose of the three-phase program is to assist the Government of
Bolivia (GOB) in expanding and improving the delivery of infrastructure services through
private-sector led mechanisms as a catalyst for the development of rural areas in Bolivia. The
project development objective (PDO) for APL-1 was identical to the program objective, except
that it focused on "electricity and ICT services" instead of "infrastructure services".

The Project was approved on June 17, 2003 and became effective on December 18, 2003.
However, the Project did not receive a budget allocation from the GOBduring 2004. As a result,
implementation and disbursements did not begin until 2005. Further delays were caused by
political instability (there have been four presidents during the Project's life) and social conflicts
that have discouraged long-term planning and national strategies. The Ministry of Services and
Public Works, the Vice Ministry of Electricity and Alternative Energy (VMEEA), and the Vice
Ministry of Telecommunications have suffered even more frequent changes of leadership. The
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has lacked key personnel during most of the life of the Project,
including the key position of Project Coordinator, which was not filled until September 2006.

Since 2006, under the Morales Government, the political climate has stabilized and project
execution has accelerated. Significant progress has been made toward the development of a

national rural electrification strategy, the Electricity Program for Living with Dignity (Programa
de Electricidad para Vivir con Dignidad), with a goal of 50 percent rural electrification by 2010
and universal access by 2025. The VMEEA is defining the implementation details of the
national strategy with the support of the Project. In 2005, a new rural electrification regulatory
framework was established by Supreme Decree, permitting better regulation of distribution
companies in centers with less than 20,000 inhabitants. The development of the new framework
is largely complete. Next steps include finalizing the regulations for rural electrification and a
universal access fund.

Substantial progress has also been made in terms of meeting electricity investment targets.
Fourteen contracts have been signed for off-grid electrification of 17,761 rural households, small
businesses and social users in poor areas of Bolivia, using an innovative output-based model
based on a public-private partnership. The VMEEA is committed to this approach. A Global
Partnership for Output-Based Aid Trust Fund (GPOBA) grant of US$5.175 million has been
approved to replicate the IDTR activity.' Policy development and coverage expansion efforts in
telecommunications have been markedly less successful. There have been no significant
advances in terms of establishing a telecommunications regulatory framework or a rural telecom
fund. Two project-supported tenders for expansion of cellular coverage failed due to the lack of
qualified offers. After the second failed tender, the Government changed course and signed an
agreement with Elite1 to extend cellular service to rural areas, outside the Project. Prospects for
future tenders for other geographical areas are dim given the problems in awarding the first two
tenders.

Both disbursement/comniitments and physical indicators confirm that the electricity sector
components progress was much better than those of the telecommunications components. The
mid-term review showed disbursements of $2.2 million and funds committed/disbursed of $11.4
million. Funds committed/disbursed for electricity were $10.8 million compared with $0.6
million for telecommunications. In November 2006, the Project team agreed with management
that the project rating should be downgraded to unsatisfactory because of limited overall
disbursements and progress in achieving development objectives, particularly within the
telecommunications components. It was also agreed that action should be taken to improve
project performance and, hopefully, to upgrade the ratings. The team discussed and agreed
provisionally with the Government on the elements of the proposed restructuring during the mid-
term review.

The restructuring is justified for the following reasons: i) low disbursements and an
unsatisfactory project rating due to the poor performance of the telecom sub-components; ii) low
probability of completing the ambitious telecomn~unicationssector goals given the limited
achievements to date; iii) generally satisfactory performance of the electricity sub-components
and probability of achieving the relevant targets (assuming that the closing date is extended by
18 months); iv) the Government's strong desire to expand the grld densification sub-component
as part of its overall universal access strategy; and v) the need to make the Project more
responsive to current Government priorities. In short, the Project has had some difficulties, but
with the proposed changes, the uncommitted funds can be used to achieve relevant outcomes.



1In addition, a carbon finance project is under consideration to support the IDTR and GPOBA activities related to
solar systems.

                                                           2

Proposed Changes

The restructuring would not affect the APL series program objective. However, the project
development objective would be modified to eliminate mention of ICT services. The original
APL-1 PDO was "to expand and improve the delivery of electricity and ICT services through
private-sector led mechanisms as a catalyst for the development of nxal areas in Bolivia." The
restructured PDO would be "to expand and improve the delivery of electricity services through
private-sector led mechanisms as a catalyst for the development of rural areas in Bolivia."

The main proposed change is to expand the interventions in electricity by scaling up grid
densification activities from US$1.2 million to US$5.20 million. The scaled-up activities are
likely to achieve success and have significant development impact even in Bolivia's difficult
environment because they are in line with the Government's universal access strategy and would
be carried out via private and public distribution companies. The hnding would come fiom
reallocating the $4.1 million for rural cellular telephone coverage. The Project would continue
with some telecommunications activities, but most of the investments originally envisaged for
the APL-1 would be postponed until satisfactory capacity has been developed, possibly during
APL-2. The restructuring would also allocate funds to prepare APL-2, which is mentioned in
Bolivia's Interim Strategy Note as an FY09 project.*

To coniplete the restructured activities, an extension of the project closing date of 18 months
would be needed, fiom December 31, 2007 to June 30, 2009, as requested by GOB.^                       The
sections below detail the specific changes to the components and budgets (see Table 1 for
details).

A. National Strategies for Rural Electrification and ICT. The original budget for Bank
financing was US$1.78 million of which US$0.31 million has been disbursed and/or committed.
The proposed restructuring would reduce the budget to US$1.6 million and increase the focus on
the electricity sector. US$100,000 would be allocated to provide technical assistance to the GOB
related to the design of a national rural ICT strategy, how to make the existing rural
telecommunications fund operational, and the design of a national strategy for the
implementation of a n~raltelecenter program. US$500,000 would be budgeted for the
preparation of APL-2. The remainder (US$690,000) would support the development of a
regulatory framework and universal access fund for electricity, which would be triggers for APL-
2.

B. Rural Coverage Expansion Investment. The overall budget for this coniponent would
increase from US$13.98 million to US$16.00 million, reflecting the changes in the sub-
components described below.

B.1 Solar PV Installation and Market Development. Bank financing for this sub-component
would increase from US$8.32 million to US$10.15 million to reflect the actual cost of already-
signed contracts for solar photovoltaic (PV) units.




2World Bank (2006). Interim Strategy Notefor the Republic ofBolivia. Report KO.36095-BO. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
'See letter from VIPFE dated December 18, 2006.

B.2 Grid Densification. Bank financing for this sub-component would increase from US$1.2
million to $5.2 million, using funds reallocated from the cellular phone sub-component. It would
finance sub-projects executed through Service Management Contracts with electricity service
providers to extend service to users close to the grid but outside the limits of existing concessions
(100 meters from the existing grid). Sub-projects would be selected through a competitive
process based on proposals presented by proponents, using .the criteria of least subsidy per
connection. The restructured sub-component would aim to bring grid electricity to an additional
10,000 households, compared to the original goal of 300 households. Of the US$5.20 million,
roughly US$200,000 would be allocated for technical assistance. The technical assistance would
pay for a workshop to help bidders prepare proposals and for field inspectors to oversee and
verify the execution of the contracts.




* The net increase in Bank financing is due to a change m the exchange rate between SDRs and US dollars.

B.3 Cellular Phone Coverage Expansion.                     Financing for this sub-component would be
eliminated given that cellular expansion is being undertaken with local resources. Funds would
be transferred to sub-component B.2 and the indicators related to this sub-component would be
eliminated.

B.4 Other Investment in Rural Energy and ICT. The budget for this sub-component would
be increased from US$0.36 million to US$1.13 million given the rapid disbursement to date.
The additional funds would be used for an expansion of energy and ICT activities.

C. Productive and Social Uses. This component includes activities to identify, develop, and
promote productive and social uses of electricity and ICT. The ICT related elements include the
implementation of an Internet-based Country Gateway that would provide local communities
with improved access to information (i.e. market prices) and online services (e-learning); and the
development of specific e-government services (i.e. Aid Management Platform) to strengthen the
Government's transparency and accountability. Service contracts would be used to: 1) promote
the productive use of electricity; 2) provide technical assistance to potential beneficiaries in
preparing qualified proposals; and 3) transfer grants to selected beneficiaries.                      Potential

beneficiaries include individual households and micro- and small businesses and corporations in
rural areas. Project funding will be provided to the beneficiaries for goods and services to
increase use of electricity for income generation. The eligibility criteria for the activities to be
financed will be defined in the bidding documents. Given that the amount of each grant is
expected to be very small, the beneficiaries will follow their comnlercial practice for
procurement of goods and services under the Community Driven Development framework. The
project will monitor the uses of funds for intended purposes through annual auditing.

D. Promotion, Communication, and Capacity Building. No changes are proposed to this
component.

E. Management and M&E. This component finances project management as well as
monitoring and evaluation. The proposed restructuring would reduce the budget of this
component by 17 percent (from US$2.04 to 1.7 million) taking into account the current
Government's austerity program.

Implementation Arrangements. In general, the procurement, financial management, and
disbursement arrangements (flow of funds) would remain the same. However, specific sections
of the Operational Manual have been adjusted/con~plemented as needed to reflect the
arrangements of the grid densification sub-component. Grid densification would entail sub-
projects executed through Service Management contracts between the Project and electricity
service providers registered with the Superintendencia de Electricidad using national
competitive bidding procedures. A process to solicit, evaluate, select (using national bidding
procedures), and implement the sub-projects would be put in place. Payments would be made to
the distribution companies based  011completion of milestones specified in the contract. Grants to
beneficiaries for pronlotion of income generating activities would be made through service
contracts for the Productive Uses (component C), and any minor implementation changes that
might be required are being developed. It is worth noting that the Project's financial management
has been rated as satisfactory for the last two Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) and there
have been no issues regarding financial statement audits. The proposed restructuring would also
allow the Project to adopt the May 2004 procurement guidelines.

Analysis

The proposed changes would affect the original financial, economic, and social aspects of the
Project as appraised. Namely, the benefits of the cellular coverage expansion would not be
realized directly by the Project. As noted above, the cellular coverage expansion is being
undertaken by Entel without project support. In other words, the cellular coverage expansion
benefits are expected to be realized by Bolivians in rural areas, but through a different method-
without the output-based, competitive approach originally envisaged by the project. The benefits
therefore are now outside the scope of the Project. The cellular coverage expansion budget
would be re-allocated to the rural electrification activities, increasing the benefits realized from
that component.

Financial. All of the sub-projects will have to include a financial analysis as part of their bidding
proposals. The evaluation criteria for the financial viability will be established in the bidding
documents.

Economic. The benefits from increased n~ralelectrification-the                                 target number of new users
connected through grid densification has jumped from 300 to 10,000-are                                              likely to be
tremendous. The benefits of rural electrification are described in the PAD and have been
extensively documented elsewhere. Each of the grid densification sub-projects will be required
to meet a minimum econonlic rate of return as mandated by the Government of Bolivia as part of
the National Public Investment System (Sistema Nacional de Inversion Pziblica, SNIP).

Social 1 Safeguards. The sub-projects in the grid densification sub-component would not change
the environmental Category B rating of the Project. However, the new grid densification
activities would generate different impacts than those envisioned in the original Project, which
involved only solar home systems and facilities for cellular telephone expansion. Therefore,
changes have been made to the Project's safeguards frameworks. Changes include: a) updates to
the Project's Enviroixnental Assessment Framework; b) updates to the Indigenous Peoples
Framework; and c) development of an Involuntary Resettlement Framework.

Exceptions. The proposed restructuring does not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.

Expected Outcomes

    The proposed changes would require removing "ICT services" from the Project's original development
objective as explained above. The key outcome indicators would be revised to take account of today's difficult
    operating environment and the scaling down of the ICT components (see Table 2). The outcome/impact
   indicators for achieving the proposed project development objective are revised as shown in Table 3. The
                           proposed changes to the triggers to move to APL-2 are described in

Table 4, aiming to scale down the requirements for telecommunications while still leaving the
door open for re-engagement in telecoms during APL-2 and APL-3.




and affordable regulatory and techn~calstandards for rural
areas, and facilitating private investment in rural electrification    1
2. Establishment of a financing mechai~ismfor susta~nable                         IEstablishment of a financing mechanism for
rural electricity coverage expansion, with adequate sources of                     sustainable rural electricity coverage expansion,
funding and transparent rules for efficient, effective and                         with transparent rules for efficient, effective and
competitive use of public resources for rural electrification                      competitive use of public resources for rural
investment with private sector participation                                       electrification investment with private sector
                                                                                   varticivation. TARGET: Com~leted.
3. Adoption of a comprehensive strategy for the
promotion and use of ICT for development of rural
areas, reflecting conditions of liberalized                                        Eliminated because it is no longer relevant after
telecommunications market, and combining all available                             restructuring.
technologies, including telephony, Internet, rural radios
and other communications means
4. Operationalization of a rural teleconmunications fund with
transparent and efficient rules for subsidy allocation, and                        Eliminated because it is no longer relevant after
                                                                        Completed
identification of sustainable funding to implement the rural                       restructuring.
ICT strategy
5. Enactment of a new regulation for the telecom sector, with
adequate regulatory and technical standards to facilitate private                  Eliminated because it is no longer relevant after

telecom investment in rural areas                                           1restructuring.
                                                     Investment Targets
5. Number of equivalent photovoltaic (PV) solar home systems
                                                                  15,000                         15,000
installed4
6. Number of service management contracts for solar PV                6                              6
7. Number of new users connected through grid densification         300                          10,000
8. Number of new cellular phone connections in rural areas                   Eliminated because it is no longer relevant after
                                                                             restructuring.
                                                                  251000


9. Rural population covered by the new cellular phone services               Eliminated because it 1s no longer relevant after
                                                               11000'0005
                                                                             restructuring.
10.Number of new productive users of electricity under the
                                                                     100                            100
PV solar home systems and productive uses components
11. Tons of Carbon Dioxide Abated                                 14,000                         14,000
12. Country Gateway fully operational by End of Project        Completed                       Completed



                        Table 3: Proposal for Outcome/Impact Indicators to Meet the PDO
Project Development Objective                                      Outcome/Impact Indicators

The project development                 Improved coverage
objective is to expand and                 Improved coverage of infrastructure services in rural areas, as a result of
improve delivery of electricity            project investments, their replication, and policy and regulatory changes.
services through private-sector led
mechanisms as a catalyst for the        Increased investment
development of rural areas in              Increased volume and percentage of investment in electricity to come from
Bolivia.                                   private sources, as a result of project investments, their replication, and
                                           policy and regulatory changes.

                                        Employment and income
                                        generation
                                           Increased employment in rural areas achieved through the implementation
                                           of decentralized delivery models and facilitation of productive uses of
                                           infrastructure
                                           Number of new micro-businesses in rural areas developed through
                                           implementation of decentralized delivery models and facilitation of
                                           productive uses of infrastructure.
                                           Increased production from the installation of solar-based water pumps and
                                           other productivity-enhancing tools based on electricity and ICT.
                                           Iniproved farmer awareness of markets and agricultural prices.

                                        Living standards and social
                                        Sewices
                                           User satisfaction index with new electricity services.
                                           Increased indoor illumination quality in rural households, and decreased
                                           illumination costs measured in US$/lumen.
                                           Increased hours spent reading and studying due to improved household
                                           illumination.
                                           Reduced turnover of rural teachers and health care workers.
                                           Increased use of school facilities for evening classes and
                                           educationalicultural events, and increased use of audiovisual and ICT
                                           equipment in schools.




4Solar home system equivalents are calculated based on 36 Wp average systems. See Annex 11 of the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) for additional details.
5Includes concentrated populations and continuous areas.

                                           Table 4: Pro~osalfor New APL-2 Triggers
                                Original                                                     Proposed Changes
                                                           Policy triggers
1. Adoption and implementation of a new regulatory framework for
rural electr~fication(RE), establishing adequate and affordable
                                                                                                 No change
regulatory and technical standards for rural areas, and facilitating
private investment in rural electrification
2. Establishment of a financing mechanism for sustainable rural
                                -                                       1Establishment of a financ~ngmechanism for sustainable
                                                                                                      -
electricity coverage expansion, with adequate sources of funding and     rural electricity coverage expansion, with transparent
transparent rules for efficient, effective and competitive use of        n~lesfor effic~ent,effective and competitive use of public
public resources for rural electrification investment with private       resources for rural electrification investment with private
sector participation                                                    Isector participation
3. Operationalization of a rural telecommunications fund with
transparent and efficient rules for subsidy allocation, and
                                                                                                 Eliminated                             1
identification of sustainable funding to implement the rural ICT
stratem
4. Enactment of a new regulation for the telecom sector, with
adequate regulatory and technical standards to facilitate private                                Eliminated
telecom investment in rural areas
                                                         Investment triggers
5. At least 15,000 of equivalent solar home systems installed                                    No change
6. Minimum of 25,000 new cellular phone users in 100 communities                                 Eliminated
7. Fullv o~erationalInternet-based Countrv Gatewav vortal                                        No change


Risks

Restructuring should improve the Project's perfomlance, but the risks of continued problems
remain significant given the difficult country environment. Remaining risks include:
 a.         Historically high turn-over in leadership in the Ministry of Public Services and Works.
            This is a country risk rather than one associated with the Project. However, stability of
            leadership has increased under the Morales Government and the risk would be mitigated
            by the broad support for the universal access strategy for electricity, as well as increased
            involvement by prefectures and municipalities.
 b.         Staffing constraints and the low salaries that are part of Bolivia's austerity measures may
            limit the capacity of the Project Coordination Unit. However, the Project has recently
            succeeded in attracting well qualified staff to several positions. It will be important that
           the Ministry provide other incentives to staff to remain, such as opportunities for
            training. To mitigate this risk further, the VMEEA has agreed to hire a consulting firm
            (under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and following a conlpetitive
           procedure) on an ongoing basis to supply technical assistance to assist the PCU in
           meeting the Project's objectives.

The World Bank                                                     1818 H Street N.W.            (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT              Washington, D.C. 20433        Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                              U.S.A.                        Cable Address: INDEVAS


            DRAFT
            June 12,2007


            His Excellency
            Gabriel Loza
            Minister of Planning and Development
            Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 5
            Ave. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Oruro
            La Paz, Bolivia



                             Re:      Credit No. 3788-BO (Decentralized Infrastructure for Rural
                             Transformation Project)
                                      Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement

            Excellency:

                     Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) dated June 23, 2003 between
            the International Development Association (the Association) and the Republic of Bolivia (the
            Borrower). In this letter all terms defined in the DCA have the same meaning as therein set forth.


                     Pursuant to your request dated December 18, 2006, as well as our recent discussions on
            the subject, the Association hereby agrees to amend the DCA to: (i) eliminate the Telephone
            Coverage Expansion sub-component; (ii) reassign funds to the Grid Densification sub-component
            and other components; and (iii) reduce the telecommunications technical assistance activities.

                     Consequently the DCA is hereby amended as follows:


                     11      Section 1.02(i) is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:


                     "(i)    "Service Management Contracts" means any or all the agreements executed
                     between the Borrower and private and public sector service providers under Part B of the
                     Project;".


                     2)      Section 1.02  6)is hereby amended by replacing the period at the end thereof with
                     a semicolon.


                     3)      A new Section 1.02 (k) is hereby added:

                             ""Beneficiaries" means the Borrower's rural households, agriculture producers,
                             and small businesses in rural areas, which will be selected to receive grants for
                             the financing of works, goods and services under Part C.l of the Project
                             according to eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;".'




                     4)      A new Section 1.02 (1) is hereby added:

                 "Grid Densification Subprojects" means a set of activities or investments covered
        by Part B.2 of the Project which is eligible for financing in accordance with the criteria
        set forth in the Project Operational Manual; and"


        5 )      A new Section 1.02(m) is hereby added:

                 "Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan, dated [May 21,
        20071 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the
        same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section
        3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project
        implementation.".


        6)       Section 2.03 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:

                 "Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the
        Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
        later date.


        7 )      Section 3.02 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:

                 "Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement
        of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
        proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
        Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.


        (b)      The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines
        acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not later than 12
        months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Association's approval.


        8)       Section 5.01 (b) is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:


        "(b)     Service Management Contracts shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, waived or not enforced, in whole or in part, so as to, in the opinion of the Association,
affect materially and adversely the implementation of Parts B.l or B.2 of the Project."


        9)       Schedule 1 to the DCA is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in
        Annex I to this Amendment Letter.


        10)      Schedule 2 to the DCA is hereby amended in its entirety as set forth in Annex I1
to this Amendment Letter.


        11)      Schedule 3 of the DCA is hereby amended in its entirety as set forth in Annex I11
to this Amendment Letter.


        12)      Paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to the DCA is hereby amended to read in its entirety
as follows:

        "5.      Private Sector Service Providers under Part B.l of the Project

        Without limitation under the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall select
the private sector service providers in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement and shall make payments to said service providers in accordance with Service

Management Contracts and with the Project Operational Manual upon the completion of specific
installation, operation, maintenance, user training and market development outputs over a
medium-term contracted period.".


         13)     A new paragrap116 of Schedule 4 to the DCA is hereby added:

         "6.     Private and Public Sector Service Providers under Part B.2 of the Project

         Without limitation under the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall select
the private and public sector service providers in accordance with: (i) the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement; and (ii) the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, and shall make
payments to said service providers in accordance with Service Management Contracts and with
the Project Operational Manual upon the conlpletion of specific benchmarks to install, operate
and maintain electricity connections.".


         14)     Schedule 6 to the DCA is hereby amended in its entirety as set forth in Annex IV
to this Amendment Letter.



         Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this
amendmei~tletter in the spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be executed in two
counterparts each of which shall be an original. Upon confirmation please return one fully
executed original to us. The provisions set forth in this amendment letter shall become effective
as of the date above written upon receipt by the Association of one fully executed original of this
amendment letter.

                                            Sincerely,

                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                         BY
                                      Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
                                             Director
                              Bolivia, Ecuador, Peni and Venezuela
                             Latin America and the Caribbean Region




AGREED:

REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA

By:



Name:



Date:


                                                                                      Annex I
                                         SCHEDULE 1

                           Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                        Amount of the
                                       Credit Allocated               % of
                                         (Expressed in            Expenditures
       Category                        SDR Equivalent)           to be Financed


(1)   Works                                    100,000             100%

(2)   Goods and Non-Consultant Services 1,000,000                  100%

(3)   Expenditures under
      Service Management
      Contracts

      (a)   under Part B.1                                      100% of allocated OBA
            of the Project                                     payments for
                                                               photovoltaic systems


      (b) under Part B.3                                        100% of allocated OBA for
                                                               cellular phone expansion
             of the Project

      (c)   under Part B.2                                      100% of expenditures under the
                                                               Grid Densification Subprojects
            of the Project


(4)   Consultants services

      (a)   under Part A
             of the Project

      (b) under Parts B
             and C of the Project

      (c)    under Parts D and
             E of the Project

      (d) Project audits

(5)   Operating Costs

                                           Amount of the
                                         Credit Allocated                   % of
                                           (Expressed in                Expenditures
         Category                        SDR Equivalent)               to be Financed

(6)     Refunding of                              170,800            Amount due pursuant
        Project Preparation                                          to Section 2.02 (c) of
        Advance                                                      this Agreement

(7)     Unallocated

(8)     Grants to Beneficiaries                  300,000             100% of expenditures for
                                                                     works, goods and services
                                                                     financed by a grant under Part
                                                                     C.1 of the Project



              TOTAL



2.            For the purposes of this Schedule:


          (a)     the term "Non-Consultant Services" means the services that do not require
intellectual capacity, including, inter alia, the printing of materials and promotional services (e.g.
radio spots);


          (b)     the term "Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account
of Project implementation, including office furniture and supplies, vehicle operation and
maintenance, communication and insurance costs, rental expenses, office maintenance costs,
utilities, training and travel cost for Project staff and for other Borrower's officials directly
involved in Project implementation (but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil
service), none of which would have been incurred absent the Project;


          (c)     the tern1"OBA payments for photovoltaic systems" means an amount or amounts
paid ex-post by the Borrower to private sector service providers upon installation of solar home
systems and delivery of market development services under Parts B.l of the Project, which
amount cannot exceed the agreed price set forth in the relevant Management Service Contract for
such installation and delivery.


3.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures under category (3) above unless the Association
has received confim~ationby the PCU in form and substance satisfactory to the Association that
the respective Service Management Contract has been executed; and (b) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this agreement.

4.       The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing less
than $500,000 equivalent each; (b) goods and Non-Consultant services under contracts costing
less than $250,000 equivalent each; (c) services under consulting contracts with fimls costing less
than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) services under consulting contracts with individuals costing
less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (e) grants to Beneficiaries and Operating Costs, all under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                                                                          Annex I1

                                            SCHEDULE 2

                                      Description of the Project

         The objective of the Project is to expand and improve the delivery of electricity services
through private sector-led mechanisms as a catalyst for the developn~entof rural areas in the
Borrower's territory.

         The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: National Rural Infrastructure Strategy

         Development of effective strategies to improve and accelerate electncity and ICT
coverage in rural areas through the: (i) design of rural infi-astruch~reexpansion programs; (ii)
carrying out of a demand analysis; (iii) design of legal and regulatory frameworks; (iv) design of
subsidy and access policies; (v) strengthening of policy making and implementing institutions;
and (vi) design of adequate mechanisms for carbon credit utilization; all through the acquisition
of goods and the provision of technical advisory services, capacity building activities, and
training for the Borrower's civil service staff working in regulatory, policy-making and
implementing institutions.

Part B: Rural Coverage Expansion

1.       Solar Photovolatic System Installation and Market Development

         Provision of rural electricity services by contracting private sector service providers to:
(i) acquire, install, operate, maintain and pass ownership of solar home systems to rural
households, micro-enterprises, schools, health posts and other rural establishments in defined
areas; and (ii) deliver specified local market development services.

2.       Grid Densification

         Increase of electricity access in areas in close proximity to the existing power distribution
grids through: (i) the contracting of private and public sector providers to extend the grid beyond
the concession limit of 100 meters from the grid, install electricity connections and initiate
electricity services; and (ii) the provision of technical assistance.

3.       Other Energy and ICT Investment

         Carrying out of pilot small interventions related to coverage expansion, such as, by
installing household-based pico-hydro units, computers and other ICT equipment and by
expanding local television and radio station coverage; all through the execution of works, the
acquisition of goods and equipment and the provision of technical advisory services.

C.      Productive and Social Uses

1.      Productive Uses

         Identification, development, facilitation and promotion of productive uses of electricity
in rural areas, focusing on income and employment-generating activities, such as refrigeration,

water pumping and appliances for ago-processing; all through the execution of works, the
acquisition of goods and equipment and the provision of technical advisory services (including
capacity-building initiatives) to policy-making, regulatory and implementing institutions, as well
as the private sector.

2.       Social Uses of Electricity

         Identification, development, facilitation and promotion of social uses of electricity,
primarily solar-based, in rural areas, focusing on electrification of schools and health centers; all
through the acquisition of goods and services and the provision of technical advisory services
(including capacity building initiatives) to policy-making, regulatory and implementing
institutions.

3.       Productive and Social Uses of ICT

         Identification, development, facilitation and promotion of productive and social uses of
ICT, focusing on income and enlployment-generating activities, such as: (i) expansion of access
to agricultural prices and other relevant agro-information using ICT tools, including internet,
radio and television programs; and (ii) development of an internet-based portal (Country
Gateway) which will include sub-portals for agriculture, energy, rural finance and other relevant
economic and social themes, all through the acquisition of goods and equipment and the
provision of technical advisory services (including capacity building initiatives) to policy-
making, regulatory and implementing institutions, as well as the private sector.

D.       Promotioii, Communication and Capacitv-Building

         Provision of a common platform for community consultations, by promoting campaigns
for rural infrastructure expansion programs and training of end-users, private sector service
providers and intermediary and community associations, in order to benefit from the new
infrastructure efficiently and productively and to promote and disseminate ICT-based services; all
through the acquisition of goods and the provision of technical advisory services and training.

E.       Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

1.       Project Management

         Management of project implementation through acquisition of goods, including veliicles,
and provision of technical advisory services, including training for the PCU.

2.       Monitoring and Evaluation

         Monitoring and evaluation of Project implementation by: (i) developing indicators,
baselines and methodologies; (ii) making a periodic evaluation of progress toward achieving the
identified targets; (iii) malung a final evaluation upon project completion; and (iv) preparing
follow-up operations; all through the acquisition of goods and the provision of technical advisory
services.




                  The Project is expected to be completed by December 30, 2008.

                                                                                        Annex I11

                                         SCHEDULE 3


                                          Procurement


Section I.      General


A.      (1)     Goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this
Schedule;


        (2)     in procuring goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) under
part A of Section I1hereafter, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents acceptable to
the Association.


B.      All consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Association Borrowers" dated
May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.


C.      The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular procurement
methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, have the meanings
ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.


Section 11.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other than
                Consultants' Services)


A.     International Competitive Bidding.       Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this
        Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
       The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for
       domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the
       territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.


B.     Other Procurement Procedures


        1 (a)   National Competitive Bidding.


        (i)     (A) Goods, including vehicles, and services (other than consultants' services)
        other than for Part B.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per
        contract and works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be
       procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; and

                (B) Service Management Contracts under Part B.2 of the Project, estimated to
       cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded
       on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; and

(ii) In the procurement of goods and services or works under this paragraph the Borrower
shall use standard documents acceptable to the Association and included in .the
Operational Manual.



 (b)      Special Provisions

In addition to and without limitation upon any other provision set forth in this Schedule
or the Guidelines, the following rules shall govern the procurement of goods and services
(other than consultants' services) and works under National Competitive Bidding
method:

(i) a merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bids;

(ii) the award of goods and services and works contracts shall be based exclusively on
price and, whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those
referred to in paragraph 2.52 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid
evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the
procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;

(iii) the Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance with a
procedure satisfactory to the Association;

(iv) the Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure;

(v) whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a bid,
the amounts in words shall govern;

(vi) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not be
declared void if only three (3) bids or less have been submitted ~~nlesssuch bids have
been determined to be non-responsive;

(vii) any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) which
are at least substantially equivalent to the Borrower's standards and technical
specifications shall be acceptable;

(viii) foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate;

(ix) foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to their
bids with the Borrower's authorities as a prerequisite of bidding;

(x) no margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders;

(xi) the auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used;

(xii) in the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the bid with the second
lowest evaluated price; and

(xiii) foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to enter
into ajoint venture agreement with local bidders.

         2.       Shopping. Goods and services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract and works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basls of Shopping.


         3.       Direct Contracting. Goods and services and works which the Association agrees
meet the requirements for Direct Contracting may, with the Association's prior agreement, be
procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement method.


Section 111.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services


A.       Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this
Section, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may
comprise entirely national consultants.


B.       Other Proced~~res


         1.       Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Association agrees
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.


         2.       Selection Under a Fixed Budget. Services for assignments which the Association
agrees meet .the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.


         3.       Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Association agrees
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.


         4.       Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines.


         5.       Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may,
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines.


         6.      Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of
the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-
source basis.

C.      Special Provisions


        In addition to and without limitation upon any other provisions set forth in this Schedule
or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall govern the procurement of consultants'
services referred to in this Schedule:

1.      As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants shall not be
required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, unless the conditions
stated in paragraph 1.13of the Consultant Guidelines are met.

2.      As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants shall not be
required to legalize their proposals, or any documentation related to such proposals, with
authorities of the Borrower's country.

3.      Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower's National
Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoria).

Section IV.      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions


A.      (1)      Except as -theAssociation shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower,
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Association's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.


        (2)      The Borrower shall arrange the publication of a summary of the Procurement
Plan and any update thereof in the UN Development Business Magazine.


        (3)      The Borrower and the Association shall meet from time to time to review
progress in the implementation of the Procurement Plan.


        (4)      Without any limitation to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, any
modification to the Procurement Plan shall require the Association's prior review and approval.


B.      Records and audits

        1.       Records

        (a)      The Borrower shall:


                 (i)      maintain or cause to be maintained Procurement Records (as hereinafter
                          defined) adequate to reflect in accordance with sound procurement
                          practices (including related supervision, review and auditing); and


                 (ii)     ensure that all such Procurement Records evidencing such procurement
                          activities are retained until at least two (2) years after the Closing Date.


        (b)      For the purposes of this Section, the term "Procurement Records" means:


                 (i)      with respect to procurement of goods and works: public notices of
                          bidding opportunities; bidding documents and addenda; bid opening
                          information; bid evaluation reports; formal appeals by bidders and
                          outcomes; signed contracts, addenda and amendments; records on claims

                         and dispute resolution; and records of time taken to complete key steps in
                         the process; and


                 (ii)    with respect to selection of consultants: public notices for expressions of
                         interest; requests for proposals and addenda; technical and final
                         evaluation reports; formal appeals by firms and related outcomes; signed
                         contracts, addenda and amendments; records on claims and dispute
                        resolution; and records of time taken to complete key steps in the
                        process.

        2.      Audits:

        The Borrower shall:

        (a)     have the Procurement        Records audited      annually, in accordance with
internationally accepted procurement standards consistently applied, by independent procurement
experts acceptable to the Association;


        (b)     furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case no later than six
(6) months after the end of each calendar year of Project implementation, the report of said audit,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and


        (c)     at any time during Project implementation, furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said audit, as the Association may reasonably request.


                                                                                      Annex IV
                                               SCHEDULE 6

                                          Performance Indicators

          The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said indicators
 being subject to modifications by agreement between the Borrower and the Association:



 Performance indicators                               Target by end of project
 1. Adoption and implementation of a new              Completed
    regulatory framework for rural electnfication
    (RE), establishing adequate and affordable
    regulatory and technical standards for rural      c
    areas, and facilitating private investment in
                          - -

    rural electrification
 2. Establishment of a financing mechanism for        Completed
    sustainable rural electricity coverage
    expansion, with transparent rules for
    efficient, effective and competitive use of
    public resources for rural electrification
    investment with private sector participation.
 3. Number of equivalent photovoltaic (PV)
    solar home systems installed
 4.Number of Service Management Contracts
    for solar PV
 5 . Numbers of new users connected through

I   grid densification
 6. Number of new productive users of                 100
    electricity under the PV solar home systems
    and productive uses components                   1                                               1
 7.  on's of Carbon ~ i o x i d e ~ ~ b a t e d       14,000
 8. Country gateway fully operational by end of       Full operation

