                                                              97552 September 20, 2010
Bolivia: Decentralized Infrastructure for Rural Transformation Project (IDTR)




 ELECTRICITY ACCESS IN RURAL BOLIVIA

 A Public Private Partnership Brings Light to Households
 in Bolivia's Poorest Areas




Overview
A project backed by the International Development Association (IDA) is providing new
electricity service to an estimated 130,000 people living on the outskirts of cities and in rural
areas of Bolivia through grid extension and installation of solar home systems in individual
homes as well as schools and clinics, reaching some of the poorest people in the country.


Challenge
Only 30 percent of Bolivia's rural population has
access to electricity, the second-lowest level of
access in Latin America. Bolivia is the poorest
country in South America, with gross domestic
product (GDP) per capita f US$4,495 in 2008.
The incidence of poverty in rural areas, where
more than one third of the population lives, is
particularly high, with 82 percent of the
population classified as poor, and 59 percent as
extremely poor. The country's sparse population
(eight people per square kilometer on average),
and low per capita income translate into high
infrastructure costs, particularly in rural areas.
The provision of infrastructure services to rural
Bolivia is therefore a national priority, but also a
comparatively costly one.
Responding to this challenge, in 2003 IDA
approved a US$20-million credit for the
Decentralized Infrastructure for Rural Transformation (IDTR)          More Results
project. The second of its kind in Latin America, the project,
which has been effective since 2005, seeks to expand and
improve the delivery of electricity as a catalyst for the
development of rural areas in Bolivia. It is an integral part of
the government program called "Electricity to Live with
Dignity".
                                                                      130,000
                                                                      people in rural and peri-urban
                                                                      areas of Bolivia have received
                                                                      new electricity service through
Approach                                                              the IDTR project

The project developed an integrated approach to expand
access to electricity in Bolivia's difficult geographical
conditions, by (i) implementing a new model for providing
electricity through installation of solar systems in isolated
rural areas and grid densification in peri-urban areas (usually
                                                                      9,200
                                                                      solar home systems have been
those areas on the outskirts of major towns or cities), (ii)           installed in Bolivia's poorest
putting into place the necessary regulatory framework for              rural areas, benefiting an
                                                                       estimated 45,000 people
sustainable rural electrification and (iii) partnering with World
Bank-managed trust funds to provide technical assistance to
the government for project design and implementation; and
(iv) replicating the IDTR approach in the GPOBA supported
Decentralized Electricity for Universal Access Project, which          MORE INFORMATION
will also pilot provision of "Pico-PV" solar lanterns to the            Project Website
poorest households.
                                                                        Decentralized Infrastructure for
(i) The IDTR approach uses innovative medium-term service          Rural Transformation
contracts to install solar PV systems and provide operation
and maintenance support for four years after installation, to
assist in sustainability and development of the local market.
These medium-term service contracts were awarded through
a process of international competitive bidding in 2005. The
bidding documents established a maximum subsidy (US$650) and minimum number of
systems to install for each area, and contracts were awarded to the bidders who offered the
highest numbers of solar home systems per area. Under the contracts, operators are being
paid against outputs.
(ii) The project also supported the adoption of an adequate regulatory framework, through the
Rural Electrification Regulations adopted in 2005 and the creation of the Office of Technical
Monitoring in 2007, to supervise and regulate the service contracts. The Office of Technical
Monitoring is responsible for monitoring and evaluation, verifying outputs and other contractual
obligations.
(iii) The Project has mobilized support from the Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program to strengthen design and implementation of the activities. An ESMAP study helped
define a model for the dissemination of small solar lanterns ("Pico-PV") for the poorest of rural
families, and financed the provision of just-in-time capacity building to the government by
international experts for the implementation and design of project components.
(iv) The Global Partnership on Output Based Aid is now financing a US$5.2 million grant to
expand the IDTR approach to 7,000 households. It i also provides technical assistance to
design the bidding documents for the solar component of the IDTR.


Results
The project is providing new electricity service to an estimated 130,000 people in rural and
peri-urban areas of Bolivia. In rural, remote areas of Bolivia, where grid electrification is not
economically viable, the project has developed a new model to provide sustainable access to
solar electricity. Since project inception in 2005, more than 9,200 solar home systems have
been installed in the poorest rural areas of Bolivia, benefiting an estimated 45,000 people. In
addition, 87 solar home systems have been installed in schools and clinics, benefiting another
30,000 people. Public lighting has also been provided for 20,000 inhabitants in the large poor
satellite city of the country's capital, El Alto. Approximately 8,000 additional new electricity
connections benefiting an estimated 35,000 people are under construction, as part of an effort
to extend the power grid to consumers that are nearby, but outside, concession obligations.
The project also supported the government's program, "Electricity to Live with Dignity," with two
main results: (i) the adoption of electricity service as a basic human right under the Bolivian
constitution in 2008, (ii) the elaboration of regulations for rural electrification in 2005. In 2007, t
he project also financed the creation the Office of Technical Monitoring - the de-facto regulator
for offgrid rural electrification – under the Vice Ministry of Electricity and Alternative Energy.


Bank Contribution
The IDA is providing a loan of US$20 million for the IDTR Project, out of total costs estimated
at US$32.8million.
The Global Partnership on Output Based Aid (GPOBA) is providing a grant of US$5.2 million
for the installation of about 7,000 solar home systems.
Partners
The project has built partnerships at several levels: (a) with municipalities and prefecturas who
helped indentify beneficiaries and provide co-financing; (b) with the US and Bolivia branches of
the US National Rural Energy Cooperatives Association, which assisted with training and
technical assistance for peri-urban densification; (c) with the German cooperation agency
(GTZ) for the testing and development of a market of small Pico-PVs and for assisting in the
development of a delivery model for the installation of efficient cook stoves; and (d) with the
Lighting Africa initiative regarding the Pico PV component.


Moving Forward

      The second bidding for the grid extension component, which is expected to generate
       7,000 additional connections, has been launched and is under evaluation.

      The Global Partnership on Output Based Aid Decentralized Electricity for Universal
      Access bidding was launched in July 2010.

      The Project will prepare a request for additional financing to further expand the
      provision of service through solar home systems and peri-urban densification of the grid
      to respond to considerable unmet demand and expand the benefits of these systems to
      an even larger group of households.
