Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12638
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1604-TA)
DECEMBER 27, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIV.ALENT
Currencv Unit = Tanzanian Shilling
(at Appraisal Year, 1984)
Tsh. I 0     =  Iss 0 059
LSis I 0     =  Tsh 170
(At Completion Year. 1992 Annual Average)
Tsh 1 0      =  USS 0.003
I.SS 1 0     =  Tsh 300
ABBREVIATIONS
CNG              Compressed Natural Gas
IDA              International Development Association
LNG              Liquified Natural Gas
LPG              Liquid Propane Gas
%1WEM            Mlinistry of Water, Energy & Minerals
PSRP             Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project
SS               Songo Songo
TA               Technical Assistance
TIPER            Tanzania and Italian Refinery Company Limited
TPDC             Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation
MEASUREMENT
km              Kilometer
m               meter
TOE (toe)       tonne of oil equivalent =    39.68 BTU
tonne           metric ton          =      1,000 kilogram (kg), 2,204 6
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July I - June 30
TPDC         Januarv I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
.fice of Director-General
Operacions Evaluation
December 27, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion on Tanzania
Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Proiect (Credit 1604-TA)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Tanzania - Petroleum
Sector Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1604-TA)" prepared by the Africa
Regional Office. No comments were received from the Borrower.
This Technical Assistance project supported a wide range of petroleum
related activities in Tanzania, including: (i) rehabilitation of petroleum
product distribution equipment, including LPG bottles and bottling equipment;
(ii) repair, maintenance and rehabilitation of Songo Songo offshore gas wells to
ensure their continued safety; (iii) the continuation of Tanzania's exploration
promotion  program  to  increase  foreign  investment  in  this  sector;  (iv)
institutional strengthening for Ministry of Energy Petroleum activities; and (v)
studies on gas utilization for Songo Songo gas field and designing a pipeline
distribution system if this proves economically viable.
The exploration promotion component was successful in its efforts to
induce additional foreign investment in petroleum exploration activities;
however, to date no new reserves have been discovered. The project was less than
fully successful in providing equipment to rehabilitate the petroleum product
distribution system, and failed to establish the necessary conditions to use the
LPG gas that is being flared by the refineries.  However, it did implement a
distribution study which led to a further project to rehabilitate the
distribution sector. The Songo Songo gas wells were also successfully repaired,
although only after substantial delays.
The gas utilization studies were inadequate. Further work in this
area is still being carried out, and the Region is currently working on a project
to make economic use of this gas. The PCR states that the institutional support
program has been reasonably successful, although the standard used to reach this
judgement is unclear.
The PCR is comprehensive, except that it fails to identify the
specific revisions made in 1988 to the scope of the project. The performance of
the project is rated as satisfactory, institutional development as partial and
sustainability of the benefits likely. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This docurment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PETROLELUI SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CR 1604-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
P R E F A  C E   ................................................... 
EVALUATION  ....................................................ii
PART  I.   PROJECT  REVIEW   FROM   THE  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                              ......................I
1.  Project   Identitv                                        ..................................................I
2. Project Background .1
Sector Issues and Objectives ...........................1
Institutional and Policy Context ..........................2
3.  project Objectives and Description ...........................3
Project Objectives ..........................3
Project Components. ..........................3
4.  Project Design and Oranization ...........................4
5  Project Implementation ...........................5
6.  Project Results .8..              .................................................................................8
7.  Project Sustainabilitv   ...............                 .....................................................9
8. Bank Performance ................9
Lessons Learnt ...............                                                                    10
9. Borrower Performance ......................... 10
Lessons Learnt: .1........................1
10. Project Relationship ........................                                                          11
I1. Consulting Services ......................... 11
12. Project Documentation and Data ........................ I I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
PART H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                    12
PART HI  STATISTICAL INFORMATION.                                                         13
A.     Table . Related Bank Loans and/or Association Credits                              13
B.     Table 2. Project Timetables                                                        14
C.     Table 3. Credit Disbursement                                                       15
D.     Table 4,Project Implementation                                                     16
E.     Table 5.Project Costs and Financing                                                17
F.     Table 6.Projectr Results                                                           18
G.      Table 7. Status of Covenants                                                      21
H.      Use of Bank Resources                                                             22



i
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CR. 1604-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION PROJECT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance
Project in Tanzania for which IDA Credit 1604-TA in the amount of SDR 8.1 million was approved on
June 6, 1985. The credit was closed on December 31, 1992, three years and six months later than
originallv expected. Disbursements were completed on May 18, 1993 and the remaining balance of SDR
1.79 million will be canceled when the issue of an outstanding amount of US$40,000 from the Special
Account is resolved.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department II of the
African Region (Preface, Summary, Part I and III). On April 2, 1993, the Association sent Parts I and III
to the Beneficiarv with a request to prepare Part II by May 31, 1993, and their reply is awaited.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Association's final supervision of the project in
Aumust. 1992 and is based, inter alia, on information contained in the Issues/Decision Papers, Project Brief,
President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision reports, progress reports,
correspondence between the Association and the Borrower/Beneficiary, internal memoranda and
information gathered in Tanzania.






li
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PETROLEUMI SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CR. 1604-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives.
1.    The project was designed to address key issues in the energy sector which had been identified
during a comprehensive Energv Assessment Review (EAR). Firstly, the project aimed at addressing
immediate concerns relating to product distribution bottlenecks, wastages and protection of the Songo
Songo reservoir. Secondly, the project sought to lay the groundwork for a long term strategy for: (i)
improved efficiencv in the product distribution system; (ii) utilization of Tanzania's indigenous gas
resources; and (iii) maintenance of the private sector exploration effort.  The project also supported
strengthening of institutional capacity (para. 3. 1).
Implementation Experience
2.    The project was implemented over seven years against the appraisal estimate of four years. The
extended implementation period was due to both delays in most of the components as well as modifications
in design in response to changing needs in the sector. The delays in implementation were caused mainly by
processing bottlenecks in the main implementing agency, Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation
(TPDC). These bottlenecks were due to capacity constraints as well as cumbersome decision making
procedures which were intended to ensure transparency (paras. 5.1 to 5.19).
3.    The final total cost of the project was within the appraisal estimate (Part III, Table 5) but with
reallocations as a result of modifications in design. Expenditures on consultants and exploration promotion
were higher than appraisal estimates as a result of the potential identified under the project for exploitation
of the gas reserves and further exploration of the main fields. Expenditures on vehicles and equipment
were less than appraisal estimates because of shortfalls in the Petroleum Distribution Component (paras.
5.3 and 5.4) and cancellation of the Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) component (para. 5.9).
Disbursements under the Credit (Part III, Table 3) were slow throughout the project period reflecting the
delays in implementation.
4.    The project was successful in meeting its objectives, both short and long term. In the Songo Songo
Reservoir, two leaking wells were repaired, and three off-shore wells were provided with the appropriate
protective measures.  Less success was achieved in addressing the product distribution bottlenecks
primarilv because of the magnitude of the constraints in the sector which were highlighted by the
Distribution Study carried out under the project and addressed under a follow-on project (para. 6.1). No
progress was made in reducing wastage of petroleum gas which was being flared because expected
improvements at the refinery (through other sources of financing) were not carried out.
5.    The project was highly successful in its objectives of laying the foundations for a long-term strategv
for the product distribution system, utilization of gas resources and private sector exploration efforts The



ii
distribution studv and a petroleum products pricing study led to the design of the Petroleum Sector
Rehabilitation Project (PSRP) Cr. 2202-TA. The PSRP has been designed to improve the efficiency of the
bulk distribution of petroleum products and reduce the delivered costs. The project also had a major
impact on the strategy for the development of Tanzania's indigenous gas resources. The studies financed
under the project identified the feasibility and prepared the initial designs and costings for the development
of the Songo-Songo Reservoir through a gas pipeline to Dar-es-Salaam and the generation of power for
domestic and export (Kenya) markets. A study on the appropriate institutional framework for the gas sub-
sector was also financed under the project. The findings of the studies are being incorporated into a
proposed Songo-Songo Gas Development Project which is being prepared for potential IDA financing.
6.    The promotion of private sector involvement in exploration was successfully supported under the
project through the acquisition of data, its interpretation and analysis, brochures and promotional meetings.
As a result of these efforts a number of companies initiated or expanded their exploration efforts in
Tanzania (paras. 6.1 to 6.3).
Sustainability
7.    The impact and achievements of all components of the project are expected to be sustainable. Both
the short-term improvements in efficiency and the long-term strategies are either being supported under the
follow-on PSRP or expected to be incorporated in the proposed Songo-Songo Gas Development Project.
The benefits to the Tanzanian economy from these projects and the development of the gas reserves are
expected to be manifold.  The institutional development under the project, is also expected to be
sustainable. Data processing facilities were strengthened on a modest scale and these can be easily
supported from the expected retums to the sector. Training was carried out in an ad-hoc manner but the
fields of study were all clearly linked to requirements in the sector and therefore likely to have a sustainable
impact. (para. 7.1)
Lessons Learnt:
8.    The project experience provided the following three main lessons:
(a)  Client implementation capacity should be carefully evaluated and supervising consultants
appointed for highly technical and/or specialized activities (para. 8.4)
(b) Given the experience with the leaking wells, it would have been useful if some sort of facility
were available to provide quick assistance for emergencies potentially damaging to
development, when other donor financing is not immediately available (para. 8.5).
(c)  The format and required information for monitoring project implementation should be agreed
upon at negotiations and used in implementation. Attention should be paid to ensuring that
the indicators selected are regarded as management tools by project management and that
there is utility in generating the indicators for both the implementing agency and the Bank
(para. 9.4).



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PETROLEU'M SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CR 1604-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.     PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:       Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project
Credit No:          1604-TA
RVP Unit:           Africa
Country:            United Republic of Tanzania
Sector:             Energy
Subsector:          Oil and Gas
2.  PROJECT BACKGROUND
Sector Issues and Objectives
2.1    In 1984 when the project was appraised, Tanzania had no proven petroleum resources, its gas
potential was not yet developed and energy imports were a major drain on its foreign exchange earnings,
therebv hampering the country's overall development. A joint UJNDP/World Bank energy assessment had
been carried out in 1983 and the final reportl provided a comprehensive review of the energy sector in
Tanzania and a set of recommendations for the efficient development of the sector. The major objectives
and recommendations set out in the study were as follows:
(a)  development of indigenous energy sources to stimulate growth and reduce the drain on
foreign exchange earnings,
(b)  increase fuelwood production through improved management and increased plantings;
(c)  improvement in efficiency in the petroleum products subsector in order to ensure availability
of timely and sufficient transport services for the productive sectors, agriculture in particular.
Tanzania - Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, Report No. 4969-TA, November 1984. Joint UNDP/World Bank
Enern- Assessment Program.



2
Institutional and Policy Context
2.2    At the time of appraisal of the project responsibilities for the energy sector were divided among
several agencies. and there were no major changes in those arrangements over the life of the project. The
M5inistry of Water, Energy and Minerals (.MWEM) was responsible for hydrocarbons, electricitv, coal and
uranium. The Ministry of Lands, Natural Resources and Tourism (MLNRT) handled fuelwood.  In
addition to their policy formulation responsibilities, the ministries also supervised the actiVities of the
parastatal organizations under their jurisdiction. In the commercial energy sector, MWETM supervised the
Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), the Tanzania Electric Supply Company
(TAN'ESCO), the State Mining Corporation, and the Rufiji Basin Development Authority
2.3    Within MWEM, energy sector matters were dealt with by the newly created Energy Department in
the Ministrv. The Energy Department was headed by the recently appointed Commissioner for Energy and
Petroleum Affairs, who reported to the Principal Secretary. This Department was responsible for energy
planning and policy development activities2, evaluation of energy projects and monitoring of TPDC's
implementation responsibilities. The Department was divided into four directorates, each of which was
assisted by an external adviser. The establishment of a separate Energy Department and the higher
authority which has been accorded to its head was expected to strengthen MWEM's capacity in discharging
its energy sector responsibilities.
2.4    Responsibilitv for the implementation of Government policies in the petroleum sector was assigned
to TPDC TPDC was established as a parastatal corporation in 1969 with responsibility for: (a) petroleum
exploration and development (on its own account or as joint venturer); (b) purchase, processing and sale of
crude and refined products; (c) coordination of product allocation and marketing; (d) advising on product
pricing; and (e) promotion of industrial projects based on the petroleum sector.
2.5    TPDC used to carry out its responsibilities both directly and through the private sector. By 1984
Government had restricted TPDC's responsibilities to the implementation of Government's policies in
petroleum exploration, development and marketing. Government was looking to the private sector to
provide the financial and technical resources to indertake operational responsibility in these areas. The
project included provision to both strengthen TPDC and facilitate private sector involvement.
2 6    Petroleum exploration was being carried out in Tanzania under production sharing or joint venture
agreements by a number of intemational companies. Refining of imported crude was being carried out by
the jointly owned Tanzanian and Italian Refinery Limited (TIPER) under a long term cost -- plus toll
refining contract with TPDC. Petroleum products were being marketed by five Tanzanian subsidiaries of
international companies. The Government, through TPDC, held a 50% share in two companies while the
others were wholly owned by their respective parent companies. In all cases, management was being
provided by the parent oil company.
2.7    TPDC was therefore involved in a number of activities, and at the time of appraisal measures were
being implemented to strengthen the institutional capacity of TPDC. These measures were based on a
study carried out by the Commonwealth Secretariat with funding under the Second Songo Songo
Petroleum Exploration Project (Credit 1199-TA). A training program for TPDC technical staff was
2 The Enern Assessment Report had recommended the establishment of an Energy Commission, comprising the Principal
Secretaries of the ministries concerned in the energy sector. with a supporting secretariat, to promote sector coordination and
planrung. This recommendation was under consideration within Govermnent at the time of appraisal.



3
underway, financed under Norwegian aid. There was a need, however, to supplement that training
program with specific training for TPDC staff in key analytical areas and provisions for training were
therefore included under the project.
2.8    Pricing and Distribution. The prices of petroleum products were controlled by the Government.
The retail prices of petroleum products (including gas oil) were at least equal to their economic
opportunity costs, delivered in Dar es Salaam. Prices were uniform at the 16 major regional distribution
centers in the country. The price structure provided for freight and equalization funds to reimburse the
marketing companies for transport cost differentials between the regional distribution centers.
2.9    The EAR had also identified a number of inefficiencies in the distribution system for petroleum
products.  These inefficiencies were related to poor equipment, wastages, bottlenecks and the yield
patterns and comparative efficiency of TIPER. The project was therefore designed to include specific
components to deal with these issues.
3.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
3. 1    The project objectives were both immediate and long-term.  Firstly, the project aimed at
addressing immediate sectoral concerns relating to production bottlenecks, wastages and protection of the
Songo Songo reservoir. Secondly, the project sought to lay the groundwork for the development and
implementation of a long term strategy for: (i) the rehabilitation and rationalization of the product
distribution system; (ii) the utilization of Tanzania's indigenous gas resources; and (iii) the maintenance of
the private sector exploration effort. To assist Government in developing and implementing this strategy,
the project also sought to strengthen the technical capability of the newly formed Department of Energy of
MWEM in its supervisory function, and of the national petroleum company (TPDC) as the Government's
principal petroleum sector implementing agency.
Project Components
3.2    The main project components at appraisal were:
Part A       Support to the petroleum  distribution system  through: (i) supply of equipment for
tankers and pumps; (ii) mobile radio equipment; (iii) bottles and related equipment to
market Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) which was being flared at TIPER, and (iv) a
product distribution study to analyze the current system of distribution and storage in
Tanzania and to make recommendations for the overall rationalization and rehabilitation of
the system.
Part B       Support to the domestic gas sector through: (i) the workover and rehabilitation of
onshore Songo Songo Wells SS-3 and -4 to a safe operating condition, and the construction
of platforms and protective structures around offshore Songo Songo Wells SS-5, -7, and 9
to safeguard against seawater corrosion and main collision hazards; (ii) undertaking a gas
utilization study in three phases to evaluate the economic utilization of the Songo Songo
gas for the domestic markets, including: (1) an assessment of the domestic markets in Dar
es Salaam served by a gas pipeline from Songo Songo (for industry, Tiper Refinery and
national grid power generation) and for other markets in transportation, independent power
stations and agribusiness, (2) if justified by the market assessment studv, the preliminary



4
desiga sizing and routing of the Dar es Salaam gas supply system, including distribution:
and (3) the development of an overall strategy for the utilization of Songo Songo gas
reserves, including gas pricing, the identification of financing sources and the formulation of
appropriate institutional arrangements; and (iii) subject to the recommendations of the gas
utilization study. the implementation of a demonstration scheme for the utilization of C.NG
for public transportation in Dar es Salaam and for such other industrial and commercial
users as may be recommended by such study.
Part C       Exploration Promotion through: (i) preparation of an overall exploration promotion
package, in consultation with private sector oil companies, covering prospective areas in the
Coastal Basin, including data gathering assignments by TPDC staff, and the promotion of
exploration in such areas to interested companies; and (ii) financial participation by TPDC
in joint venture programs of speculative seismic data acquisition and exploration studies in
the Coastal Basin for promotion to the oil industry.
Part D       Institutional Development through: (i) strengthening of MWEM to undertake the policv
development and energy sector strategy through the provision of technical assistance, staff
training and equipment, including short term consultancies, workshop facilities, training
programs, data base building and analysis; and (ii) training and managerial assistance to
TPDC staff in the collection, analysis and processing of product marketing and distribution
data and in the monitoring of exploration expenditures.
4.     PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1    The project had a clear conceptual foundation in that it was based on a comprehensive Energv
Assessment Review (EAR) and its objectives of addressing the immediate concerns and laying the
groundwork for a long-term strategy were clearly defined. The project design was consistent with these
objectives, the recommendations of the EAR, and the sectoral priorities (paras. 2.1 to 2.9) The manv
components may appear disjoint but within the overall sector framework, availability of donor financing
and the pressing issues in the sector, design of components was indeed consistent. The revisions in
components during implementation were not design flaws, but responses to changing conditions in a
rapidly evolving sector and were justified.
4.2   It would appear that the project concept and design were understood and shared bv all relevant
parties. The project concept was not particularly innovative, except that in some wavs it was a
troubleshooting operation, responding to emerging needs in a volatile and growing sector.
4.3    The scope and scale of the project were appropriate in relation to its objectives, the priorities and
the capacity in the sector. The project was sufficiently well prepared given its type and purpose. The
timing of the project was also appropriate to the needs in the sector.
4.4    The organizational arrangements for the project were clearly defined and consistent wvith the
responsibilities and organizational arrangements existing in the sector. Since the arrangements followed
well-established and understood institutional arrangements there were no major coordination issues during
project implementation. The project did not attempt to promote major organizational changes such as the
Energy Commission recommended by the EAR report but left it to the consideration of Government (para.
2.3 footnote 2).



5
4.5    The clear objectives, focus. flexibility of design and the organizational arrangements contributed to
the success of the project. Since the objectives of addressing immediate concerns and developing a long
term strategy were clearly defined it was relatively easy to shift funds within the project during
implementation according to priority needs. The minimalist approach to organizational changes was also a
major factor in the success of the project.  The project design gave some attention to institutional
Nveaknesses but the major focus was on developing the productive base of the sector. Given the needs of
Tanzania and the importance of the sector in overall development, this approach appears to have been
appropriate.
4.6    The design of the gas utilization study in phases also proved to be useful . During implementation
there appears to have been some pressure to combine phases but project staff were able to refer to project
design which required clear answers at each stage before proceeding to the next. It was therefore possible
to eliminate the CNG demonstration component early in the process and focus on the pipeline and power
options.
A.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1    Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-Up. The credit became effective on October 9, 1985,
two months behind the original targeted date. The short slippage was caused by the delays in appointing a
local Project Coordinator with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. An IDA supervision
mission was sent out to discuss the matter which was satisfactorily resolved with the appointment of the
originally proposed candidate as an assistant to a more experienced TPDC manager as Project
Coordinator. Unfortunately, disbursements to Tanzania were suspended because of overdue payments, at
the same time as the credit was declared effective and implementation was therefore hampered from the
beginning.
5.2   Implementation Schedule.  A detailed implementation schedule for the components of the
project had been prepared and included in the President Report. Most of the components were expected to
be completed by mid 1987, only the CNG demonstration scheme was expected to continue to October
1988. These projections proved to be far too optimistic as demonstrated in the discussion below of the
implementation experiences of the major components. Due to delays and modifications in design, the
original closing date of June 30, 1989 was extended four times and the project was finally closed on
December 30, 1992. The proceeds of the credit were reallocated three times and the Development Credit
Agreement was amended twice, first in May 1988 and then in September 1991 to respond to the changing
needs in the sub-sector.
Part A. Support to the Petroleum Distribution System
5.3   It had been planned that a study of the product distribution system would be completed by August
1986 and the priority equipment for improving the system would be purchased by April 1987. The study
did not get underway until March 1987 and was completed satisfactorily in June 1987. There appears to
have been numerous delays in the purchase of equipment. Tenders were placed for LPG bottles and
equipment but these were apparently not purchased. Draft tender documents were prepared in February
1986 for spares and equipment for tankers and product pumps but it would appear that it was only in late
1989/early 1990 that two companies were able to purchase distribution equipment. The other companies
were requested to obtain quotations from their suppliers. It is not clear if they availed themselves of the
facility.



6
5.4    A study' on Petroleum Products Pricing Policy was carried out by an internationally recruited
consulting firni the summary was submitted to MWEM in February 1990 and circulated to the petroleum
industrv for comnments. It was determined that the study was of low quality and unusable. The contract
with the firm was therefore abandoned. The study was subsequently completed by MWEM based on
discussions with the private sector and IDA.
Part R Support to the domestic gas sector
(i) Songo-Songo Gas Wells
5.5    Rehabilitation. This sub-component was the most problematic during both preparation and
implementation. It had been planned that the work-over and rehabilitation of the leaking on shore Songo-
Songo Wells (SS3 and 4) which were posing major environmental and safety hazards would be completed
between June and November 1985. Considerable Bank staff effort had been expended on trying to obtain
pre-financing for this activity. It had finally been agreed that this would be financed from an on-going
credit (Cr. 1060-TA) and then refinanced from the credit for this project when it became effective. As it
turned out even though the bid was awarded to an international company in Mav 1985, the contractor did
not arrve in Tanzania until the end of October 1985 (after effectiveness of the project).
5.6   Implementation of the rehabilitation works did not proceed smoothly  Delays were caused by
logistical problems and inadequate supporting facilities which were supposed to have been provided by
TPDC. as well as the performance of the contractor. Work was completed to an acceptable standard in
March 1986, several months behind schedule. According to the evaluation by the external supervising
consultants, the planning by the contractor was inadequate, crucial pieces of equipment were missing,
inappropriate or poor-working pieces of equipment had also been supplied, and there had been delays on
the part of the contractor in addressing the problems. On the basis of this assessment it was decided that in
accordance with the Development Credit Agreement, it was not appropriate to use the credit proceeds to
finance the considerable cost overruns which were being claimed by the contractor. The government was
informed that it should seek altemative sources of financing for the over-runs. The outstanding balances
were never paid and the contractor made representation to the Bank. TPDC offered to go to arbitration to
resolve the issue but the contractor did not follow up.
5 7    Protective structures of off-shore wells (SS5, 7, 9). Subsequent to appraisal, it was determined,
follo,wing an Italian financed study, that the wells would be developed for gas extraction purposes. A short
study was commissioned to examine the need for protective structures (as well as for further work on SS3)
in the light of potential development of the wells, and it was decided that minor temporary measures were
adequate. The sub-component was therefore deleted from the project in the 1988 restructuring exercise.
(ii)    Gas Utilization Study.
5.8    The first phase of this study (on the feasibility of developing the domestic gas market) was
supposed to be completed by October 1986 but it did not get underway until December 1986. The draft
consultant report was evaluated by TPDC as being too general and weak in analysis. Conclusions were
presented without sufficient analysis. After considerable correspondence and dialogue between TPDC and
the consultant. the contract for subsequent phases of the study was canceled in late 1988. TPDC recruited
another firm, wNith Canadian aid funding, to carry-out a subsequent feasibility study of a Songo-Songo/Dar
es Salaam pipeline for development of the gas reservoir. Project funding was then used to finance the first
phase of the basic engineering designs for the pipeline. A study on the optimal location of the terminal



7
depot and offshore unloading facility for the gas pipeline was also satisfactorily carried out by another
consulting firm.
5.9    CNG Demonstration. The first phase of the Gas Utilization Study determined that due to
transportation problems, CNG use was not feasible in the absence of a pipeline from the reservoir to the
main consuming centres. It was decided that CNG use would follow, and not precede, the construction of
a pipeline and the generation of electric power from gas and other industrial uses. This component was
therefore deleted from the project in May 1988.
Part C E&ploration Promotion
(i) Promotion Package
5.10   A contract was awarded to an international consulting firm to compile and interpret geological and
geophysical data and then identify and rank prospective exploration areas.  This assignment was
satisfactorily completed in October 1989 and was followed by successful promotional meetings in London
in November and Houston in December 1989. More than 50 oil companies attended each meeting and
nine companies expressed interest in exploring for oil in Tanzania.
(ii) Seismic Data Acquisition
5.11   Seismic Data Acquisition for the Lindi Mtwara field commenced in August 1989 and was
satisfactorily completed by the contractor in January 1990.
Part D. Institutional Development
5.12   Institutional arrangements in the sector were complex (paras. 2.2 to 2.9) and there were a number
of ongoing studies and training programs (para. 2.7), the project component was therefore designed to
only supplement ongoing activities. As a result there was no clearly defined institutional development plan
or training program. A number of staff from TPDC, TIPER and MWEM were trained under the project.
The selection of fields of study and of candidates appears to have been ad hoc and it is not clear how the
training fitted into the overall program. The fields of study were all useful areas to the sector but whether
or not these were the pressing priorities cannot be determined. Most of the courses were short-term (a few
weeks); given the weaknesses, rapid growth and changing conditions in the sub-sector, some medium term
training (3 months to I year) in sector policy and management should have been included under the
project. Presumablv long-term (degree) training was being financed by other donors.
5.13   The project also financed some computer equipment and software to improve analytical capacity
and management in MWEM and TPDC. Project costs had included provision for an internationally
recruited project coordinator but after discussions between the Bank and Government (para. 5.1) an
experienced TPDC management staff was assigned to the positions supported by an Assistant Project
Coordinator. This arrangement appears to have worked well but could perhaps have been more effective
as a management training approach if a management development program (including training and
increasing responsibilities) had been defined for the Assistant.
5.14   Two long term technical assistance (TA) positions were financed under the project.  Both
candidates had been working in-country under contracts with other donors.  IDA financing for the
continuation of their contracts was requested by the project authorities on the basis of the need for their
skills and their performance. One of the TA provided technical support in paleontology and was also
involved in the training of staff The other TA provided managerial and coordination support in petroleum



8
policy and processing matters. Given their previous involvement in the subsector both advisors performed
satisfactorily under the project.
5. 15   Disbursements. The estimated and actual disbursement of the credit is shown in Part III, Table 3.
A total of SDR 6.31 million (approx. US$8.0 million) was disbursed, and the remaining balance of SDR
1.79 million will be canceled w hen the outstanding issue of US$40,000 from the Special Account is
resolved. Disbursements were much slower than expected because of delays in implementation (well
rehabilitation and equipment purchase) and the cancellation of components which were overtaken by
events.
5.16   Project Costs. The total project cost over the original four year implementation period had been
estimated at US$1 1.0 million at appraisal, with a foreign exchange component of US$8.0 million or 73%.
The local costs of US$3.0 million were to be financed by TPDC (US$2.9 million), and Government of
Tanzania (US$0.1 million). Actual costs over the seven year implementation period of about US$1 1.0
million, were consistent with these estimates, details on costs and financing are in Part III Table 5.
5.17   Procurement. Procurement procedures generally followed Bank Guidelines and there were no
major problems. The process appears to have been slow but apparently was consistent with Government's
approach to ensuring transparencv. There was one procurement complaint during implementation by a
bidder whose bid arrived late. The complaint was dealt with promptly by the project authorities and was
proven unfounded since there had been public bid opening with several independent witnesses.
5.18   Project Risks. Two risks were foreseen at appraisal. The small risk of an explosion during
rehabilitation of wells 3 and 4 did not materialize. There were problems during implementation but the
necessary precautions were taken. The supervising consultants were thorough and diligent about all
aspects of implementation - equipment, communications, staff (including rest periods) catering and
emergency care on the island.
5.19   The second risk of limited impact of the product distribution measures did prove to be tangible but
as foreseen at appraisal the problems were addressed outside the project through a larger program under
the PSRP and Government's infrastructure program which improved the road networks.
6.     PROJECT RESULTS
6.1    The project was successful in meeting its objectives, both short and long term. The leaking wells
were repaired, and the off-shore wells were provided with the appropnrate protective measures. Less
success was achieved in addressing the product distribution bottlenecks partly because of delays in
implementation but primarily because of the magnitude of the constraints in the sector which were
highlighted by the Distribution Study carried out. The findings of the study led to the design of the
Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2202-TA) which was approved on January 15, 1991. The
project had little impact in reducing wastage of petroleum gas which was being flared. Tenders were
placed for equipment (para. 5.3) but the program was never launched because improvements which were
planned at the refinery (with other sources of funding) were not carried out.
6.2    The project was highly successful in its objectives of laying the foundations for a long-term
strategy for the product distribution system, utilization of gas resources and private sector exploration
efforts (para. 3.1). As mentioned above the petroleum study led to the design of the Petroleum Sector
Rehabilitation Project (PSRP) w-hich was also supported by the petroleum products pricing study which
was carried out under the project. The PSRP has been designed to improve the efficiency of the bulk



9
distribution of petroleum products and reduce the delivered costs. The project also had a major impact on
the strategy for the development of Tanzania's indigenous gas resources. The studies financed under the
project identified the feasibility and prepared the initial designs and costings for the development of the
Songo-Songo Reservoir through a pipeline to Dar-es-Salaam and the generation of power for domestic and
export (Kenya) markets. A study on the appropriate institutional framework for the gas sub-sector was
also financed under the projects. The findings of the studies have been incorporated into the proposed
Songo-Songo Gas Development Project which is being prepared for potential IDA financing.
6.3    The promotion of private sector involvement in exploration was successfully supported under the
project. The project played a major role in attracting private sector interest through the acquisition of data,
its interpretation and analysis, preparation of promotion of brochures and promotional meetings in London
and Houston. As a result of these meetings a number of companies initiated or expanded their exploration
efforts in Tanzania.
7.     PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.1    Given its nature and design there are no major recurrent cost implications directlv associated with
the project. The impact and achievements of all components are expected to be sustainable. Both the
short-term improvements in efficiency and the long-term strategies are either being supported under the
follow-on PSRP or expected to be included in a proposed Songo-Songo Gas Development Project. The
benefits to the Tanzanian economv from the projects and the development of the gas reserves are expected
to be manifold. Even the weakest of the project components, institutional development, is expected to be
sustainable. Data processing facilities were strengthened on a modest scale and these can be easily
supported from the expected returns to the sector. Training was carried out in an ad-hoc manner but the
fields of study were all clearly linked to requirements in the sector and therefore likely to have a sustainable
impact.
8. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.1    Bank performance was satisfactory  Bank staff expended commendable efforts in trying to obtain
funding for rehabilitation of the on-shore wells (SS3 and 4) which were posing safety and environmental
hazards. Donors were approached without success, alternative IDA funding mechanisms (existing projects
and the project preparation facility) were explored and refused by Government authorities or 1DA
management. It was only after persistent efforts and intervention of the Vice President for Africa Region
with the Tanzanian authorities that funding was obtained from Cr. 1060-TA for financing of the initial
expenses for rehabilitation.
8.2    The project was adequately prepared (given its nature), terms of references for major studies and
the project coordination along *ith a detailed implementation schedule were prepared and discussed at
negotiations. There was initially close follow-up on effectiveness and implementation but this decreased as
other developments (such as the PSRP) evolved in the sector. Supervision effort was adequate but there
should have been more emphasis on project reporting on implementation progress and on institutional
development during implementation. It is recognized that productive capacity was the clear priority for the
sub-sector but more attention should have been paid to training and man-power development in MWEM
and TPDC, even if thev were being financed by other donors.



10
8.3   In retrospect, given the problems experienced in the rehabilitation of SS3 and 4, with the
contractor as well as the technical problems which arose, the Bank should have foreseen the need to
appoint supervising consultants. It was only after the contract had been awarded that TPDC made a
request for the financing of supervisory consultants to which the Bank agreed, on condition that it was
confined to one firm to cover all aspects. Some of the problems encountered would perhaps have been
avoided if the supervising consultants had been involved in bid preparation and evaluation as well as in the
drafting of the contract.
Lessons Learnt
8.4    The project experience highlights the need for careful and realistic assessment of client
implementation capacity and the limitations of large bureaucracies in responding to emergencies. Client
implementation capacity should be assessed early in the preparation process, for the project as a whole and
for each component (especially when highly specialized technical skills are involved). Implementation or
supervision responsibility for each component or sub-component should be clearly identified and an
assessment made of the agency, department or staff responsible. Such a detailed approach would help in
identifying, more clearly than a global approach, the need for specialized technical assistance and or
supervising consultants.
8.5    The experiences with the wells, including the bureaucratic bottlenecks (in country and in the Bank)
and the amount of staff time and resources expended in trying to obtain financing, indicate that it would
have been useful to have a facility for the various types of emergencies which arise and for which other
donor financine is not iumediately available.
9.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.1    Borrower response to the environmental and safety hazards of the on-shore wells (SS3 and 4) was
less than satisfactory, Even though the Bank/IDA had not been involved in the construction of the wells, it
spent considerable effort in seeking funding for rehabilitation (para. 5.5). The Goveimnent agencies
concemed initiallv refused to cooperate with the proposal (which had been endorsed by IDA/Bank
Management after much effort) to finance the rehabilitation from Cr. 1060. Despite repeated interventions
at the Director level, the matter was not resolved until the Bank's Vice-President intervened. This should
not have been necessary, the problem should have been resolved by the Ministry of Finance or the Cabinet
as soon as it emerged.
9.2    Performance by the agencies directly involved in the project was adversely affected by the
institutional framework and implementation capacity (paras. 2.2 to 2.7 and 5.17). Implementation delays
were more marked in some components than others, reflecting perhaps the priority attached by TPDC in
developing the gas resources rather than in addressing inefficiencies in the petroleum refining and
distribution sectors. Obligations for local costs funding were fulfilled. There were some delays and
shortfalls in TPDC's contributions for the rehabilitation of the wells SS3 and 4 (para. 5.6).
9.3    There were some initial delays in complying with audit covenants but these were remedied and
project accounts were brought up to date, including the audits of the special accounts and use of local
proceeds from the sale of equipment. Reporting on project implementation was weak, no comprehensive
progress reports were ever submitted, only three quarterly reporting telexes were found on file.



11
Lessons Learnt:
9.4    The format and required information for monitoring implementation should be agreed upon at
negotiations and used in implementation. Attention should be paid to ensuring that the indicators selected
are regarded as management tools by project management and that there is utility in generating the
indicators for both the implementing agency and the Bank.
10.    PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
10.1   The relationship between the Bank and the implementing agencies was good throughout the
project and this contributed to the smooth implementation of the project. There were no major differences
of opinions.  Queries from  the Bank on procurement procedures were answered promptly and
satisfactorily.
11.    CONSULTING SERVICES
11.1   Consultants' performance under the project was mixed. Details are presented in the discussion on
implementation. Consultants plaved major roles in the implementation of the project and most assignments
were satisfactorily carried out. Two studies were considered inadequate (paras. 5.4 and 5.8) and the
consultant contracts were terminated. The problems with the contractor for the rehabilitation of the wells
are discussed in para. 5.6.
12.    PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.1   The Presidents Report, Legal Documents and Working papers (mainly terms of references) were
well prepared and appropriate to the project.
12.2   There are gaps in the data on implementation. There were no annual or semi-annual progress
reports, only a few quarterly telexes available in the project file. A project completion report has not yet
been prepared by the Borrower. More detailed supervision reports, at least once a year, on overall status
and progress of the various components would have been useful for preparing the PCR.



12
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CR. 1604-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No comments were received from the Borrower.



13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CR. 1604-TA)
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title               Purpose                Year of        Status and
Approval       Comments
Songo Songo Petroleum    Finance the first phase of a       1980     Completed in
Exploration Project     drilling program designed to                  1991.
Cr.S027-TA (US$ 30 M)  assist the Borrower in the
assessment of the hydrocarbon
potential of the Songo Songo field
area and strengthen the capability
of MWEM in the energy sector.
Second Songo Songo      Finance the second phase of a       1982     Completed in
Petroleum Exploration   drilling program designed to                  1991.
Project                 assist the Borrower in the
Cr. 1199-TA (US$ 20 M)  assessment of the hydrocarbon
potential of the Songo Songo
field.
Petroleum Sector        Improve the efficiency of the bulk  1991     On going.
Rehabilitation          distribution of petroleum products
Cr.2'02-TA (US$ 30 M)  and reduce the delivered cost.
Proposed Songo Songo    Develop Tanzania's gas reserves     n.a.     Initial Executive
Gas Development         for power generation; explore the            Project Summary
Project                 potential of exporting power                 was issued in
generation to Kenya; promote the             February 1992.
role of private investors; assist in
establishing the institutional and
regulatory framework and
appropriate pricing and cost
recovery policies of the gas
sector.



1 4
Table 2. Project Time Table
Item               Date Planned           Date Revised           Date Actual
Identification                                                            July 1984
Preparation                                                              October 1984
Appraisal                 December 1984                                November 1984
Negotiation                 April 1985                                    April 1985
Board Approval              June 1985                                    June 6,1985
Signature                   July 1985                                    July 11,1985
Effectiveness              August 1985                                  October 9,1985
Completion              December 31,1988       December 31,1989       December 31.1992
December 31,1990
December 31,1991
December 31,1992
Closing                    June 30,1989          June 30, 1990        December 31,1992
October 31, 1991
June 30, 1992
December 31, 1992



15
Table 3. Disbursement (US$ million)
Year           Appraisal Estimate         Actual            Actual as % of
Annual Cumulative    Annual Cumulative      Appraisal Estimate
1986            4.0     4.0           2.4     2.4                30
1987            2.5     6.5           0.3     2.7                34
1988            1.0    7.5             0     2.7                 34
1989            0.5     8.0           1.8    4.5                 56
1990                                  2.2     6.7                84
1991                                  0.3     7.0                88
1992                                  0.6     7.6                95
1993                                  0.4     8.0'              100
'(Equivalent of SDR 6.31 million from the original credit of SDR 8.10 million



16
Table 4. Project Implementation
Indicators               Appraisal Estimate                Actual
Product Distr. Equip.             Nov.85 to Apr.87       Tender documents were
prepared in Feb. 1986 but not
much progress in late
1989/early 1990. Two
companies received some
equipment.
Product Distr. Study              Nov.85 to Aug.86       Mar.87 to Jun.87
Petroleum Pricing Study                                  Dec.89 to Sep.90
Wells SS-3/4 Rehab.               Jun.85 to Nov.85       Oct 85 to Mar 86
Wells SS-5/7/8 Prot.              Oct.85 to Mar.86       Component was considered no
longer necessary in light of
further development of SS
field. Temporary navigational
aids were installed in 1989.
Gas Utilization Study             Nov.85 to Oct.86       Dec.86 to Sep.88 a/
CNG Demonstration Scheme          Nov.86 to Oct.88       Canceled in May 1988.
Exploration Prom.                 Nov.85 to Oct.86       Jan.89 to Oct.89
Seis. Acqsn/Expir. Study          Nov.85 to Feb.86       Aug.89 to Jan.90
Institutional Deve.               Nov.85 to Dec.86       Nov.85 to Dec.92
a/    Contract was canceled and subsequent phases completed with Canadian aid financing.



17
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs and Financing (US$ million))
Sources              Appraisal Estimate        Revised         Actual a/
Local  Foreign  Total        1991              1992
IDA
1.Civil Works                     2.6                   2.1               1.8
2. Equip.Veh.& Materials           2.7                  1.0              0.5
3. Studies                         0.7                  0.9               1.0
4. Consultant & Training           0.6                  1.4               2.5
5. TPDC Participation in                                                            l
Exploration Programs             0.3                  1.5               2.2
6. Unallocated                     1.1                  1.1                -
IDA Total                  8.0   8.0             8.0               8.0
Government of Tanzania     0.1    -    0.1              0.1              0.1
TPDC                       2.9    -    2.9              2.9              2.9
Total             3.0    8.0  11.0             11.0             11.0
a/    Estimated.
B. Project Financing by IDA (SDR million)
Category             Appraisal estimate        Actual          -
1. Civil Works                       2.6                   1.4
2. Equip.Veh.& Materials             2.7                   0.4
3. Studies                           0.7                   0.8
4. Consultant & Training             0.6                   2.0
5. TPDC Participation in
Exploration Programs               0.3                   1.7
6. Unallocated                       1.2
Total                     8.1                  6.3



18
Table 6. Project Results
A. Physical Benefits
Indicators                 Appraisal Estimate            Actual
No. of road tankers back in operation             40          Only about 25 percent of
the original allocated
No. of retail & consumer product pumps            55          proceeds of the credit were
back in operation                                  used for this component.
Rehabilitation of well SS-3/4                                 Completed
Construction of protective platforms for well                 It was decided that
SS-517/91                                          temporary navigational aids
were sufficient and the
component was deleted.



19
B. Studies
Title                Purpose               Status              Impact
Product         Analyze distribution and      Completed   Examined various economic
Distribution    storage systems, and make     in 1987.    options to satisfy the
Studv           recommendations for the                   petroleum product
overall rationalization and              requirement in Tanzania.
rehabilitation of the system.
Gas Utilization    Evaluate the economic      Completed   Concluded that CNG
Study           utilization of the Songo Songo   in 1987.    demonstration for use in
gas for the domestic market.             transport sector, in the
absence of a gas pipeline, is
not an economic alternative.
Protective                                    Completed
Structures for                               in 1987.
Off-shore Wells
Petroleum       Examine the petroleum supply   Completed   Concluded to effectively
Supply and      and distribution system in   in 1987.    remove petroleum product
Distribution    Tanzania and provide                      distribution network
Study           recommendations.                          constraints in the country,
various aspects of the
petroleum trade must be
improved and rehabilitated.
Contributed to design of
PSRP.
Petroleum       Determine petroleum potential   Completed   Provided detailed information
Exploration     in Tanzania.                  in          about 7 prospective
Potential                                     11/1989.    sedimentary basins.
Petroleum       Review and make               Completed   Contributed to design of
Products Pricin2  recommendations on         in 1990      PSRP.
Policv          improving pricing policies.
Feasibility     Undertake a feasibility study of  Completed   Recommended TPDC proceed
Studv of Soneo   constructing and operating a  in 7/1991.  immediately with the design
Songo. Dar es    pipeline system to supply                and construction of a 273-mm
Salaamn Gas     Songo Songo gas from landfall             carbon steel gas pipeline with
Supply System    at Kilwa Kivinje to markets in           2.16 MJ/s to service the
Dar es Salaam.                           industrial and power
generation markets in Dar es
Salaam. Contributed to
design of proposed SS
Development Project.



20
Son,o Soneo      Determine the technical and   Completed   Concluded the field can
Gas Reservoir    economic feasibility of       in 1/1991.   produce 100 MMscf/d plus
Study            developing the field to supply             fuel gas for 20 years,
a fertilizer plant and to supply           sufficient to supply 65
gas to Dar es Salaam.                      MMscf/d to fertilizer plant
and 35MMscf/d to Dar es
Salaam.



21
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Reference                 Covenants                                Status
Credit Agreement
2.02 (b)    The borrower shall open and maintain a    Compliance.
special account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
3.01 (a)    The Borrower declares its commitment to   Compliance.
the objectives of the Project.
3.04 (a)    The Borrower shall carry out the Gas     Compliance.
Utilization Study in three phases: (i)
consolidate existing gas utilization studies;
(ii) a study to supplement existing market
studies. (iii) a study to prepare a detailed
strategv for the optimal utilization of
natural gas.
Project Agreement
2.05        TPDC shall open an Project Account.      Compliance. TPDC opened a special
Account with the Citibank in New
York.
3.03        TPDC shall take out and maintain proper   Compliance.
insurance.
3.04        TPDC shall inspect and maintain in a safe   Compliance.
operating condition all Songo Songo wells
and related facilities.
4.01 (a)    TPDC shall maintain records and          Compliance. Audited financial reports
and (b)     accounts, and furnish audited financial  from 1985 to 1991 were submitted.
documents.
Schedule 2   TPDC shall submit monthly and quarterly   Only three telexes on progress were
progress reports.                       found in the project file.



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Project Cycle    1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989        1990      1991      1992      1993
Preappraisal     20.4       26.6
Appraisal                   45.4
Negotiation                  1.0
Supervisioni                           23.2       21.9        16.2       6.8        7.1        3.5       6.0       1.6
Total        20.4       73.0       23.2       21.9        16.2       6.8         7.1       3.5       6.0       1.6



23
B. Missions
Project     Month/    No. of   Days in   Specialization    Performance    Types of
Cycle       Year      Persons    Field    Represented a/  Rating Status   Problems
b/           c/
Preparation   9/1984        1       n. a.         PE
Appraisal     11/1984      5         21     F, PE, P, I., G
Supervision    10/1985     3         5        Eco, PE, F          1
Supervision    12/1985     2         2                          n.a.*         p
Supervision   6/1986       3                    PS, PE,         n.a.*
Supervision    11/1986      1        5           Geo            n.a.*
Supervision   3/1987        1       n.a.          F               1
Supervision    10/1987     3         8        Eco, F, Geo         1
Supervision   7/1988       3        20 d/     Eco, PE, F         2            M
Supervision    11/1988     *
Supervision   3/1990       1        9 dl      Eco, PE, F         2            M
Supervision   7/1991       2         4          F, PE            2           M, L
Supervision    10/1991     3        7 d/      F, PE, Eco         2            M
Supervision   8/1992       1        5 d/          Fn.a.*
a/    Eco=Economist, F=Financial Analyst, G=Gas Specialist, Geo=Geologist,
I= Institution Strengthening Specialist, P=Petroleum Specialist, PE=Petroleum Engineer
b/    I = Minor problems, 2 = Moderate problems, 3 = Major problems
c/    L =Legal, M = Management, P = Procurement
d/    Combined with preparation/supervision of Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project.
*     No Form-590 in project file.



