Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4013-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
0O- THEE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 8.1 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 10, 1985
This docoume  has a resticted disd trib   and im  be wed by recipient ony in te perforunuce of
hdr offidl duis. Its cotenot    not herwise be died wthou Word Dak authorizat.



-CURlBCT EQUIVALENTS 8/
Currency Unit - Tanzania shilling (TSh)
TSh  1.00  -  US$0.06
USS  1.00  - TSh 17.0
US$  1.00  - SD8 .9912730
AURREVIATIONS
BP                 British Petroleum
Caltex             Caltec Oil Corporation
CIF                Cost, insurance and freight
CNG                Compressed Natural Gas
ENI                Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi
EPDC               Engineering & Pover Development Consultants
IDA                International Development Association
IEDC               Intermntional Energy Development Corporation
IFC                International Finance Corporation
KOPEC              Kuwait Overseas Petroleum Exploration Company
LNG                Liquified Natural Gas
LPG                Liquid Propane Gas
HLNRT              Ministry of Lands, Natural Resources &
Tourism
HIRT               Ministry of NaturaL Resources & Tourism
HlmU               Ministry of Water, Energy & Minerals
NPD                Norwegian Petroleum Directorate
NTIC               Narional Transport C. rporation
Ss                 Songo Songo
TAIESCO            Tanzania Eleetric Supply Company
Tazara             Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority
Tiper              Tanzania and Italian Refinery Company Limited
TIRDO              Tanzania Industrial Research and
Development Organization
TPDC               Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation
TrC                Tanzania Railway Corporation
UNIDO              United Nations industrial Development
Organization
BCF        Billion Cubic Feet
BTU (Btu) British thermal unit       -  0.252 kilocalories
CF         cubic foot                 -  0.02832 Cubic Meter
Cuh        Gigawatt-hour              -  1,000,000 kilowatt-hours (kWh)
kgoe       kilograms of oil equivalent
km        Kilometer                   -  0.62 miles - 1,000 meters
lb/hr      nounds/hour
n          meter
m3         cubic meter                -  6.289 barrels
mefd      thousand cubic feet/day
MMCF       million cubic feet
mmcfd      million cubic feet/day
mt         metric tonnes
MW         Megawatt                  -  1,000 Kilowatts (KU)
TCF       Trillion cubic feet
TOE (toe) tonne of oil equivalent   -  39.68 million BTU
tonne     metric con                 -  1,000 kilogram (kg); 2,204.6
pound (lb)
Tpd (tpd)  tonnes per day
tpy (Tpy) tonnes per year
FISCAL TEAR
Government:  July 1 - June 30
TPDC:         January 1 - December 30
/ AS the Tanzania shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket
of the currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the USDollarlTanzania
shilling echanige rate is suba ect to change. A rate of USS 1.00 - TSh
17.0, which was the level set in the moSt recent exchange rate
adjustmenc of June 1984, was used for appraisal of this project. The
'USDoLlar/SDL exchange rate used in this report is that of March 31,
1985.



FOR OMCLCAL USE ONLY
- i -
TANZANIA
Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiary:         Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM) and
Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC)
Amount:              A credit of SDR 8.1 million (US$8.0 million
equivalent)
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    The proceeds of the Credit would be passed on to TPDC
initially as a Government advance, to be later
converted into a loan or equity.
Project              The proposed project would address immediate sectoral
Description:         concerns, including product distribution bottlenecks
and the protection of the Songo Songo reservoir. In
the longer-term, the project lays the groundwork for
the rehabilitation and rationalization of the petroleum
product distribution system and for the development of
a strategy for the utilization of Tanzania's indigenous
gas resources. The proposed credit would finance:
(a) provision of inputs for the petroleum distribution
system, and a study to analyze and make recommendations
to improve the system; (b) the workover, rehabilitation
and protection of the Songo Songo gas wells, a gas
utilization study to evaluate the gas for domestic
markets including a compressed natural gas feasibility
study and a pilot scheme; (c) preparation of an
exploration promotion package, and a TPDC minority
share in a venture program of speculative seismic data
acquisition and exploration study for promotion to the
oil industry; and (d) technical assistance, staff
training and related equipment for MWEM and TPDC
institutional development
Risks:               Project risks include the small possibility of an
explosion at Wells SS-3/4 during the rehabilitation,
although every reasonable precaution would be taken.
The improvements expected from product distribution
measures to transportation of agricultural inputs and
crops may be limited by the deteriorating condition of
roads and of road and rail stock. In the longer term,
this risk would be mitigated to a large extent by the
Government's proposed development program which places
increased priority on the rehabilitation of
infrastructure.
This document has a resticted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost Estimates                         Local       Foreign     Total
---US$ '000 Equivalent--
Part A. Petroleum Product Distribution
a)  Product Distribution Equipment    490             530    1,020
b)  Product Distribution Study           18          126       144
Part B. Domestic Gas Utilization
a) Songo Songo Well Rehabilitation
and Protection                   640         2,600    3,240
b)  Gas Utilization Study               220          530       750
c)  CNG Demonstration Scheme            490        1,980    2,470
Part C.  Exploration Promotion                   175           580       755
Part D.  Institutional Development               224           168       392
Project Coordination                              48           336       384
Base Cost                                 2,305         6,850    9,155
Contingencies
Physical                                  231           685      916
Price                                     464          465       929
Total Project Cost a/                          3,000         8,000   11,000
Financing Plan:  Source                        Local       Foreign     Total
- - US5'000 Equivalent
IDA                                           -           8,000    8,000
Government of Tanzania                        100           -        100
TPDC                                        2,900           -      2,900
Total                                     3,000         8,000   11,000
Estimated Disbursements:    IDA  FY          1986      1987     1988      1989
Annual (US$ million)                       4.0       2.5      1.0      0.5
Cumulative                                 4.0      6.5       7.5       8.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: No separate report.
Maps: IBRD 17580Q1
IBRD 17582R1
a/ Including taxes and duties of US$0.42 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A-PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
*  1.     I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 8.1 million (US$8.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Petroleum
Sector Technical Assistance Project. These funds would be passed on to the
Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) initially as a Government
advance, to be later converted to a loan or equity.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic memorandum on Tanzania (Report No. 5019-TA), based on
the work of an economic mission which visited the country in September/
October 1983, was issued in August 1984. This section is based on that
economic memorandum, with subsequent updating. A summary of social and
economic data is in Annex I.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961, Tanzania was one of the poorest
countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence agriculture
and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest industrial base,
which accounted for less than 5% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and a
very small number of educated and trained personnel. For the first six
years after Independence, the Government's development objectives resembled
those of many other less developed countries, stressing growth in per
capita income and national self-sufficiency in skilled manpower, based on
market forces and capital intensive agricultural projects. This approach
had a number of drawbacks, such as high investment costs in the
agricultural sector. It led, in the Government's view, to unacceptable
economic and social conditions, such as widening income differentials and
unequal opportunities for advancement in the rural areas. In response to
this situation, the national development strategy was reassessed in 1967.
The new priorities, enunciated in the Arusha Declaration and related policy
statements, were directed toward establishing a socialist society, with
emphasis on broad-based rural development, self-reliance in development
efforts, and mass education. To accomplish these ends, the State, with
guidance from the Party, was expected to play the leading role, especially
in the reform and creation of appropriate institutions. This led in the
late 1960s to the nationalization of large-scale industry, commerce and
finance, the creation of numerous parastatal bodies, the formation of
ujamaa (cooperative) villages, the decentralization of Government (1972),
and the mass campaign of villagization (1974-76).



-2-
4.        Despite some disruption arising from these major inatitutional
changes during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvements both in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance. Since Independence,
primary school enrollment increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose
by almost 5 years, and access to safe water increased ii both the rural and
urban areas. GDP grew by 4.4X per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment
averaged 241 of GDP from 1970 to 1973, and domestic resource mobilization
improved with recurrent revenues rising as a proportion of GDP from 151 in
1967/68 to 19% in the mid-1970s. However, the productive sectors grew
slowly and the rate of return on new investments (which-were concentrated
on the industry and transport sectors) was poor. Perhaps the principal
disappointment was in agriculture, the dominant sector of the economy,
which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to 1973. Growth was also
uneven among regions and precluded any narrowing of rural-urban income
differentials.  Tanzania made rapid progress toward the Africanization of
key posts in the economy, but large gaps in manpower requirements
remained. Dependence on foreign aid to finance both domestic investment
and the wideaing balance of payments gap also increased. By 1973, the
issues that were to be so important for Tanzania throughout the later 1970s
and early 1980s were becoming clear. How quickly could.a country with
limited trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally
administered economy? How long could the country afford the costs, in
terms of efficiency and incentives, often resulting from the Government's
emphasis on equity? What could be done to improve the growth rate of the
monetized, productive sectors?
5.        The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years cf below average rainfall in Tanzania, which had a detri-
mental effect on agricultural production. Agricultural production also was
affected by disruptive changes in the rural areas at this time (decentrali-
zation and villagization), and foodgrain production was reduced. The
Government was forced into the world market, making large purchases of
foodgrains for cash. Export crop production also fell during this period
and the barter terms of trade dropped by about one-third during these two
years.  As a result, the current account deficit rose from US$118 million
in 1973 to around US$340 million in both 1974 and 1975. Domestically, the
recurrent budget fell into deficit and Gcvernment bank borrowing rose from
TSh 416 million in 1973/74 to TSh 1,061 million in 1975/76.
6.        The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the
short-term effects of the crisis and received some assistance from the IMF
and a program loan from the Bank Group. Under the Government program,
import levels were tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government devel-
opment expenditures were redirected towards the productive sectors, and the
Tanzanian shilling was devalued by 102 against the SDR.  Producer prices
for food crops were substantially increased and, at the same time, the
National Milling Corporation (NMC) was instructed to purchase a number of
drought-resistant crops such as cassava, sorghum, and pigeon peas in addi-
tion to the usual foodgrains like maize. While these steps were taken to
increase food production, they also discouraged the production of export
crops, weakened the financial position of NKC, and required the banking
system to extend large amounts of credit to NMC. Aside from the devalua-
tion, little scope was given to market forces and Tanzania made no basic
changes in its system of administered prices and government controls. The



3
basic weaknesses of the economy persisted -- declining export volumes,
limited trained manpower, disappointing growth in the monetized and produc-
tive sectors, and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and infra-
structure, especially in agriculture and transport.
7.        Nonetheless, the Government program, boosted greatly by the
coffee boom of 1977, additional foreign assistance, and reasonable weather
for agriculture, was able to keep the economy in balance until 1978.
During 197t, the overly stringent import controls were relaxed at the same
time as the terms of trade began to deteriorate again. The balance of
payments went into deficit and foreign reserves were drawn down. Then, in
October 1978, the country was invaded by forces from Uganda. The resulting
war, the oil price increases of 1979, and the flooding and drought in
different parts of Tanzania led to a worsening balance of payments deficit.
The Government built up major arrears on its import payments for the first
time since Independence. The domestic budget fell heavily into deficit as
expenditures (led by defense) rose by 50% and revenues improved by only 1OZ
from 1977/78 to 1978/79. As a result, Government borrowing from the
banking system increased from TSh 600 million in 1977/78 to more than TSh
3,000 million in 1978/79. Such borrowing was the major factor in money
supply growth, which exceeded 53X in this period.
8.        The economy became troubled by major problems of falling
production in agriculture and industry and declining factor productivity.
In the mid 1970s, average GDP and per capita income growth rates were
similar to those of other Sub-Saharan African countries. The average GDP
grew by 5.2Z per annum between 1970 and 1978. With population growing at
3.3% annually, per capita GDP increased at an average rate of about 2%
annually. Between 1978 and 1980, growth in aggregate output slowed to 3.3%
per annum. In 1981, falling agricultural and industrial production caused
GDP to decline by 1.7%; the rate of decline accelerated to 3.2% in 1982.
Output in subsistence agriculture and manufacturing, which had experienced
high growth rates of 6% to 7% per annum before 1978, fell by 8% and 16.6%
per annum respectively over the next four years, while output in the
services sector continued to grow steadily. The services sector, which
accounted for only 9% of value added in 1966, now accounts for more than
25%. Output in the services sector reflects remuneration rather than
output, and trends in subsistence production are at best guess-estimates
with potentially large margins of error. For these reasons, trends in the
rate of growth of GDP are in some doubt, but the shift away from a monetary
to an informal economy is confirmed by the decline in the share of output
marketed through official channels.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic
savings or in the return on investments. Up to the mid-1970s, foreign
savings had financed 20-40% of domestic investment. However, the depen-
dence on foreign savings rose sharply to more than 6U% of domestic invest-
ment during the crisis years of 1974-75 and again from 1978. The major
shortfalls in domestic savings have occurred in the Government sector,
where they have actually been negative in some years since 1975.
lU.         Agriculture remains the most important sector in Tanzania,
accounting for 83% of total employment, 45% of GDP, and 8U% of exports.



- 4 -
The long-term trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept
pace with population growth and apparently has fallen in more recent years
as the initial expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s)
has been reversed. This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by
the limitations of the natural environment. Although the importance of
rural development has continuously been highlighted in Government state-
ments, including the Arusha Declaration and successive plans, this has not
always been reflected in the allocation of resources to the agricultural
sector or in policy formulation and implementation. The general direction
of the Government's post-Arusha agriculture strategy has also tended to
emphasize the transformation of the institutional structure of rural devel-
opment (through the formation of villages and increasing public involvement
in the sector) over measures designed to improve agricultural production
directly. Many of these institutional changes were introduced too rapidly,
without careful planning or sufficient recognition that by themselves they
could not compensate for inadequate incentives and shortages of skilled
manpower and managers. More recently there has been a greater awareness of
the role of incentives, and recent price adjustments attest to the Govern-
ment's willingness to use incentives to influence the pattern of agricul-
tural production. Available manpower, however, is still stretched rather
thinly throughout the sector, mainly because of the predominant role
assigned to the public sector. This has resulted in weakened capacity for
policy planning and implementation, especially in the areas of research and
extension, and deficient dietribution of fertilizers and other on-farm
supplies and equipment. Another factor underlying the poor performance of
agriculture has been the deterioration of transport services. Road, rail,
and water services have declined owing to a lack of spare parts, poor main-
tenance, and inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The slow growth in agricultural production, tl-auleport bottle-
necks, and external shocks described above have all contrib,uted to the
severe deterioration in the balance of payments since 1979. By 1982,
export volumes had fallen to a level one-third below the peaks of the mid-
l960s and early 1970s. Furthermore, the terms of trade have declined by
40% since the coffee boom of 1977 due to a sharp increase in import costs,
especially for petroleum, at a time when the overall level of export prices
has been rising very slowly. Owing to these adverse developments, the pur-
chasing power of Tanzania's exports in ;982 was more than one-third lower
than in 1977 and only one-half of the 1966 level. The basic adjustment to
the high current account deficits following the second oil shock was
through a cutback in imports. By 1982, irport volumes were 32% below the
level in 1978 and 24% below the level prevailing in the early 1970s. Aid
inflows have been maintained, but they increasingly have been tied to
specific projects. Currently, food, oil and debt service account for
almost all of export earnings resulting in a severe shortage of foreign
exchange for many categories of imports for which aid resources are not
available. As a result, Tanzania has built up almost US$400 million of
import arrears, and has drawn down all of its reserves.
12.       Given the poor prospects for internatioaal commodity prices as
well as the limited scope for further external aid, there is little
immediate prospect for an improvement in the balance of payments. This



continuing balance of payments constraint is inevitably having a
debilitating effect on the economy, with lower imports reducing production
and nmintenance of existing assets, resulting in further falls in exports
and available foreign exchange. This vicious circle will be difficult to
break inless there is a substantial injection of foreign exchange and major
improvements in producer incentives, parastdtal operations, import alloca-
tions, promotion of non-traditional exports, and overall government
planning and budgeting.
13.       In spite of intensive discussions with the Government in 1980 and
1981, it was difficult to focus on specific corrective measures needed for
structural adjustment. In the absence of a comprehensive reform program,
an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (Credit 1133-TA) in the amount of
US$50 million was negotiated in March 1981 to support a limited but sharply
defined sec of measures intended to assist the Government in arresting the
decline in earnings from the country's major export crops. During
negotiations of this Program Credit, agreement was also reached on a
Memorandum of Understanding on Follow-Up Measures. These included more
restraint and selectivity in the public investment program, more emphasis
in the recurrent budget on the operations and maintenance needs of the
economy, improved foreign exchange budgeting, reexamination of the roles
(particularly purchasing mandates) of the State-owned crop authorities,
introduction of more payment-by-results schemes in industry, and review of
subsidy and cost recovery arrangements in the public sector. A special
agricultural account was established to channel imports into agriculture
with suprisingly little friction among the institutions concerned, although
the Government was not able to meet its own obligation to contribute USS50
million to the account. The Government also agreed that an independent
Advisory Group would be established to assist in preparing a comprehensive
program of economic rehabilitation and recovery.
14.       The Advisory Group began work in November 1981 and completed its
Report in April 1982. A large number of its recommendations were adopted
by the Government and incorporated into a Structural Adjustment Program,
which was issued in July 1982. This Program includes a series of important
initiatives and proposals. The development budget was substantially cut
back in 1982/83 for the second year in a row to release resources for the
operations and maintenance needs of the economy. Agricultural producer
prices were adjusted in 1983/84 and in 1984/85, which initially maintained
them broadly constant in real terms and more recently increased them in
real terms. The Government also announced its intention to relax
restrictions on interregional trade. It also opened up the marketing of
some crops (mainly minor grains such as millet) to anyone interested in
conducting such trade.
15.       In the 1984/85 budget submitted to Parliament on June 14, 1984,
the Government announced a series of new measures. The most recent
measures include a major exchange rate adjustment (36Z), the second in tw',
years, an increase in agricultural producer prices of between 46% and 55Z,
and an initiation of a program to improve the efficiency and productivity
of agricultural parastatals. Preliminary analysis shows that these pricing
changes are sufficient to allow agricultural parastatals as a group to
break even while zesulting in an increase of 5% in real incomes of export
crop producers. There is a serious attempt to make the NMC, the parastatal



- 6 -
respoasible for grain marketing, financially viable through an increase in
the consumer price for maize and a decontrol of the price of maize flour
(sembe). These measures together should eliminate the need for budgetary
transfers to the parastatals, which had amounted to nearly 11% of total
recurrent expenditures in 1982/83. The measures also include politically
sensitive actions such as the removal of subsidies on fertilizer and
insecticides and the introduction of fees for secondary schools to cover a
part of the costs.
16.       The 1984/85 budget is thus bold in its attempts to reverse
previous economic policies. However, the success of the budget in meeting
its financial targets will, to a large extent, be contingent on
availability of additional external assistance.  Similarly, the supply
response in agriculture to the improved incentives is likely to be weak in
the absence of an increase in import capability that could finance
incentive goods and agricultural inputs.
17.       Tanzania has not had access to IMF facilities since December
1980, when the Government failed to meet performance targets under a
previous Standby. Despite four rounds of discussions (in May, June,
August, and October 1982), no agreement could be reached on a reform
program. Following the announcement of devaluation and other new measures
on June 14, 1984 (paragraph 15), the Government and the IMF have resumed
discussions. Senior officials of the Ministry of Finance visited
Washington in early July to elaborate upon the basis for the new measures.
An IMF mission visited Tanzania in October to discuss the outline of a
possible IMF program.
la.       Even with a much improved export performance, Tanzania will
continue to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially
over the next three to five years. A halt in the decline in per capita GD2
will require increasing amounts of aid in real terms and a careful review
of import requirements, especially those for low-priority projects with
long gestation periods and high foreign exchange costs. Otherwise the
prospects would be for generally stagaant economic activity over the 1980s
as a whole, with a substantial decline in per capita incomes. To avoid
this situation, continued emphasis will be needed on export performance and
concerted effort will be required to improve the level of capacity utiliza-
tion and efficiency in the economy. Furthermore, this must be done without
jeopardizing vital food production.
19.       Although it may be possible to finance a small portion of the
current account gap through commercial borrowings, the scope for this is
clearly limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising commercial
credit during a period of balance of payments problems, Tanzania simply
cannot afford the heavy burden of debt service payments. Therefore, the
bulk of the financing requirements will have to be met by additional
foreign assistance. Possible sources for this assistance include deferred
payment arrangements and other concessional finan"ing from oil-supplying
countries, additional new commitments from traditional bilateral and
multilateral sources, and continued movement toward non-project
assistance.



-7
External Debt
20.       Owing to the very concessional terms on which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher
cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt
service ratios have historically been less than 10%. In recent years,
there has been somewhat greater reliance on non-concessional borrowing.
This borrowing, combined with falling exports, has resulted in an increase
in the debt service ratio, which was estimated in 1982 to have been about
20%. The Bank Group is assisting the Government in carrying out a complete
review of its external debt and improving its debt management system. This
effort, which is still underway, has revealed that the reports on publicly
guaranteed debt are incomplete and projected debt service payments may rise
sharply as a number of old loans begin to fall due and coverage of the debt
information improves. Unless Tanzania's poor export performance is re-
versed, the debt service ratio over the next several years may be signifi-
cantly higher than indicated above. Based on existing data, the Bank Group
held 38Z of Tanzania's external debt outstanding and disbursed in 1982
(IBRD 13%) and obligations to the Bank Group accounted for 14X of total
debt service.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA I/
21.       Tanzania joined the Bank, the Association, and the International
Finance Corporation in 1962. Beginning with an IDA credit for education in
1963, 59 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of these on Third Window terms,
amounting to US$1,126.5 million have so far been approved for Tanzania. In
addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 11 loans totalling US$244.8
million which were extended for the development of the common services and
development bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda through
their association in the former East African Community. IFC investments in
Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the Kilombero Sugar
Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial difficulties
and in 1969, IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company to
the Government. Another IFC investment of US$1.7 million in soap manufac-
turing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1978, an
investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was approved in
May 1979 and in June 1984 an investment of US$3.2 million was approved for
the Amboni sisal rehabilitation project.  Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investmeats to Tanzania as of
March 31, 1985.
22.       Bank Group lending in Tanzania has been centered on:  (i) agri-
culture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv) educa-
tion and manpower development. Since FY81, new Bank Group lending has been
tocussed primarily on the rehabilitation and use of existing productive
1/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Port Rehabilitation
Project (Report No. P-3898-TA) of November 8, 1984.



-8-
facilities and the introduction of infrastructure and services (such as
power generation and education facilities) of long term use to the
economy. Projects have been designed to minimize new demands on the
Government's recurrent, development, and foreign exchange budgets; have
been centered on already experienced or financially healthy institutions;
and have been logistically insulated, as far as possible, from general
supply difficulties in the economy. They have included technical
assistance and training for better maintenance and use of existing capital
facilities and mDre effective resource allocation in the economy. Lending
during FY82-FY85 along these lines included a second petroleum exploration
project, third and fourth technical assistance projects (focussed on key
manpower gaps in the agricultural sector), a rehabilitation project for the
Dar es Salaam sewerage system, a coal engineering project, a hydroelectric
power project, and a port rehabilitation project.
23.       A small number of other projects may be proposed in the agricul-
tural, energy, and transport sectors during the next three years. A sixth
highway project, involving mainly maintenance and reconstruction (particu-
larly sections of the Tanzania-Zambia highway), and an agriculture rehabi-
litation project are under preparation. however, the design and implemen-
tation of viable projects including new investments in the productive
sectors of the economy, especially agriculture and industry, will remain
problematical in the absence of a wide-ranging economic adjustment program.
24.       In addition to financing specific projects, the Bank Group has
provided non-project assistance on three occasions in support of Govern-
ment efforts to deal with its balance of payments difficulties. The first
such Credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977, and the most recent, an
Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (No. 1133-TA), in April 1981.
25.       Project implementation in Tanzania has been adversely affected
during the last five years by the disruptions of the Uganda War and the
country's extreme foreign exchange difficulties, which have resulted in
shortages of fuel and building materials, even when budgetary allocations
for such purchases have been adequate. External financing agencies have
been increasing the share of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
covered by project budgets; however, it is impossible to cushion projects
completely, particularly in remote areas, from the ramifications of the
economic crisis. Bank Group disbursements grew from US$58 million in FY78
to US$115.9 million in FY82 and then declined to US$71.2 million in FY84.
A comparison with other portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region indicates
that Tanzanian disbursements have been about average for the Region, rang-
ing as a proportion of outstanding commitments from 25.5% in FY78 to 21.4%
in FY84 (compared with 24.5% and 23.0X in the same years for the Region as
a whole).
26.       Supervision missions have been concerned with adapting project
implementation to difficult factors facing the country or individual
sectors, which were not anticipated or have proved worse than expected at
appraisal. A major Country Implementation Review was held in Dar es Salaam
in uctober 1982 during which Government officials and Bank Group staff
agreed to recommend the restructuring or discontinuation of several
projects experiencing persistent implementation problems. Intensive
supervision and, in the case of the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Credit



-9-
1370-TA), timely assistance from co-financiers have already had some reme-
dial results. Even in the agricultural sector, where constraints on imple-
mentation have been most severe, there have been improvements Lu some
projects. However, considerable work remains to be done in improving
project implementation and disbursements. The Country Implementation
Review scheduled for May 1984, had to be deferred because of changes in the
Government, but discussions were held on further rationalization of the
project portfolio. The next Review is planned for Fall, 1985.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Introduction
27.       A recent joint UNDP/World Bank energy assessment report, entitled
Tanzania - Issues and Options in the Energy Sector2/, contains a
comprehensive review of the energy sector in TanzaWnia and a set of
recommendations aimed towards the efficient develupment of the sector.
According to this report Tanzania's final energy consumption totalled about
9.0 million toe in 1981, of which 92Z was consumed as non-commercial energy
(fuelwood and charcoal) and the balance (8Z) as commercial energy
(hydroelectricity, coal and petroleum products). The overall per capita
consumption, estimated to be about 470 Kgoe, is comparable to other
developing countries at similar levels of per capita income.
28.       Tanzania's energy requirements, except for petroleum products,
are supplied from the country's large indigenous resources of fuelvood,
hydropower and coal. Although gas reserves of about 0.725 TCF have
recently been proved at Songo Songo, a small island about 250 km,
southeast of Dar es Salaam, with IDA assistance, they have not yet been
developed and Tanzania is still dependent entirely on crude and product
imports to meet its petroleum requirements. Since petroleum products
accounted for over 90% of the total commercial energy consumption, their
import has had a major impact on the country's balance of payments. In
1982, they accounted for 51% of Tanzania's "free' foreign exchange (export
earnings and foreign aid not tied to specific projects), a proportion which
has increased rapidly since the late 1970's.
29.       To improve the efficiency of hydrocarbon distribution and
utilization in Tanzania, with consequent benefits to tht economy, the
Energy Assessment Report identified a number of key areas which should be
addressed urgently, including:
(a) the rehabilitation and rationalization of the petroleum
importation, refining and distribution system;
(b) the economic development of Tanzania's gas resources which
are the only proved hydrocarbon resources in the country;
2/ Report No. 4969-TA, dated November 1984, of the Joint UNDP/World Bank
Energy Sector Assessment Program.



- 10 -
(c)  the continuance of the petroleum exploration effort by the
private sector; and
(d) strengthening of the relevant institutions.
Sector Organization
30.       Responsibility for the energy sector rests with several
agencies. The Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM) is in charge
of hydrocarbons, electricity, coal and uranium. The Ministry of Lands,
Natural Resources and Tourism (MLNRT) handles fuelvood. In addition to
their policy formulation responsibilities, the ministries also supervise
the activities of the parastatal organizations under their jurisdiction.
As regards the commercial energy sector, M4WEM supervises the TPDC, the
Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO), the State Mining Corporation,
and the Rufiji Basin Development Authority.
31.       Within MWEM, energy sector matters are dealt with by the newly
created Energy Department in the Ministry. The Energy Department is headed
by the recently appointed Commissioner for Energy and Petroleum Affairs,
who reports to the Principal Secretary. This Department is responsible for
energy planning and policy development activities 3/, evaluation of energy
projects and monitoring of TPDC's implementation responsibilities and is
divided into four Directorates, Petroleum, Electricity, Energy Systems and
Exploration and Renewable Energy, each of which is assisted by an external
adviser. The establishment of a separate Energy Department and the higher
authority which has been accorded to its head should strengthen MWEM's
capacity in discharging its energy sector responsibilities.
32.       TPDC is the agency responsible for the implementation of
Government policies in the petroleum sector. TPDC was established as a
parastatal corporation in 1969 with responsibility for:
(a) petroleum exploration and development (on its own
account or as joint venturer);
(b) purchase, processing and sale of crude and refined products;
(c) coordination of product allocation and marketing;
(d) advising on product pricing; and
(e) promotion of industrial projects based on the petroleum
sector.
3/  The Energy Assessment Report recommended the establishment of an Energy
Commission, comprising the Principal Secretaries of the ministries
concerned in the energy sector, with a supporting secretariat, to
promoce sector coordination and planning. This recommendation is
currently under consideration within Government.



- 11 -
Since establishment, TPDC has carried out its responsibilities both
directly and through the private sector, Its direct drilling operations at
Songo Songo and elsewhere (paragraph 41) representing an example of the
former. However, since the conclusion of these operations, Government has
restricted TPDC's responsibilities to the implementation of Government's
policies in petroleum exploration, development and marketing. Government
looks to the private sector to provide the financial and technical
resources to undertake operational responsibility in these areas.
33.       Petroleum exploration has been carried out in Tanzania under
production sharing or joint venture agreements by a number of international
companies (including AGIP, Shell, International Energy Development
Corporation (IEDC)). Refining of imported crude is carried out by che
Tanzanian and Italian Refinery Limited (Tiper) under a long term cost --
plus toll refining contract with TPDC. Tiper is jointly owned by
Government and Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi (ENI) of Italy with AGIP Petroli,
an operating subsidiary of ENI, responsible for refinery management, for
which it provides five expatriate managerial staff. Petroleum products are
marketed by five Tanzanian subsidiary companies, British Petroleum (BP),
AGIP, ESSO, Caltex and Total. The Government, through TPDC, holds a 50%
share in the BP and AGIP companies while the others are wholly owned by
their respective pareat companies. In all cases, management is provided by
the parent oil company.
34.       With a view to strengthening the TPDC organization, the Second
Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project (Credit 1199-TA) included
provision for a study of its managerial and financial structure. The study
was carried out by the Commonwealth Secretariat and completed in 1983.
Government, however, deferred implementation of the restructuring
recommended by the study until January 1985, pending completion by TPDC of
its drilling programs at Songo Songo and Kimbiji. The measures recommended
by the study are now being implemented. A training program for TPDC's
technical staff is underway, financed under Norwegian aid. This program
needs to be supplemented with specific training for TPDC staff in
collection and analysis of product marketing and distribution data, and in
monitoring and budgeting of oil company exploration expenditures. The
proposed project includes the provision of training for TPDC staff
(paragraph 64).
Petroleum Product Distribution
35.      Refining:  The Tiper Refinery has a design capacity of 750,000 mt
per annum of products, based on Iranian or Iraqi crude, to yield about
700,000 mt of refined products. The yield pattern of the Refinery is not,
however, in balance with current product demand, creating gasoline,
kerosene and gas oil deficits and fuel oil surpluses. To reduce this
imbalance, Tanzania has in recent years imported lighter crudes, such as
Murban and Qatar, which have lowered maximum refinery output to 600,000 mt
per annum. Even this level of production has not, however, been achieved
because of periodic crude shortages and operating problems.
36.       The Refinery's internal fuel consumption, including losses,
ranges between 7% and 8%, which is high compared to the prevailing industry
norm of 3.5% - 4% for refineries of similar configuration. An engineering



- 12 -
study by Snamprogetti, an ltalian company, has now been completed with the
assistance of Italian bilateral aid, to review measures to improve the
Refinery performance. The economic justification for operating the Tiper
Refinery is, however, affected by recent international and regional
developments in the petroleum refining subsector, in particular the
substantial refinery capacities coming onstream in the Middle East. In
addition, the substitution of gas for competing fuels resulting from the
utilization of Songo Songo reserves would also impact upon demand for Tiper
Refinery products. The Government has confirmed that it has this question
under continuing review but has emphasized that it would wish to take no
action which might prejudice its current access to crude on preferential
terms. The Bank Group will continue its dialogue with Tanzania regarding
alternative overall schemes of supplying and distributing petroleum
products for Tanzania and possibly also for other countries in the region.
37.       Distribution:  The transporcation network plays a key role in the
economy, and particularly in the agricultural sector which is Tanzania's
main source of export earnings, both in distribution of inputs (fertilizers
and sprays) and in product marketing. It is, therefore, important that
adequate fuel supplies are made available in a timely fashion to the crop
areas. Petroleum products, principally gas oil for tractors and farm
machinery and for long haul and local distribution trucks, are distributed
to these areas by the five local oil marketing companies, BP, AGIP, Esso,
Caltex and Total (paragraph 33). Imported and domestically refined
products are stored by these companies in Dar es Salaam and then trans-
ported by road, rail and sea to their respective regional storage facili-
ties or direct to retail outlets and bulk customers. Petroleum products
are transported by rail over the Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) network
to the North and West, but not over the Tanzania Zambia Railways Authority
(Tazara) line to Zambia, which lacks commercial petroleum product storage
facilities. TRC also provides product transportation on Lake Victoria by
lake tanker. The Government of Zanzibar provides product coastal
transportation by two marine tankers. Road transportation of products is
carried out by private road tanker operators under contract with the oil
marketing companies.
38.       The overall transportation sector is severely run down because of
lack of maintenance and spare parts, partly reflecting foreign exchange
constraints. As a result, petroleum product supplies in the principal
agricultural areas are often low and periodically are depleted altogether.
The generally poor road conditions also cause heavy strain on the road
tanker fleet serving the Moshi/Arusha areas. Similarly, operating rail
tarkcars are in short supply4/, and are therefore allocated exclusively to
supply the Central (Dodoma), West (Kigoma) and Northwest (Mwanza) areas
which are not accessable by road from Dar es Salaam. The lake and coastal
vessels serving the Lake Victoria areas and the coastal areas north and
south of Dar es Salaam are also often cut of operation for the same
reasons. While the overall rehabilitation of the transportation sector
4/ Of a total of about 350 potentially usable rail tankears, only about
100 are currently in operational condition due to lack of maintenance
and spare parts.



- 13 -
requires a major Government program, some progress is already being made.
A locomotive rehabilitation yard has recently been established by TRC at
Morogoro with the assistance of Canadian CIDA, and the financing of rail
tankcar rehabilitation facilities in Dar es Salaam has recently been
approved by that agency. A major road rehabilitation project is currently
under preparation by the Association. Pending overall rehabilitation of
the transportaticon network, immediate measures are required to improve
product distribution in agricultural crop areas and to reduce certain
product wastages. The proposed project includes provision for these
measures (paragraphs 59 and 60).
39.      Liquified petroleum gas (LPG) produced by the Refinery is marketed
principally in Dar es Sulaam by three of the local oil marketing companies,
AGIP, BP and Esso, for domestic consumpt'on. The LPG is stored by the
companies and distributed by them, either directly to bulk consumers, such
as hotels and schools, or through distribution companies to the retail
market in portable LPG bottles. Over the past few years, however, LPG
bottles and other facilities have been increasingly scarce due to foreign
exchange shortages. As a result, the Refinery has been unable to market
its full LPG output, and has been flaring about 1,000 tpy out of 6,000 tpy
produced. There is an urgent need to replenish the supply of LPG bottles
and related facilities so that the flaring of LPG can be stopped. The
proposed projecL includes provision of these facilities (paragraph 59).
40.      Pricing.  The prices of petroleum products are controlled by the
Government. The retail prices of petroleum products (including gas oil)
are at least equal to their economic opportunity costs, delivered in Dar es
Salaam. Prices are uniform at the lb major regional distribution centers
in the country. The price structure provides for freight and equalization
funds to reimburse the marketing companies for transport cost differentials
between the regional distribution centers.
Utilization of Tanzania's Gas Reserves
41.      Gas Reserves.  The Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Program,
completed by TPDC in 1983 with the assistance of the Association and other
cofinanciers, succeeded in proving up Tanzania's only commercial
hydrocarbon reserves. The reserves are located at Songo Songo Island,
about 250 km southeast of bar es Salaam. Proven gas reserves amount to 725
billion cubic feet, and proven and probable reserves to over one triliion
cubic feet. The Songo Songo field should produce up to 100 million cubic
feet of gas per day from wells SS-5, -7 and -9 (paragraph 45) when the
existing 3+ inch production tubing is replaced by 4+ inch production
tubing. A Summary of the Songo Songo exploration history is given in
Annex 4. The well head assemblies of wells SS-5, -7, and -9 protrude about
five feet above sea level. The well head assemblies are therefore subject
to seawater corrosion and to marine collision hazards. Provision for
protection of these wells is tikerefore included under the proposed project
(paragraph 62).
42.      before the beginning of the drilling program financed by the
Association, TPDC had already drilled in 1977/78 two wells onshore Songo
Songo Island, wells SS-3 and -4. These wells were not completed according
to American Petroleum Institute standards and, starting in 1980, developed



- 14 -
minor gas leaks for which temporary remedial action was taken. In
mid-1984, these leaks increased to dangerous levels, with consequent risk
to life and property on Songo Songo Island and to the overall productivity
of the Songo Songo reservoir. While temporary remedial action has again
been taken, the permanent rehabilitation of wells SS-3 and -4 is now
urgently required. To enable this work to start as quickly as possible,
funds are being made available on an interim basis by the Tanzania
Investment Bank to TPDC out of the proceeds of IDA Credit 1060-TA,
(paragraph 8U).
43.      Potential Export Markets.  Since the Songo Songo field is too
small to justify a liquifled natural gas (LNG) project, the principal
potential market for Songo Songo gas is fertilizer production for export.
In 1981, TPDC entered into an agreement with Agrico, a member of the U.S.
Williams Group, for the construction and operation at Kilwa of the Kilamco
ammonia/urea plant, with capacity of 1,150 5/ tpd of ammonia and 1,725 tpd
of urea, to be supplied by Songo Songo gas. Tanzania's domestic fertilizer
demand is expected to take less than 10% of production; the balance would
have to be exported to world markets under marketing agreements with
Agrico. Arrangements for the financing of the fertilizer project,
currently estimated to cost about US$500 million, including an approach to
the International Finance Corporation, are still under discussion. Under
the 1981 Agreement with Agrico, gas would be supplied from Songo Songo to
the fertilizer plant as required up to a maximum of 66 mmcfd over a period
of 25 years, a total requirement of up to 600 BCF of gas.
44.      On the basis of current project cost estimates and projected
fertilizer pr'ces, some concern arises as to whether the fertilizer
project, as presently structured, would be able to pay an economic price
for the Songo Songo gas, while at the same time earning a reasonable rate
of return on the project investment. The Government is currently
examining with Agrico the possibility of a reduction in the proposed
capital costs of the fertilizer plant to make it competitive with other
world scale fertilizer projects now being planned, and exploring whether an
additional foreign equity participation can be introduced to make the
proposed fertilizer project economically viable and reduce Government's
financial exposure and risk.
45.      Potential Domestic Markets.  The potential domestic markets for
gas comprise industrial fuel oil substitution (including supply to the
Tiper Refinery), power generation and transportation. These markets have
already been reviewed by the International Gas Development Corporation
(IGDC) under the First Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project (Credit
1199-TA), and by the energy assessment mission. Their conclusions
regarding the main domestic gas markets, together with the projected export
5/ An increase to 1,560 tpd of ammonia, to provide a surplus for export
above urea production requirements, is currently under review. The
daily gas deliverability and total reserves provided under the 1981
agreement should be sufficient to cover such an ammonia production
increase.



- 15 -
market demand referred to above, are summarized in Table I below, which
shows the potential domestic gas market of about 12 mmcfd under zero growth
projections and, alternatively, about 67 mmefd under growth projections
applicable to the sector concerned.  Such amounts of g's could be supplied
from Songo Songo to Dar es Salaam via an 8-inch transmission pipeline,
which, together with associated equipment, is estimated to cost about US$55
million to construct, although detailed field studies would be required to
firm up this estimate. The Energy Assessment Report has analyzed the
economic viability of this gas supply project using various assumptions on
gas demand and pipeline system configuration. According to these
preliminary analyses, the transmission pipeline investment would be
economically justified even under the assumption of gas demand under zero
growth projections. In the light of the positive findings of the IGLC
study and the Energy Assessment keport, assistance is now required to
enable Government to develop an overall strategy for the urilization of
Tanzania's indigenous gas resources and provision for this purpose is
included under the project (paragraph 71). An assessment of the various
segments of the potential domestic gas markets is given in the following
paragraphs.
46.       Industrial Fuel uil Substitution:  Total Dar es Salaam based
industrial consumption of fuel oil, at the depressed 1982 production
levels, amounted to about 80 million liters (75,000 toe) per year.
Assuming continued industrial production at the 1982 levels and that all
industries surveyed converted to gas, the substitution of 80 million liters
of fuel oil by gas would represent an annual gas consumption of about 3.1
BCF or 8.4 mmefd, a total over 20 years of about 60 BCF. This consumption
would be equivalent to gross annual savings in excess of US$10 million
(valuing fuel oil at a conservative export price of US$140 per ton). If
industrial fuel oil consumption were to grow at, say, 3% per annum from
1985 onwards, the industrial substitution gas market would grow to 10
mmcfdby 1990 and 15 mmcfd by 2007, a total of about 95 BCF over that
period. Assistance to the Government (including on site engineers
inspection) to firm up these assessments of the potential demand of
industrial plants (including the supply of gas to the Tiper Refinery for
boiler and furnace firing) in the Dar es Salaam area and of potential gas
sales under alternative economic growth scenarios is now required. The
proposed project includes provision for this assessment (paragraph
62(2)(a)).
47.       The Power Generation Market:  Power demand is estimated to exceed
existing generation capacity by 1992 in the case of the growth scenario
shown in Table 1, or by 1998 in the case of the alternative no growth
scenario also shown in that Table. The next power generation increment
could represent a substantial new market for gas either for peak shaving,
or to defer major new power generation investment, or even to provide power
to neighboring countries. The exact size of the long term gas market will
depend on overall electricity demand projections and on the relative role
played by gas, hydro and coal in Tanzania's overall power network. The
least cost power generation study provided for under the Tanzania Fourth
Power Project (Credit 1405-TA), approved by the Board in August 1983,
addresses this issue.  This study is being carried out by Acres of Canada
and is expected to be completed by July 1985.



- 16 -
Table I
Potential Natural Gas Markets as at 2007
Nlo Growth I/                  Growth 2'
Cumulative                 Cumulative
Daily       Reserve        Daily        Reserve
Delivery   Requirement    Delivery   E4uirement
(mmefd)       (BCF)         (mmcfd)      (BCF)
Export
Fertilizer                  bb.0          602.0          6b.0          602.0
Domestic
Industry
Dar Plants                 4.2           30.9           8.4           51.6
Wazo Hill                  2.6           19.3           5.4           32.6
Tiper Refinery 3/          1.5           11.2           1.5           11.2
Power
Ubungo 4/                  3.5           25.4           3.5           25.4
Grid System                 -             -            39.4           65.1
Transportation (CNG)           -             -            8.4           44.4
Domestic Subtotal            11.8          86.8          66.6          230.3
Total                        77.8         688.8         132.6          832.3
I/ based on 1982 industrial fuel oil consumption.
2/  Industry - 3% p.a. from 1985 through 2007; Power - 2% 1982-87, 5%  1988-92
and 6% 1993-2007; and Transportation, irregular growth through 1996,
constant thereafter (paragraph 4.36 of the Energy Assessment Report).
3/ No projected growth in TIPER demand since both cases assume refinery
operation at capacity.
4/  dased on standby use at a 20X load factor, following station
rehabilitation. No projected growth since both cases assume a constant
Ubungo station load factor.
48.       The 60 MW thermal Ubungo power station in Dar es Salaam, the only
thermal generation capacity in the existing grid system, represents a
potential market for gas for power generation in the short term which would
be attractive given the high value of diesel savings (equivalent to US$7.40
per million Btu of gas compared to fuel oil value of US$3.67 per million
Btu).  Standby thermal capacity in Dar es Salaam is required as a back up
against transmission line failure and reservoir shortfall in dry years and
to add flexibility to grid system planning.  In recognition of this need,



- 17 -
the Tanzania Fourth Power Project (Credit 1405-TA) includes provision for
review of the feasibility of rehabilitating the Ubungo station's original
generation capacity of 60 MW, compared to its currently operative capacity
of 10 MW, including the feasibility of converting the existing generators
to gas, or replacing them by gas turbines. If operating at a 20X load
factor, Ubungo station would generate lOU Gwh per annum and would consume
about 3.5 mmcfd of gas, equivalent to savings of over US$9 million p.a.
The results of the study, which is being carried by Engineering and Power
Development Consultants (EPDC) of the UK, is expected to be available by
July 1, 1985.
49.       The Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) Market.  The technology for CNG
use in transportation is relatively straightforward and field tested,
particularly for spark ignition engines. A full scale program for running
motor cars on CNG rather than gasoline has been successfully in operation
since the 1940s in the Po Valley, Italy, using local gas. More recently,
schemes have been introduced in New Zealand, Canada and the USA for CNG use
by gasoline engine cars and diesel engine trucks and buses. In addition to
transportation, potential CNG markets also include use of CNG in areas not
serviced by the national grid system, including use for power generation,
iirigation, essential industries, and other cottage or rural agro-based
industries remote from possible pipeline connections. The potential
expansion of the market beyond stationery plants in the Dar es Salaam area,
plus the higher values of the fuels, gasoline and diesel, which would be
replaced by the CNG, make the potential CNG market attractive in planning
the utilization of Tanzania's gas reserves. Although a number of
experiments in developing countries with CNG have been initiated over the
last few years, CNG utilization has not yet been introduced on a commercial
scale. The proposed project therefore includes provision for a CNG study
followed by a CAG demonstration scheme (paragraph 62).  The estimated total
potential market in Dar es Salaam for transportation, covering public
service transportation (bus, rail, sea), truck and car fleet operations and
general public use is of the order of 4 mmcfd of gas by 1991, rising to 8.4
mmcfd by the end of the decade, resulting in potential gross diesel oil
savings rising from about US$11 million to US$22 million during this
period.
50.       Availability of Gas for Domestic Markets.  Allowing for the
maximum requirement of 66 mmefd by the fertilizer plant (Table 1), the gas
available fer the domestic market (industrial fuel oil substitution, power
generation and transportation) would be 125 BCF deliverable at up to 34
mmcfd. Compared to the potential gas demands for the domestic market shown
in Table 1, the available gas would substantially exceed the daily and
cumulative gas domestic demand over a 20 year period under zero growth
projections. However, under the alternative growth projections also
shown in the Table, the gas deliverability and reserve levels could
constrain the full development over that period of the domestic market
potential, particularly as regards gas supply for bulk power generation. A
strategy is required to optimize the allocation of gas between markets in
the event of supply constraints. Provision would be made under the project
to assist in the development of such a strategy (paragraph 62).



- 18 -
Petroleum Exploration
51.       Government policy Is to look to the private sector to carry out
petroleum exploration in Tanzania. Direct TPDC exploration is authorized
only in limited circumstances. For example, the Songo Songo exploration
program (financed in part by the Association under Credit 1199-TA) was
entruatcd to TPDC because the prospective hydrocarbon reserves were
considered too small to be attractive to the international oil companies as
a basis for a large export-oriented project. To encourage private sector
investment, the Petroleum (Exploration and Production) Act was enacted in
1980. That Act, together with the model form exploration and production
license issued thereunder, sets out the basic fiscal and regulatory
framework for private sector exploration in Tanzania. Government policy has
been successful in attracting the substantial private sector exploration
program now underway (see Nap IBRD 17580R) on the basis of this framework.
Shell Oil (with a minority participation by ESSO) has taken out an
exploration license over a large onshore area sothwest of Dar es Salaam
and the International Energy Development Corporation (IEDC) an on and
offshore area north of Dar es Salaam. Both companies have now drilled
their first wells, the results of which are not as yet available. Shell,
in partnership with Esso, is now mobilizing for a second well and Kuwait
Overseas Exploration Company (KOPEC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kuwait
Petroleum Corporation, and Elf Aquitaine have joined with IEDC for the same
purpose. To further encourage the private sector in other prospective
areas, Government has recently completed a regional aeromagnetic survey
over the Tanganyika Graben under a ioint program with Zaire, Burundi and
Uganda, in the case of Tanzania financed by an existing World Bank Group
technical assistance project (Credit 1060-TA). The survey indicates
sedimentary thicknesses of up to 4,000 m. As a result, a number of oil
companies are currently discussing with Government the possibility of
taking out exploration licenses.
52.       The principal petroleum prospective area not taken out, or under
consideration by the private sector is the Tanzania Coastal Basin. Under a
technical assistance program, the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate (NPD) has
recrntly completed a geological study of the central Coastal Basin, which
indicates a number of attractive petroleum prospects in the area, and is
about to start a similar study of the southern Coastal Basin. The
financing arrangements for these studies do not, however, include any
promotional marketing of these prospects for oil company exploration. In
addition, a data acquisition company and a petroleum exploration company
are currently considering the possibility of undertaking a regional seismic
program and a regional geochemical study respectively, to be carried on a
speculative basis for subsequent sale to the industry. Pro-vision for
consolidation of the NPD studies, for a TPDC minority share in the regional
programs, and for marketing of prospects in the Coastal Basin for private
sector exploration, is included under the proposed project (paragraph 63).
The Role of the Bank Group in the Energy Sector
53.       The Bank Group has been involved in the development of the energy
sector in Tanzania for nearly two decades. It has assisted in the
financing of four power generation projects for TANESCO with loans and
credits totalling US$109.2 million. The last project (financed under an



- 19 -
IDA Credit of US$32.0 million equivalent) was approved by the Board in
1983, for the construction of the Mtera hydroelectric station (Credit
1405-TA). This project is being implemented satisfactorily. A US$6.3
million IDA credit was also approved in 1983 for a Coal Engineering Project
(Credit 1371-TA) to updace geological data on the Songwe-Kiwira field and
to explore and delineate further reserves at Tanzania's only producing coal
mine at Illima. The project has suffered delays in recruitment of
consultants and advisory staff. Consultants have now been contracted, and
the State Mining Corporation is actively searching for technical and
financial advisory staff. In the petroleum sector, Tanzania has received
two IDA credits for exploration (Credits S27-TA and 1199-TA), the first for
USS30.0 million in 1980 for the initial phase of the Songo Songo
exploration program, and the second in 1982 for US$2U.0 million to finance
the second phase of the program. The combined drilling program resulted in
the discovery of proven natural gas reserves of 725 BCF (paragraph 41) and
was compleced satisfactorily in 1983. A combined completion report is
being prepared. In addition, a regional aeromagnetic survey over the
Tanganyika Graben has recently been completed by Tanzania, Zaire, Burundi
and Uganda, in each case financed out of existing World Bank Group
technical assistance projects for those countries. This survey indicated
substantial sedimentary thicknesses. The Bank Group was also a sponsor of a
reconnaissance seismic program over Lake Tanganyika which verified the
aeromagnetie survey findings. Both programs have contributed towards the
current private sector exploration interest in the area.
54.      Over the past five years, the Bank Group has assisted the
Government of Tanzania in the design and implementation of a rational
energy strategy which would make maximum use of domestic energy resources
(mainly hydro and natural gas) and draw on external sources of capital and
expercise for risk investments. This process has been, and remains,
difficult because of the severe economic difficulties that Tanzania has to
face in the forseeable future. These difficulties have introduced
considerable uncertainties in demand projections, thus making investment
decision in new plant capacity (hydro or gas) very risky. The Bank Group
continues to support institutional development and the building up of a
sector and corporate management capability adequate to handle the future
development of the energy sector as a whole.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
55.       The project was appraised in December 1984 in response to
Government's invitation following its approval of the November 1984 Energy
Assessment Report. Negotiations were lield between April 29-May 1, 1985 in
Washington. The Tanzanian delegation was led by Mr. Fulgence Kazaura, the
Principal Secretary, Ministry of later, Energy and Minerals. A Credit and
Project Summary is given at the beginning of this report. A Supplementary
Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex 3. No staff appraisal report was
prepared for this project.
Rationale for the lnvolvement of the Association in the Project
56.       Through its support to Tanzania in the energy sector over the
past 20 years, particularly under the two Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration



- 20-
Projects and the recent Energy Assessment, the Bank Group has built up a
detailed knowledge of the sector, and sectoral institutions. This
knowledge places the Bank Group in a strong position to assist Government
to develop the overal'l energy strategy described above. Furthermore, the
involvement of the Bank Group in other countries in East Africa should
facilitate regional cooperation in energy exploration, product distribution
and potential energy export. The cofinancing between the Bank Group and
other agencies In projects in Tanzania and elsewhere should also facilitate
Government's identification of financing for future energy sector
investment.
Project Objectives
57.       The Energy Assessment Report identified immediate petroleum
sector requirements and made recommendations for a long-term petroleum
sector strategy. The proposed project would support these
recoimandations. The immediate project objective is to alleviate product
distribution bottlenecks and wastages. In the longer term, the project
seeks to assist Government, by building on information and analyses now
available, to develop an overall strategy for: Ct) the rehabilitation and
rationalization of the product distribution system; (ii) the utilization of
Tanzania's indigenous gas resources; and (iii) the maintenance of the
private sector exploration effort. To assist Government in developing and
implementing this strategy, the project seeks to strengthen the technical
capability of the newly formed Department of Energy (MWEM) in its
supervisory function, and of the national petroleum company as the
Government's principal petroleum sector implementing agency.
Project Description
58.       The proposed credit would finance: (a) equipment in support of
the petroleum distribution system, and a study to analyze and make
recommendations to improve the system; (b) wo-kover, rehabilitation and
protection of the Songo Songo gas wells, a gas utilization study to
evaluate the gas for domestic markets, including a CNG feasibility study,
and a CNG demonstration scheme; (c) preparation of an exploration promotion
package, and a TPDC minority share in a joint venture program of
speculative seismatic data acquisition and exploration study for promotion
to the oil industry; and (d) technical assistance, staff training, and
related equipment for MWk4 and TPDC institutional development.
Detailed Features
Part A - Petroleum Product Distribution
59.      This component comprises the provision of:
(1)   (a)  tires, pumps and related items to put about 40 ruad tankers
and about 55 retail and consumer product pumps back in
operation in Dar es Salaam and in key agricultural areas
(Mwanza, Mloshi and Arusha);
(b)  mobile radio equipment at the rail yard in Mwanza to decrease
rail tanker turnaround by about 20% and at the Tiper Refinery
to expedite product transfer at Dar es Salaam; and



- 21 -
(c) LPG bottles and related equipment to market in Dar es Salaam
about 1,000 tpy of LPG currently flared at the Tiper
Refinery; and
(2) undertaking a product distribution study to analyze the current
system of distribution and storage in Tanzania and to make
recommendations for the overall rationalization and rehabilitation
of the system.
60.       Pending the rehabilitation of the transportation network (para-
graph 38) and rationalization of the petroleum product distribution system,
the project would provide for immediate measures at a foreign exchange cost
of about US$500,000 to improve petroleum product distribution in key
agricultural areas and to reduce product wastages. The provision made for
tires represents a 12-18 month supply for tankers distributing products
locally from the regional storage facilities in Moshi, Arusha and Mwanza.
in Dar es Salaam, the project would save about US$500,000 annual product
losses by provision of about 12 transfer pumps at the main oil marketing
company storage tanks. The project would eliminate the LPG flaring and put
it back on the market In Dar es Salaam through the provision of about 2,000
LPG bottles and related facilities.
61.       The product distribution study would examine various economic
options to satisfy the petroleum product requirements in Tanzania. For the
longer term, the product distribution study would identify priorities for
the comprehensive rehabilitation of the petroleum transportation system and
make recommendations for the rationalization of the overall petroleum
product distribution system.
eart B - Domestic Gas Utilization
b2.      To address the urgent need for protecting life, resources and
capital assets, and to explore the possibility of petroleum product
substitution, this component comprises:
(1) the workover and rehabilitation of onshore Songo Songo Wells SS-3
and -4 to a safe operating condition (paragraph 42), and the
construction of platforms and protective structures around
offshore Songo Songo Wells SS-5, -7, and 9 to safeguard against
seawater corrosion and marine collision hazards (paragraph 41);
(2) undertaking a gas utilization study (paragraphs 45 and 46) in
three phases to evaluate the economic utilization of the Songo
Songo gas for the domestic markets, including:
(a) an assessment of the domestic markets in Dar es Salaam
served by a gas pipeline from Songo Songo (industry, Tiper
Refinery and national grid power generation) and for markets
in and outside that area served by CNG (transportation,
independent power stations and agribusiness).
(b) if justified by the market assessment study, the preliminary
design, sizing and routing of the Dar es Salaam gas supply
system, including distribution; and



- 22 -
(c) the development of an overall strategy for the utilization
of Songo Songo gas reserves, including gas pricing, the
identification of financing sources and the formulation of
appropriate institutional arrangements; and
(3)  subject to the recommendations of the g.8 utilization study, the
implementation of a demonstration scheme for the utilization of
CNG for public transportation in Dar es Salaam and for such other
industrial and commercial users as may be recommended by such
study.
The CdG study would assume that appropriate energy conservation measures
are taken, would assess the technical feasibility and cost of gas
conversion, and would include recommendations as to the justification,
timing and overall feasibility of proceeding with the demonstration
scheme. The scheme would test the adaptability of the technology of
operating in Tanzanian conditions for conventionally powered vehicles, for
independent power generation and for agribusiness use.
Part C - Exploration Promotion
O3.       In support of a petroleum promotional program, this component
comprises:
(1) preparation of an overall exploration promotion package, in
consultfttion with private sector oil companies, covering
prospective areas in the Coastal Basin, including data
gathering assignments by TPDC staff, and the promotion of
exploration in such areas to interested companies (paragraph
52); and
(2) financial participation by TPDC in joint venture programs of
speculative seismic data acquisition and exploration study in
the Coastal Basin for promotion to the oil industry
(paragraph 52).
The proposed project would finance a TPDC minority share in promotional
programs in order to mobilize private sector finance for the balance of the
program costs. The terms for TPDC participation would be provided for
under joint venture arrangements to be entered into on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. The proposed project would support
Government's continued efforts to maintain and attract further exploration
activities by the private sector.
Part D - Institutional Development
64.       Tc. further support the institutional capabilities of MWEH and
TPDC, this component would comprise:
(1)  strengthening of MWEM to undertake policy development and
energy sector strategy through the provision of technical
assistance, staff training and equipment, including short
term consultancies, workshop facilities, training programs,
data base building and analysis (paragraph 31); and



- 23 -
(2) training and managerial aseistance to TPDC staff in the
collection, analysis and processing of product marketing and
distribution data and in the monitoring of exploration
expenditures (paragraph 34).
In addition to providing institutional development assistance to MWEM and
TPDC staff, the project would provide for the participation of MWEM staff
in the gas utilization study, and of TPDC staff in the product distribution
and gas utilization studies provided for under the project.
Project Costs and Financing
65.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.0 million
consisting of US$8.0 million (73%) in foreign exchange costs and US$3.0
million (27%) in local costs, including taxes and duties of US$0.4
million.b/ A detailed breakdown of costs is given at Annex 5. The well
rehabilitation and protection platforms cost estimates are based on
quotations already received by TPDC, and the product distribution equipment
costs on estimates provided by the oil marketing companies. The project
provides for a total of 100 man months of various consulting and advisory
services. The man-month scales are comparable to those charged in Eastern
Africa for similar assignments, taking into account local conditions and
the high level of expertise required in the petroleum industry. Physical
contingencies total US$0.9 million or about 10% of base costs. Price
contingencies amount to US$0.9 million or about 10% of base costs and were
calculated assuming international price escalation of 4% in 1985, and 8% in
1986-88, and domestic price escalation of 15% in 1985, and 25% in 1986-88.
Financing Plan
66.       The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million (73% of total) would
finance 100% of foreign exchange costs. Except for parts B.2 and D.l(a) of
the project, the proceeds of the Credit would be made available by the
Borrower to TPDC initially as a Government advance, to be converted into a
loan or equity in consultation with the Association following completion of
the financial restructuring to be carried out by TPDC not later than July
31, 1986. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. The local
currency costs of the project amount to US$3.0 million equivalent, and
would be respectively financed by TPDC (US$2.9 million equivalent) and by
MWEM (US$0.1 million equivalent) from their own resources. The foreign and
local expenditures incurred by TPDC for the benefit of the Tiper Refinery,
Tanzania Railways Corporation and the oil marketing companies of US$0.5
million equivalent before contingencies would be repaid in full in local
currency by the corporation or company concerned. TPDC would agree to pay
6/ No taxes or duties are shown in respect of imported equipment for the
CNG demonstration scheme since TPDC will apply for exemption, as in the
case of equipment imported for the Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration
Projects. If taxes and duties are levied, TPDC has the financial
capacity to pay them. The matter will be clarified on submission of
the proposed CNG demonstration scheme to the Association for approval
(paragraph 80).



- 24 -
all monies so received into a local currency account (Project Account), and
to use those monies exclusively for the purposes of the project (Section
2.05, draft Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
67.       TPDC would be responsible under a Project Agreement to be entered
into with the Association, for the implementation of all parts of the
project, except for the strategy development phase of the gas utilization
study and institutional strengthening of MWEM, which would be implemented
by MWEM. To assist TPDC in the overall coordination of each project
compouent, TPDC would appoint a suitably qualified and experienced Project
Coordinator, on a full time basis, for a period of not less than 24 months
(paragraph 75) under terms of reference agreed at negotiations.
68.       The Product Distribution measures would be carried out by the oil
marketing companies, the Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) and the Tiper
Refinery under implementation arrangements with TPDC to be agreed by the
Association as a condition of disbursement (paragraph 80). The equipment
would be treated as having been procured by TPDC in the currency of the
supplier and immediately resold by TPDC to the companies, TRC or Tiper.
The local currency sales price would be agreed in advance, based on the
equipment's CIF cost at Dar es Salaam, plus duties, taxes and TPDC handling
charges. TPDC would undertake to use the local currency sales proceeds for
the purposes of the project (Section 2.05, draft Project Agreement).
69.       The Product Distribution Study  would be carried out by TPDC with
the assistance of a consulting firm specialized in product procurement and
distribution under terms of reterence agreed at negotiations.
70.       The Songo Songo Well Rehabilitation and Protection would be
carried out by specialized contractors on behalf of TPDC under the
supervision of a petroleum engineering consulting firm to be retained by
TPIC under terms of reference agreed at negotiations, in the former case
with appropriate provision for production testing, certification and
insurance. TPDC would be required to inspect and maintain all Songo Songo
wells on a regular basis, and to report to the Association accordingly.
71.       The Gas Utilization Study would be carried out under terms of
reference agreed aE negotiations in three phases, namely:
(i)  an internal review to consolidate existing studies, to be
carried out by NWEM;
(ii)  study of existing markets and, if justified, of gas supply
system design and costs, to be carried out by TPDC; and
(iii)  preparation of a gas utilization strategy, to be carried
out under implementation arrangements to be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association at the end of Phase
(ii).
To provide a firm basis for the development of a gas utilization strategy,
the marKeting study phase would consolidate existing data (including the



- 25 -
IGDC gas utilization study and related studies on industrial energy
conservation, refinery upgrading and future power generation planning), to
be supplemented by additional field data as required; the gas supply system
design and costing would include field studies of the route and take into
account the aesign and engineering now being carried out of the supply
system to Kilamco for the proposed fertilizer plant (paragraph 43).
72.       The CNG Demonstration Scheme:  TPDC would be responsible for
carrying out the CNG study as part of the overall gas utilization study,
with the assistance of consultants specialized in Lhe utilization of CNG in
developing countries. The CNG study would evaluate the economic viability
of CNG use in Tanzania, either independently of a pipeline system to Dar es
balaam, or in combination with such a system. If CNG use was found to be
economically viable, the study would prepare a detailed CNG demonstration
scheme to test the technical feasibility of CNG use in Tanzania conditions
and to initiate the introduction of CNG into commercial use. The CNG
demonstration scheme would include use for public sector bus
transportation, since the scheme could be operated on an enclave basis out
of a single bus depot in Dar es Salaam, simplifying implementation, and
since the gradual expansion of CNG use to the rest of the public bus
service fleet in Dar es Salaam would be a logical next step to enlarge the
CNG market. The CNG demonstration scheme would also include supply of CNG
to large industrial and commercial users in Dar es Salaam to increase
scheme revenues. Because of the potential of CNG in the transportation
sector in Tanzania and elsewhere, private sector vehicle and equipment
manufacturers, oil marketing companies, and their national bilateral aid
agencies, would be invited to participate in the CNG demonstration scheme
in addition to their ongoing programs, by providing CNG buses, storage and
filling station equipment, and technical assistance or implementing
specific parts of the demonstration scheme, or to expand it to other
segments of the putential market. IDA funds would only be used to finance
this equipment to the extent that bilateral or other financing could not be
secured. The major bus manufacturers (Daimler-Benz, Leyland) supplying
buses to Tanzania, and one of the oil marketing companies (Caltex)
operating in Tanzania have already expressed interest in participating in
the demonstration scheme. Their participation would not only contribute
towards the stuccessful implementation of the scheme, but would also
accelerate the transition from demonstration scheme to commercial CNG
utilization.
73.       Exploration Promotion:  The exploration promotion component
(including TPDC staff data gathering assignments) would be implemented by
TPDC with the assistance of exploration consultants under terms of
reference agreed at negotiations in accordance with a program for the
implementation of the exploratior. promotion, to be agreed with the
Association. The speculative programs of seismic acquisition and
geochemical study provided for under the project would be implemented by
seismic acquisition and exploration companies.
74.       Institutional Development:  A detailed program for the
institutional development components would be formulated, in the case of
MWEk, during its implementation of phase 1 of the gas utilization study,
and, in the case of TPDC, by the consultants retained for the product
distribution study and the exploration promotion project components.



- 26 -
75.       Appointment of the Project Coordinator on terms of reference
agreed during negotiations would be a condition of effectiventess of the
proposed credit (Section 5.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Agreement was reached during negotiations that TPDC would promptly appoint
at least 3 professional staff (in petroleum marketing, operations and
finance) to work with the Project Coordinator.
76.       The two studies provided for under the project (product
distribution and gas utilization (paragraphs 61 and 62) would be
implemented by MWEM and TPDC with the assistance of consulting firms. MWEM
and TPDC have agreed that these studies should be commenced by November 1,
1985. Upon completion of these studies, Government and TPDC agreed to
review the study recommendations with the Association, for implementation
as appropriate.
77.       Implementation of the rehabilitation of Songo Songo Wells SS-3
and -4 is expected begin shortly and to be completed by November 30, 1985.
TPLC agreed to appoint by October 1, 1985 contractors to carry out the
Songo Songo Wells SS-5, -7 and -9 protective works (paragraph 62(1)) which
would be expected to be completed by March 30, 1986 (Schedule 2, draft
Project Agreement). TPDC agreed to submit by September 30, 1985,
implementation proposals for the product distribution measures (paragraph
58), to the Association for review, with a view to implementing these
measures over an 18-month period from November 1985. With reference to the
exploration promotion component, LPDC agreed to appoint exploration
promotion consultants by November 1, 1985. In addition, TPDC agreed by
September 30, 1985 to solicit from the seismic acquisition and exploration
companies concerned detailed joint venture proposals for TPDC participation
in -'eculative seismic programs (paragraph 63(2)), to be submitted to the
As.iciation for review. TPDC agreed that implementation of the proposals
as reviewed with the Association would commence as soon as possible after
the conclusion of that review (Schedule 2, draft Project Agreement).
Implementation of the institutional development programs (paragraph 74)
would begin following review of the programs between the Borrower and the
Association not later than January 1986 in the case of MWEM, and not later
than May 1986 in the case of TPDC. A timetable for project implementation
is shown in Annex 6 (Schedule 2, draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
78.       The goods and services provided for under the project would be
procured under the following procedures:



- 2i -
Limited
Project     International   International                   Individual
Component   Tendering        Shopping        Consultants   Negotiation   Total
- US$ '000 Equivalent  ------------
Civil Works    3900                 -                                        3900
Equipment &
Materials       2800             1630                             -          4430
Studies                                          1400                       1400
Consultant
Services
& Training         -                              900             -          900
TPDC Partic.
in Joint Vent.
Exploration       -                 -               -           370          370
b700             1630            2300           37U 01005
of which
Association
financed       5100               600            1900           400         8000
79.       Quotations for the civil works required to rehabilitate Wells
SS-3 and -4 (paragraph 62(1)) have already been invited by TPDC from three
of the limited number of specialist contractors able to undertake this
work. The award would be made to the lowest evaluated bidder. The civil
works required to protect Wells SS-5, -7 and -9 would also be procured on
the basis of limited international tendering because of the specialist
nature of the work, and the urgent need for its completion. Equipment for
the product distribution measures would be procured by the oil marketing
companies (in the case of tires through the General Tire Company of
Tanzania), or Tiper or TRC in accordance with international shopping
procedures since this equipment is readily available off the shelf, and
made up of low value items. Equipment for the CNG pilot scheme would be
procured by TPDC on the basis of limited international tendering because of
the specialist nature of the equipment required and, in the case of CNG
buses, because of the need for standardization in the Dar es Salaam public
bus service fleet. The consultancy services required under the project
would be retained by TPDC on the basis of the Bank Group Consultant
Guidelines. Certain components of the gas development study would be
subcontracted out to consultants already having specialized Knowledge of
specific sections of that study. The TPDC participation in joint venture
exploration programs would be procured by individual negotiation with the
companies proposing to carry out those programs, in order to mobilize
private sector financing for a substantial part of the program costs.



- 28 -
Disbursement
80.       On effectlveness of the credit, the subloan made by the Tanzanian
Investment Bank to TPDC out of the proceeds of IDA Credit 1060-TA to
finance the rehabilitation of Wells SS-3 and -4 would be refunded out of
the proposed credit, at an estimated cost of about US$1.25 million
excluding contingencies. The proceeds of the disbursement would be
refunded to Credit Account 1060-TA. The credit proceeds would be disbursed
against 100% of eligible foreign expenditures for all project components.
Disbursement in respect of the product distribution measures, CNG
demonstration scheme, and speculative exploration programs provided for
under the project would, in each case, be subject to the conclusion of
implementation arrangements satisfactory to the Association (Schedule 1,
paragraph 3, draft Developmeent Credit Agreement). As overall project
implementing agency, TPDC would be responsible as authorized Government
representative for preparation and submission of withdrawal applications to
IDA for all goods and services to be financed under the project. In the
case of goods or services procured by TRC, Tiper or the oil marketing
companies on behalf of TPDC, the agencies concerned would submit the
original suppliers invoices to TPDC for attachment to the withdrawal
applications relating thereto (paragraph 68).
81.       In order to expedite disbursements, agreement was reached during
negotiations that a Special Account would be established by the Borrower in
an external commercial bank in the United States and would cover all
categories of expenditure except retroactive financing of Songo Songo Wells
SS-3 and -4. TPDC would contract for the SS-3/4 well rehabilitation
provided for under the project, using funds lent on an interim basis by the
Tanzanian Investment Bank under Credit TA-1060. The Special Account would
be designated in U.S. Dollars, and would be established with an initial
deposit of US$0.5 million equivalent, representing about 3 months of
average projected disbursements, exclusive of US$1.25 million allocated to
the rehabilitation of Wells SS-3 and -4. The Special Account would be
administered by TPDC as Government's authorized representative. TPDC would
request replenishment to the Special Account from the Association using
standard disbursement procedures.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
82.      TPDC would be responsible for maintaining separate accounts,
including a breakdown between capital and operating expenditures, for those
project components being implemented by TPDC, and for ensuring that the
agencies implementing the remaining project components were maintaining
equivalent accounts. TPDC would submit annual financial statements audited
and certified according to generally accepted auditing procedures by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Association within nine months of
the end of each of the borrower's financial years. TPDC would submit to
the Association at the end of each month a brief progress report as to
project implementation, and at the end of each calendar quarter a detailed
written progress report, in each case in form satisfactory to the
Association. TPDC would submit to the Association, not later than six
months after Closing Date of the Credit, a Project Completion Report
relating to all project components.



- 29 -
Environmental Impact
83.      Elimination of the destructive potential to life, energy resources
and capital assets, by rehabilitation of Songo Songo Wells SS-3 and -4
cannot be over-emphasized.  Measures designed to improve petroleum product
distribution would have no negative environmental impact. The studies to
be undertaken under the project would take cognisance of the need for
appropriate environmental protection.
Project Benefits and Risks
84.       The project would put about 40 road tankers and about 55 retail
and consumer product outlets back into operation in key agricultural areas,
thus reducing costly delays in agricultural production and transportation.
The project would save about US$500,000 annually by reducing product losses
at bulk storage terminals in Dar es Salaam, and would also save about
US$300,000 annually through the sale of LPG currently being flared at the
Tiper Refinery. Essential measures are also being provided to protect the
Songo Songo Reservoir, which is Tanzania's only proved hydrocarbon
resource. In the longer term, the project would assist Government to
rationalize the overall product distribution system, as well as to identify
priorities for the rehabilitation of the petroleum product transportation
network. The project would assist Government to develop a strategy for the
utilization of its indigenous resources, and to maintain the private sector
exploration effort in prospective areas still available for license. The
project would contribute to the more effective implementation of Government
policies in all of these areas through the institutional strengthening of
the Energy Department of ?WiA and of the national oil company.  Due to the
dangerous condition of Wells SS-3 and -4, any rehabilitation operation will
carry a smiuel risk of explosion.  The contractors carrying out the
rehabilitation would, however, be fully qualified and experienced in this
type of work and every precaution to avoid any accident would be taken.
Poor conditions of roads and rail stocks may limit the benefit of increased
product availability of product distribution measures provided under the
project. In the longer term, this risk would be mitigated to a large
extent by the Government's proposed development program which places
increased priority on the rehabilitation of infrastructure (paragraph 38).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
85.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and TPDC, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section L(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors -separately.
86.       Provisions contained in the draft Credit and Project Agreements
of particular importance are noted in paragraphs 66 through 77 of this
Report and those of a special nature are :-Iso listed in Section III of
Annex III. The appointment of a project coordinator, would be a special
condition of effectiveness for the proposed credit (Section 5.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement and referred to in paragraph 75 of this



- 30 -
Report). Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this Report.
87.       I am satlsfled that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 10, 1985



- 31 -                                                JANNEX I
*  ABLE  1^                                          Page  1 of  6
TANZI  UNITD REP. OP- SOCAL INICAOR  DATA S
TANZANIA UNITEDREP. OPREPREC  GOUPS CHEICHD AVERACER) a
- lT                      MOST RECNT  STINATE)
19611a!       LOWQt  ICTINAT!   s   ArCA   MIDDLE    K
issaLb     i9mLk *rnTwA&           SOUTH or BANAnLA     AFRICA *. Ornu
AM  (TOAm  SQ. m)
TOTAL                              945.1       945.1    945.1
AGRICULTURAL                       361.1      B39.2    401.9
_ ISS CAPITA (USJ)                     70.0       120.0    230.0 c            249.1                   1112.9
E9S EamTms a CAlPITA
CKILOCRAMN OP OIL EXUIVALEM)        17.0        50.0     50.0               63.6                    529.0
POMAS1011 AMB VIfr.SO  tl
POPULATLON.NID-EAR (T1OUSAD3)     0L201.0    13300.0  19763.0
URIN POPULATION CE OF TOTAL)         4.8         6.9     12.9               19.2                    29.7
PIOPULATON rROKCT1ONS
POPULATIUK IN TER 2000 (HILL)                          36.4
SrATLONARY POPULATION (HtLL)                          117.0
POPULATION NONENT                                       2.0
FOFIILATLON brANSITY
PERK SQ. X0.                       1O.6       14.1     20.2               32.5                     55.6
PEZR q. IM. AGII. LAND            26.6        33.4     47.6              119.2                    111.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCrURE (I)
0-14 UIS                          42.7       44.4     46.2               43.6                     45.4
15-64 Y35                         54.3        52.5     50.B               31.5                    51.7
45 AN AOVE                         3.0         3.1      3.0                2.9                      1.9
POPULATION GROUTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.7      3.3                2.8                      2.6
UKUN                               5.0         6.3      6.5                6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PR THU)           46.6        44.6     46.9               45.6                     47.0
CRUDE DEATH ItATE (PER THOUS)       22.4        15.6     1A.5               17.7                     15.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION BIATE             3.0         3.1      3.2                3.2                      2.2
AMILY PLUNNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNIIUAL (TIOUS)         ..          ..     93.6 Ia
USERS CI OF HARRIED W1HN)            ..        ..
looe ta  inzrzo
INDEX OF FOOD  OD. PEE CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       95.0       104.0     88.0               85.8                    91.6
PEk CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIRENEErS)      90.0        91.0     83.0               66.4                     96.2
PROTElNS (GEARS PUR DAT)          46.0        49.0     46.0               49.9                    56.7
or WElCH ANIMAL AND PULSZ        16.0       21.0     20.0 la            1U.3                     17.0
CHILD (AGS 1-4) DEATH RATE          31.0        24.0     16.4               23.8                    18.7
LIFE EXECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        41.5        46.5     52.0               48.4                    51.7
INFJANT tORT. RATE (PR THOUS)      144.0       122.0     98.0              117.5                   102.7
ACCESS TO SAE MATER (%PIP)
TOTAL                               ..        13.0     39.0 ft            21.8                     35_6
tRsAN                               _.        61_0     86.0 /T            61.5                     54.1
RURIAL -L                                      9-0     36.0 iF            14.2                    27.3
ACCESS TO ESRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..     17.0 if            32-0                       -
URN                                             . -    38.O if            69.2
IElURAL                             ..         ..      14.0 /i            24.8                       .
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         16220.0    22240.0  17560.0 /u          27477.8                  11948.3
POP. PER NRHSING PERSON          11890.0/jbh 7160.0   2980.0 re           3396.2                  2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BO
TOTAL                            600.0 /jL   720.0    500.0 1e          1089.0                    986.9
URBAN                             60.0        60.0     80.0 if           395.2                   368.7
RURAL                            1530.0 j       ..   1190.0 re          3094.0                   4012.1
AZlSSIOIIS PER HOSPtTAL BED           ..         ..
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLO
TOTAL                                *-        4.4 1     .
URBAN                              3.1 I1      3.2 if     .
RURAL                               *-         4.5 if   5.3 Jf
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/IROO
TOLAL                               ..          ..
SMBN                               1.8         ..         -                                          .
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. C1 or Dh lEINS)
TOTAL                               -.          -           -
R                               ...             ._
RWtAL                               -. -.                .                  . 



-32-                                                       ANN  I
T AB LE 3A                                                  Page  2  of  6
TANAJIA.UNITED REP. 0F- SOIL INCATOS DATA NEXT
ANS-A     UIE R. OF                 R ENE GROUPS (WhRONhD 93385) p
MST                      (MT UNRCERT UTZNAS)
/ CENT         LOW INCU  AFRICA         mi     
196O/b  1mn0/b xsTizsz/b           ow    oi Aum          AFICA S. OF I
EDUCATION
ADJUSTOD IISOLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMRY;  TOTA                      25.0       39.0    102.0                69.2                     91.0
L&                      33.D        47.0    107.0               78.8                     90.5
10LC                    lB.0        31.0     96.0                8.3                     14.8
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    2.0        3.0       3.0               13.1                     17.4
MALE                     2.0         4.0      4.0                17.6                    23.7
FINllALE                 1.0         2.0      3.0                8 3                     14.3
vOCATIONAL (2 or SEcoNARY)           22.6                  1.6                7.2                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            4.0        46.0      43.0               46.                      36.6
SECONDRY                           20.0       18.0      19.0               25.9                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (C)               9.5 /     28.1 /tI  7S.0               44.3                     35.6
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           2.4        2.5       2.6 /a             3.8                     20.7
IDIO RCCIVERS/TNOUSA   POP            2.0       11.3      27.0               41.9                    100.B
TV RECEIVENS/T!RU8AND POP                        D.        0.4                2.0                     18.5
NEWSPAPER CDALY GENUAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             2.5        4.7      10.3 h              5.4                     17.2
CINEMA ANNAL ATTENDANC/CAPITA         0.5         *        0.2 /e             1.4                      0.3
LA7O roCa
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TCTUS)          4735.0     5842.0   8004.0
FEKALE (ERCENT)                    37.2       36.7      36.1               36.5                     33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.0       86.0      83.0               77.4                     57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCCNT)                  4.0        5.0       6.0                9.8                     17.4
PARTICIPATION SATE (PERCENT)
TOTAl                              46.4       43.9      40.5               41.0                     36.3
mALE                               59.1       56.3      52.7               52.1                     47.6
FEMALE                             34.0       31.8      28.7               30.2                     25.1
ECONIC DEPeNDENCY RATIO               1.0        1.1       1.2                1.2                      1.4
X3C   DIBSDIBUTIO
PERCEIUT OF PRIVATE INCQGE
RECEIVED BT
HICHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..       24.7
BICESTS 20S OF OUOSEdOLDS            ..       50.4
LOWZST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        5.3
LOWEST 4AC OF NOUSEHOLDS             ..       16.0
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOE
LEVEL (US) PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..         ..    147.0 /1            168.3                    525.3
RURAL                                ..         ..    l09.0 iT             90.8                    249.0
ESTIMrED RELATIVE POVERTY NE
LEEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..         ..    125.0 /1            107.7                    477.4
RURAL                                ..         ..      74.D Ir            65.0                    186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCXIE LEVEL (S)
URBAN                                ..         ..      10.0 /1            34.7
RURAL                                ..         ..      60.0 /i            65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OT E S
Is  The group averages for each Indicator are population-ueihted aritbtetic mans. Covernig of countries Sang the
Indicatorm depend on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted  -D ta for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970- betwen 1969 and
1971; and data for lEost Recent Estimte- between 1980 and 1982.
/c   Mainland Teanzs-a only; ld 1976; le 1977; /f 1975; /1 1962; /b Registered, not all practicing In the country;
/L 1967; /j 1958; /k 1979; /1 1973.
JUNE, 1984



- 33 -                                                                                              AINNE I
-rvTi    mIAm esetlAw                                                                                 Page  3  of  6
tea,-  witbwp  lb  deli ill dtii  In. wa. Mmap-wi.ll   w m lld ak.teor .etbtllwlet hwls  -zolmbi.. it ebiid  i..- I. wall elb.  lI                    tn         th. ,Oeu iut,el,
w.e,be   Iew."'.  C. 1 lb   1.01    wiis.5ia    jeleeliew..m wted moe-gpiw  wa  by dillinwi "wails1 C u .lWIl ill.  lbi..                  d PP"  ww      bIONIC. w.wflw  I.
dIhit  Ptdn  e  ajwlewodw,aIl.         Comma1 w5I wbloill.riww  aelw       I" iw  jifllouilbw 1         wi*i tinurm.
VWke .wa.eyy In.vp." fit ChS. lea   weer ipalyl.pm!  loty  l..lPOKI    ol twie.iei P  -51 V l         11..  .1d IMI  wloomol Id vabt-IMblP  Mlmo.lm.rdat 111o. ll-lillnl      t
"tIwll.i"'         ii.tCl..no gta.    wee Sb wse..a wy.    AmI.l. 'Wttgi  wrIlyP. hA,- Pl n10.h ISmPai B.w  w_   shmly abe ..-..le   atl   wate.. 
wte.p b.v IwIw  twa- *b    Bud.   we...It. ca-i.e. it  wapoolotiti     OPIinlC w Ch ee.. dwpw.d. - h Cb itibt'llp-S    t  .. Ibom   i    uwl luitwl.1 lInt., alers C .
.u_eie b    .ten.  ....ar     a  Mt,    I_. uiNl C. ._w     r ..e. MI .b.A wlb.w   wilya.e..   1*hm vatru   lba .tt lowi I -Ies. moI  moiflr. IwAMI                   abortwe.tr
C.IPR1    14. s.   C  .5. m-             .10,e.mmlp.I-     -Uf   "-Vt.. .                       Pw      rllid Co. ~.ewl  mtil -   Fw1.lee a  . devle  by mlale oh.    enllj i.
It.ii. M. .g llwl.t-. Who .-l .4  .1tq            ....i  qa  hoot.e.,e            ww(ws.w l.e. ae ul."No.I. .              1 wwle.e   t  ow"' paIe.I e      .w
If9*     ewr., wCll  w  hlb  wtwaa   .  c  ilwiellf*Iwtaaw   111
MN 1115's lie  dell                                                                              bwlhwJl                     lwh:whe                 li.      ft..ea  (al
ItaliggglIgn.1 - R."ohm. .1 qz.I-Ii ..a.,                                                  IdI         bye    I ylapwette vi.....  t brwpleal bd
W,.-.ftjI~Dh      - 1 il  taplI vilIwli   il-t        IL..w     F.lt.i pdIvi.                tall.h   11v11gleeiw.e   Swviladhwle
IRIM    P                                                                                                                          -p~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n- sldd.bl w.lew ~..lwiiwit.b ad
ieIlUlmiilWteil NI  I*lf   - liI.AiwI  U lf .lall       Alle-   .1.i.iwl bndi.ii evotawin  - Plam .a1wihl   ltlad .     iot a ebyw1hilew hu P.                     IV wdald
it"at.aIwtl mowi "a 6:               wtwwm    wltt  s I    $r-  atwe                               ailaM  * winh..  dlgl. we.lntIwl.O14oma    ew-peleile"Pi w        111s, Psis-
IS d.ibwwl   iaeyt,lyl  i blnraw  .  -I  vqleilel  .?  wpil~   Sll,Pelie . e hulled  nawet    ll hPt.tilietww,                      tl"    tlt 
lSlw~~~~~~ .wd hill l"'..li.                                     .1 tdm.   oow"   omPOMPOPwll a-wimt Dr  .1m.iwwla                                      oo Ian dl. mb mlya
9--,-   = --    1. II Im-  -1 .1 1.1 P        1111." lW,. -pl., laLl.                p.4. .Slit d NllW.vl  PFhw d-I  l-RORP.t[i                             dn
Nt.. twa  I    wyVal.   Ill  -wl .IIwbbrel.e   ,yl,la                                                                       .1 I1illtw!    1%liil                      e 4tlwtiw
dIltom ifil  diPIlw.    ~ wt.m   twt.aewllyw   e.I    hl   l                                                         e.  Ia  to.lw  -.*  Isr  -ya  a    al1   illajdI
waINl  wllilww   (trC..1COLO wi..                                                                dmd3 dli.  1 1 . Iwe MOS.. t A wleelwllval                     6 I.tpwuau.
11      i~liI pylih   pseiii   ebv A...4ZZ?2l                                           W19.,i-. ".elm..Iyb..itliita   lb
spl   ut    vltl.  -Wl -w-t Imll  wwlllvl., wIwllwi                                                                                                             moIA~elas   eln.wi   lvellyI   liwwi..-ytllll
pewL.= vri.w..  havl       ltw  I. ...  atwm    a .5  bwei
flinrnI_l     -1 -F-            bpt   t 1_ Is fit-ywit.-  _twlya                                                 I sl.1          w     -.eti.,fl  il   al
tltlubiewab-ad.,n      aapeld    Il ..-.wtll  lese.y-                                            11lwii 1Iltwiilw.sIl ii.liI-
lvi. hll isles.niq  tu.Is      yelavwil bte  ue                                   ptwir  .rlw.we  pel-lla, w.ll   l WliwIvI mlt, aw  b-IPl
ewp..dvet .v.1I.1w  evI pywL-      i Iwi.-  tw~ l1IeLI ta   Lw  a.                        m- btidjnlv   Fa- Aliltw--  laft.h  ii  "ttiy.lielmo I.t
Iswd wa aI  l. dewtb  I-. , lb wile w- -i  I. ik_ va-aws  ISIt.                                  siitth  .leb ,euloyia  wI--el  vuri --        wi  ay-7Im a      mw   e   P.,-
d-L   wI-    L.i.  Thw uitep y.p.-w Ia  lea.wlwsda   e                                        L.lt law  P.llSO it,Ie  Iti          wlb  .11.1.1ule          i.
1w.wp~ ilui  b.      ilitw.IIM  ~a.I.  twtbdvul,.  toiitIl-l?                          j w l.1      I d.                    P.d
sll     ,,mlwlwIty  Iywlllu .1w e I. Iewllll I. lbqei f t...                             "M"!d eobw.iT ~ lll   tuittnt-ill  eti
lb ll,,vailww  .1w1 Istelliet t.wil.w  al ~~~-lwtelv.  Lw.ol raw ywit L             iswy.pwdva , PI      dytaaw.   .alt    wl.l-
io~.lsta   10111  lilt.  s  Isa,  .1w                                                 aeltt tI---          Satti 'll  - L.ts -.1. matw  IlalI. 5. ned Is nI-I..
Siy   19711:..  MY ad  1911 IwIw
r.vwlillm 1ev Sliwi't.rl litta-tult - CIlIltaw i-lld-    -tewi wwhw..aw-  Ill-             1--il.
iv1.wlei  CiuIl Setiwtlw  -e l - b Iaett  till-i   lwvw  sI-ulewt lIli
yltIliltmit1Iti   9-.   s,t-C,wd.utluwl. sbm.w -senlmW t.i   p- al   ywir  Mal ntwl.sw  la  tw-1
C,md.    t teh  It ertal    rb1- .il  taI  tlu  1ibaCirwtmut.nalelil   lribw                                                                     alywwwlwjewld
C.aulw   a  191.1   9111.I  11 0-w.                                                          I -iCw t.pwl.t LI-1. vatt.wi I.ya   0 tlwilw.5ti.
pr.ltbwl    ml.wal-nwl1w   1.1                                 bia   iil-m.a   uwtt1l. Gtttnrdv.   m   m   ota.ebte  win. 
Ire.SewI P.. It lwuwdI    le..altlwl. -   iIat.d w  .ldt..                   lbSt.l.rtlwv ll.wd .Luitl.,h-15Ohv..Wi  latItwdlapa.
rW.i tpwale    w..It                itli  aI.d4itwne.1   wtI                                       arlr. ad  I..,yvvw  S. isIwlIwlIw   -v 11hlvww in. lu  pIv
wi   .ultp.-.It lC .ldI   bsytwv    rw.   .mvtrbwntCr.aluI. s%.Oft   dLlw.ww   w.aul pvlm                                                  ,.- lI1en   lb 1saV11
11111.                                                               .llIi.lla  d.m..d~~~~~~t  PP-will  II lww- l.  mili        .It1  ,.wle
tra..                                                                                           ilelivy         R    -7     d  MIdk. .  wwld -.1~   Itol pIerf  -ild9  ".d.l.iw    tI.. Iti-I   rIt--a
,.y.lw  Iwl s  .1 ul..wulll  w-1w1m1I L -alwp. fitlv rl "'-wi     -
yatwi se.011011101vwqiw,ehv; Intl.  91wdIs  lt dLiP.                                                                                         -.   b,C
Its.. i y.iWF.w. li.i  vi Ca ICe             L.1- 11,    - 1 1.. e   e.t   tlla        ;lmeA!ytt - F.ll ml               o l.-v    Pmpm.r,vIaa   it  well swtwi om rat,1
mi..e   rdtl..   I  l.   s- l.    rd.l.-sa                           w..  ld                                          -tebLIirI  lali.    .n.l, MtoIw.  Ist
lvdidI  .iawdlsPtII.tillaee  ylat    meI...ImVmlI-Ireh ewewvwt. wIe.el lai.  yet,.  190 Ilat                                                              Itld
wiit  *wlvd .  aawitPle  ie  v.11.lidv.pel  wuraisw1 l.-I..ldip    wrvl     l                                  .-tv  Lw wIll...t-a.lr.wtlau         - .iile-wr.eI
pit.,Idi.aowwdl,ldvawetlt  a   t, P.uii-lr. Ce rletLl-lly-  wwlvrIse.Ilt                                                        rv wt w" 15biwll htttv    t,lt
batS el wiul.i.il wI-hey q".d .l  vitaI i.veisN.i 19111  tat   .  11                      sIC    u.
lele.                                                                                           i.tlp.-w.vem   iy6tav      llL91,wdIwL  -trIllI.a
twtliitlavr. .   e,rla  atiul iirweitliail   Ciyald  rs              irtllttliwwi  OMwe             ".d    5.1.1A. wil.     taI   iiFta  a
Inlet vqall.evt -it lItbId  walyllw     hrl  6plvrwil,  lIt vMM     v                    alMll  5111    ilI    wwt  ivlea  5il    t   ..vte
Mv Is  P--.1.1 tlba lww                                        -I'yllI..  w   Il~dI   vts  tii li
Pat tail. waitS .        .1 til lea    iItI      tiwur1ti   1II  ilwtttile   IFl.t   it    CI.IbIt P.% et 115 ---d  tIle   b   tlow
Cbt  .wtl  .t.l  ,v  w-tr.t..lwdl eviw.  II lIl-.  L.-                                        M"vwtim tIrtI.It-    yve..  lru  l11t            0w,ii         lwilb  wi prl wFI
atieup  l.r-   l ri.ilv.  ti.bll   1w. dNli-pivd  lit idS-'I.                                  l.matlCw.9                          f"                    _        P
lilwv eiial.. wt wilt I.* atiw  i-IIe toewtwil *twlll.  lliawCrItytt-1111 .11011
Thr r1- a11ml;11111   ll   d1aa   il                                                             tAIeniw  ebail-   ft.wft Iotam        etl        v   nss     th    sst
O41.                                                                                     lIP-  lk
= -PI, (I_.:mP. I_-                                                                                                              mm~~~~~~Io  01  i5nutilt  igly  .1  t  ltw   .   tl  lotpem.m
lea    elIy   t. ttltwiwdi-n.h  e.iib Ibi tt.  e- I  en
11Wtor illp.ipl ltal  itse  Is- taII p-1   t-mlwpiIe erit. iwwt .                                                                        Cwre.   elwwwd5wCwwa
alIMntI -erp.ewed  tIMt                           dtyfla  plillIat     I...



-34  -                                         ANNEX 
,upatta.   . 19.7 dIll. (vd-l)                                                                                 Pagm 4 of 6
0W Nb   -     13260 (DI
UFAIUA - iDf 
Amms                     ~~~~~~Aumil bm1 Quot bram CE)
(d to.  $ at
S p)                 _cOd                        _
191    1   1S76 is77   1             79   LW       19M     liE          Is        19K .n     13
gem dnt1e raiadtj                 5097.0         7.9    6.6    L6    3.5    L6        O7      -3.2        .0.5       2.         3.1
AplaaImr.                       2336.4         4.9     .     5.4    0.7    4.7   -62        -7          -1.0       4.0        4.0
!ziuerg                          677.2         9.7    6.5  -4.1   13.9  -9.1   -10.9   -13.2            -3.0       2.0        2.5
mwk.s                           1515.6         7.0    7.6    .2  Z2.6               6.4      3.1        .0.0       20         2.5
Comuitl                           4660           1.0   13.0   1.1   -7.9    6.8    -7.3    -L0             1.1       5.1       L2
(        tau  u                   1024.3        12.5    1.2    9.2   20.2  -13.6       0      4.6        -11.1     .0.3       -20
giqmt cc Ms                        556           3.9  --=7      .3   12I2    0.6    12.5   -21.9           7.5      -9.7       4.3
rlm  of OWl                       1157.5       -12.9    0.3   31.5  -17.4   -0.4   -7.0   -1Z              0.2      -1.4      -L9
GCr       b                        42L3        136.   -4.   -40.8  139.6  -3.0    47    -13.4             -6L1      -0.3        7.8
Ga addatDr (19786100)                           77.7   9L0  100.0  105.5  114.0   12.2    140.3          14.8      156.5      176
ftftW   e. (T.S. PWMS)                           8.4    63    7.7  R.3    8.2         63      9.3         113       17.0       17.0
saw  of GO at 1k    Mm  (CI)             __ Amami b=M  m
t9ZX  I4S   ; 5            1W         V5   t =    1              1           1M
Ga_ d t  Wc /                        100.0    10.0   100.0    100.0  1OD.0           4.7         2.8           1.9           3.7
Aflnaz.                             36.5    36.9    45.6    46.4   47.5            2.1         1.5     Z      .5           4.4
habotq                              15.5    14.5    13.3       4.2     4.2         3.7        -LI           0.6            3.4
SKVICW                              37.2     3.0   29.7       3L1    37.2          6.5         4.8           1.5           3.4
conew_itim                            79.7    91.4   91.7       6.1    81.2          7.2         1.9          3.2            3.1
-n,rnm                           22.5    21.1   20.1       16.4    17.5        0.1          4.         -4.2            2.5
Iazu GWS                              5S.1     19.8   10.9    14.2    17.0          4.6         -22           07             7.9
qre anS                               2LI      3L3    22.7      16.7    1.8          0.4        -2.3         -1.4            2.6
1km dntek mvW                         2Z.5       6      6.3     12.0    14.4      -1.4           44          -04             7.7
AaX of CM
WIl   1178 13
Quie  x.au                         17.8    19.3   21.6
0u-=a a1equr                       16.3   18.3   2.6
8up2  (+) or   ct(-)                1.5      1.0  -7.0
Wtal        fla_rn                 7.8     9.8   16.0
1!dp fhumd                          2.9       1    8.6
1970-75     1975-82    19825   19854-0
QGP FWt. =O CZ)                  4.7          2.8        L8        3.8
OF pr  .a> w athg zua  (2)        1.4        -0.5       -0.3C/    0.6
3M                                3.6         L4        11.4       4.7
1Na _nal rnhwU ge                -0.4         0.4       -0.2       0.3
lit dintldty                     0.08        -0.82      -0.7       0.7
t/ PreLimInarl estizate.
T,/ kmzm;m
Atm'tym;cWe-w                              a  awct



-35  -                                                     AMX I
PFap 5 of 6
?RelAtI        19.7 g11) (Id-ISM)
Sw Fur Cqia mm Ct)
TUAL- MilML 33 a/
hMLul hael (Matb Pa= 
hzdlmwr              Cili1W   13$ at                          (at ata  1976 Lin)
-n=   Pd-)               A__         __               _     _
19go          1976   N78  1978   197      I       1911     19112 111 Ill
my ~
3hzdcv m    .w                   444.1          7.7  -21.7   -3.5   14.5   -1.8    10.1   -16.6          8.8      -9.8        5.1
3Idor w'my      aN             357.8          9.4   20.   4.8    2.8  -65    42LZ  i0.0                8o     -10.2        7.6
Otlm                            85.3          LS   .6       16.4  43.3    9.9  -37.0    -9.8           13.4     -LT        -1.3
1whm&           11 0 X LI6                    -16       .71L 3L6  -17.0   -L3    -52  0-L2                        -1.8       -3.4
F    <aaZu                     10M1          46.5  -31.9  -0.6  -482  3S.3   -9.2   -14.4             -7.9    -33.7       -50.0
IEb s                          2487          21.4  -1.5    4.1  -1L6   27.1  -15.5   -18L7             13.7      1.2        0.0
1hddasq oIa  q'izt             39L2         -14.5   26.9   5LI 21   .8  -2.5    14.8    -.3            -66       0.0       -24
Ctm                            361.6        -17.0    3.8   20.1  -224   -7.7   -13.1       9.9        -0.7       4.0        2.6
No=t jwIe Snt                    111.0         84.5  114.6  I00.   107.3  114.2   157    111.0         13.4       963       10L3
T pm luai                        174.0         IL3   5L9  100.0  12466  1441   143.6   174.0           175.1    155.6      164.4
d o        le 63.3                            107   23.4  1.0   a1   79.3    73.6   68                 76.8      63.1       662
Cmit d   1dm Am  2m. CX)                              A       ..Aa1 7      CZ)
(atant 'C                                       at V      1978  ig)
:3m                               o100.0   100.0    i.0o   1000    100.0           -4.2          -1 S           2.1          8.2
N-)ar P1-7 PWa8ta                 592  6S.3  6 9.0           73.2     71.6        -1.0         -2.2            1.4         7.5
-                                 40.8    33.7    31.0    16.8        3.4       -10      S     -0.4           0.4         12
Tmpm"                              100.0   100.0   100.    10.0        1u           L9           -L.8          -0.3         2LS
Foaaipudu                          7.7     17.7     9.4      3.5      L         23.4          -&3           -24          -9.4
tila                               3.1      8.0    12.0    124         LI         40           -4.6           0.3          0.1
-:ddbly  ad qa4i                   3.2    3L1         S     4.4       43.1        -1.1          2.7           0.7          2.3
:                                  LO54.0    43.2    A1     41.6      44.3        0.9          -3.7           3.3          3.6
-~ cf =kW                     Ms   ,Eh 9    idtih                    Mm   o Tva  wIdt
u~~~~~~~~~~~N-0   IN DSEW    1M 
MM U*0
o54O    47.4    560            0.0    48.9      37.4              0.6          3.6         LO
Iqcta                             57.9    58.0    6.2            27.3    34.8    23.2               1.2          6.2          3.9
*/a      for al        sa OWmfmau ad Zmuibgr)
/ -t



-36 -
Fag. 6 of 6
TEVA1A - IMM 01AM.   UL WNP  An
7=00mtw                      1970   1975   1979 Mr   W      3  w1           W7 IS  Wl-                 am
blqmtt Cedpod   wn                  346    51B    632    733    774         y       GM      6          723   1
iddu   IKd_    f.o.b.            252    376    41       376    m        4        477     501        E      1146
7qis       at Pak ad swli           15    No    1269   1412   1301        1136    1t2      116        1313    917
et _iCIa  KdM           cdJ.      318    770   1144    22    1175    1110        1 US     I         13 7    1743
Not tlgam~b/                         6    -10      19      19      23      D)       21      22         23      3D
Cuaam     lsa                       -24   -61    418   438    40M          40      410       1D      -6      -482
Of01ala p.S  awd%ma                   7    112    146    109    204         93      145      163       ISO    170
K & LT I       (Mt)                  73    171    136    132    214        1D       312     37         35    322
of ial                             72    171    14I      17    213        119     2        170       23    322
Fdkam                               2      -      -.       4       1       1       a        7         1      -
Oed   weLta./                         9     66    -46    399       94      341      213     235        170      3D
Q.w In s_   (- a iUM           I   47    -17    290         -2     -9       51      -0       40 -0 -            0
X       _acoll x_e                   3 S9    130    46      91    107       44      14      14         223    44
%_      -   leu bqaxto/               3.7    2.0    0.5    0.9    1.1        0.5      1.0    L          2.0    2.8
10ML CJIL AD MA
{   dtbbib      A                    50    344    317    297    43         35D
Cflcd1 a                            6    112    146    1N9         4      95
c      _aicau  l1a                 40    191    106    110    21          7
O-:/                             D       IS     64      3D      69      53
a*ff                              -    -    -    3   17    2
MIa                               9      30     24      35      M       65
-dar                             11      81      18     32      57      67
on i _l   la                       14      41     65      78      43      Gs
l!fdIeqota                          -       1     45      2       11      29
I                                   5      40     17      22  U           10
ab_ m,lllainal                      -      -       -       -      4        6
m-a                                 9      -              29      11      23
- az Ia       g  d dl.u1d         323    798   1141   133    147    1I18
ffdl                            193    747 1198   1.211  1410    137
pId_                            13n      51     43      77      96      81
umbuud dk                         409    419    546    919    921     1012
Th  eatmt   pWm=s                  26      29     33      52      54     113
ltanng                           10      11      18     31      27      38
1WMOU i       SZ                    7.5    5.9    6.1    7.2    7.0    20.2
Aor       t      rate ma   1    (C) 1.6    3.0    2.6    L3    2.4           4.0
Off Wal                             1.5    3.0    2.6    1.8    2.4        2.5
Ekivate                             7.0    -       -       9.4    -        7.6
_mr~ _inuty d am lm  Cya) 3.8    32.6   35.4   27   32.1    30.7
(ffidalI                           39.7   32.6   35.4   29.9   32.1    35.5
PAM"                                7.2    -       -      10.9    -       13.6
An 2 of 1j&t GUtemdhg
at Ab of I
HadtV uuwe aE &k agatug
Nide1m da  tdla 5 yu                                              47.2
e      _zt    d    tdIhdn 10 3mmu                                 46.6
rjeit sun     x E oet
htac       a   td  tn fist yaw                                     2.8
V/ Rk1q offldal pX= rmcem.
t/adibg  afg.. =gt, -  of BD 31W cr  t, Uw1d Bw  ad Mm .g    I , r 71t fit, errors and
adad.. and build up of arrears.
d/        IW ergt.



-37-
P   1eE 2
SM SS OF BWK MP  0EAnN IN ANUIA
A. SrLM  OF wm uAND Ma 5M  m DWArA
AS (F MOM 31, 1985
Plscid                                                   lama  lcl-
Lio./Cr. No.  Year  Bramr            re                     lk L/ TW      M  1/       w
12 lome, on Thrd Windw Lom, ad 35 Credita
fid1y dishnued. 2/                                   170.86  29.99  384.48
Lu. 1385T-TA  77  Tlxwaa  It, me        xh l iatidal c qp1e       11.50           0.17
-n. L386-TA   78  TzAnia  MIbcgoro IMstrial Complex   11.50                       0.18
Cr.  732-TA   78    Dzmta  Spo-d Site aid Servie                          12.00   0.81
Cr.  743-TA   77  Ta_ana  Trux                                            15.O0   0.06
Cr.  801-TA   78  Tanzuia  Second Cinlmeit                               27.50   6.41
Cr.  803-TA   78  TINIa 11    Aal Dev.    1Q111/sad 81w)                 12.0D   3.S9
In. 1607-TA   78  TaizAa  1xWro lctKle                     25.00                 14.33
Cr.  833-Tk  78  TarAnIA  l*,rogr xr 1atile                              20.00   0.53
Cr.  860-TA   79  Tanzania  Twlam                                         14.00   5.43
Cr.  861-Tk  79  Tanzania  SLcth Ebitlgm                                  12.00   7.00
In. 1650-TA   79 ganaa  Ifiiid Pp aid Paper                30.00                  9.37
Cr.  876-TA   79  Taniw a  Fifth Righqy                                  20.5D   4.56
In. 1745-TA   79  MEL        lwpayekaDev. Fln.  ., Ltd. 11.00                     0.85
In. 1750-TA  80  TIB         TAM1IA Inveitmsct R.k         25.00                  3.82
Cr.  987-TA   80  Talsia          1A Ral Dnr. ck                          7.00   5.57
Cr. 10O7-TA   SD  Ta        EPyithun                                      10.00   5.80
Cr. 1015-TA   80  TAimia Ga ain Stocq  and Millhi                        43.00   37.03
Cr. 1037-TA   80  TanzaniA  SmLhol&r Td                                  14.0D  10.34
Cr. 106-TA   81  Tm-ana  Se&th Edmtim                                    25.00  21.96
Cr. 1060-l   81  Tanzania  TedwdLcal mu1t.wocII                          11.O0   5.0
Cr. 1070-TA   81  Tanzarda    Cnzt Pilot                                  6.80   3.59
Or. 1173D1k  82  T--Dsa        >I                                        27.00   6.42
Cr. 1206-TA   82  TAnania   Tadcical Aastam  M                            12.00   5.68
Cr. 1229-TA  82  Taszada  Sao         Fs II                              12.00   7.U2
Cr. 1312-TA  83  Tanzana  Dar es Sual    S      _eri  amd                22.50  15.93
Sanfatim
Cr. 1370-TA   83  Tanzaa sfindi Pulp  d Pper Mi                          18.00  12.26
Tech. mt. & EtsW Caiv.
Cr. 1371-TA   83  T1A        Caldaigineerhrg                              6.30   5.49
Cr. 1405-TA  84  Tanzara   It    Hydroelectric Pumr                      35.0D  20.14
Cr. 1524-TA   85  Tazaia  Tehaca1 Assistance IV                          10.00  10.00
Cr. 1536-TA   85  Tanzani   Part        tR       3/                      26.2   26.2
Total                                                273.36 41.49      .2256.13
of auhEb bn bre  repaid                             55.97  2.94    .12
Total now atatazding                               27-.39 38.55 795.16
hAmt sold                            6.29
of wbId bo bee ked                 6.29
Total  aw WlA by  kink a MA I/                       217.39 38.55 795.16
Total imdihbuaLmd                                     208.65   .17 227.31  256.13
1/ Net of e mw adjus        -
a In  .tx, Tzania bu  ben tle bInefidamy of 11  I   utalig g            4.8 udlllcm idlh
win ext;eded far tbe dealopt of te cm             servs and develp blk  Iaped
regionaly by Tanza, Kena ad 1pnd  t            tlwf  modatic Iz th  fo    Eat
--r: -' -     Afrc C ,miy
3/ Not yet efective.
          ,-



- 38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANLA
AS OF MAlkCd 31, 1985
Fiscal                                                        Amount in US$ million
Year        Obligor                Type of Business         Loan    Equity    Total
1960    Kilombero Sugar            Food Processing           3.96    0.70       4.66
& 1964     Company
1978    Highland Soap and          Soap Manufacture          1.37    0.37       1.7.4
Allied Products Ltd.
1979    Metal Products            Household Utensils         1.33    0.18       1.51
1985    Amboni Limited            General Manufacturing    3,17        -        3.17
Total gross cc-amitments                             9.83    1.25      11.08
Less cancellation, termination,
repayments and sales                              4.81    0.70       5.51
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                            5.02    0.55       5.57
Total undisbursed                                    1.26      -        1.26



- 39 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOK TSHCNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEST
I.  Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:       Five months
(b)  Project prepared by:                     Government and Consultants
(c)  Identification:                          July 1984
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:           December 1984
(e)  Negotiations:                            April 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           August 1985
II. Special IDA Implementation Action:
The proposed credit includes provision of up to US$1.5 million
retroactive financing to cover expenditures on the rehabilitation of Wells
SS-3 and -4 (paragraph 78).
III. Special Conditions:
(a) As a special condition of effectiveness, TPDC would retain a
Project Coordinator on satisfactory terms and conditions
(paragraph 75); and
Cb) TPDC should regularly iaspect and maintain in a safe operating
condition all Songo Songo wells in accordance with industry
standards (paragraph 70).
(c) Disbursements in respect of product distribution, the CNG
demonstration scheme and speculative exploration programs would be
subject to the following implementation arrangements:
(i)   TPDC would make arrangements by September 30, 1985 with the
oil marketing companies and TRC for the implementation of
the product distribution measures (paragraph 80);
(ii)   approval by the Borrower and the Association of the gas
utilization study with respect to the CNG demonstration
scheme (paragraph 80); and
(iiI)   approval by the borrower and the Association of the terms of
TPDC's participation in the proposed private sector Coastal
iBasin seismic data acquisition and exploration study
programs (paragraph 80).



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Summary of Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration History
1.        Gas was first discovered by Agip in 1978 at Songo Songo, an
offshore island about 250 ku. south west of Dar es Salaam (Map No. IBRD
17580K). Agip, however, decided that the gas reserves were too small for
commercial exploitation, and relinquished the island and surrounding area
from its coastal basin license. Three more wells, Wells SS-2, -3 and -4,
were then drilled on Songo Songo Island by the Oil and Natural Gas
Corporation and India (ONGC) under contract to the national oil company,
Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation.
2. Following the conclusion of the ONGC program in 1978, the Government
requested the assistance of the Association to finance further petroleum
exploration in the area. The anticipated size of the gas reservoir was
still too small to attract private sector interest. However, the previous
wells had shown some indications of liquid hydrocarbons and it was decided
that continued exploration of the field was justified to appraise the
existing gas discoveries and to explore for oil. The Association therefore
agreed to finance a five well program. The first two wells (Wells SS-5 and
-6) were financed by the Association alone (Credit S-27-TA) except for a
small participation by the European Investment Bank. The second three
wells (Wells SS-7, -8 and -9) were financed by the Association (50% of
total foreign expenditures), the Opec Fund (30%) and EIB (20%).
3.        The five well program discovered no oil but succeeded in proving
up a large gas reservoir, the first commercially sized hydrocarbon
discovery '.n the East African Region. Proved reserves are estimated at 725
billion cubic feet of gas, with proved and probable reserves of over 1
trillion cubic feet.1/ Offshore Wells SS-5, -7 and -9 are the principal
gas producers, with onshore Wells SS-3 and -4 capable of limited
production. Well SS-5, -7 and -9 are already completed for production but,
before being put into commercial production, 4 1/2" production tubing
should be pit in place at a cost of about US$3 million. With this
improvement, the Wells should be able to produce at 100 million cubic feet
a day.
4.        Songo Songo gas is very dry with a methane content of 97% and a
maximum of one barrel of water and condensate per mmcfd. Inert C02 and N2
are 1% in volume and no H2S is present. This makes it easy to transport
gas but means that little LPB or other condensates can be extracted.
1/ Songo Songo Project: Final Report of Exploration Consultants Limited
dated August 1983.



-41 -                      Annex V
Project Cost Eutluates
Local      Foreign   Total
US$ '000 Equive ----
Part A    Product Distribution Equipment
Pumps, tires and communications equip.   254             320       574
LPG bottles and related equlpment          236          210        446
490          530      1,020
Product Distribution Study (10 mo)          18           126       144
Part B    Wells SS-3/4 Rehabllitation
Equipment rental (30 days)                  -           560        560
Materials, supplies and mob/demob           -            390       390
Personnel                                   -           260        260
Transportation, subsistence and other    140             40        180
140        1,25      T1.9
Wells SS-5/7/9 Protective Platforms
Engineering                                 -           180        180
Materials and Construction                 500         1.170     1.670
500        1,350      1,850
Gas Utilization Study
Markets and Economic Evaluation
Local staff (36 am)                      140           -         140
Engineers and Economists (18 m)           34          248        282
Preliminary Pipeline Engineering
Engineers, srvyrs, estmtrs. (20 mm)       36          252        288
Surveys                                   10           30         40
220          530        750
CNG Demonstration Scheme
Consultancy services (20 _)                 40          260        300
Well SS-3 facilities, inc. comprssr.       130          200        330
Containers (6 trailer mounted units)        -           400        400
Marine transportation                      100          600        700
Fueling Station, incl. dock. facil.        120           160       280
CNG bus acqstn. (4) & conversion (16)    100             360       460
S90       1,980      2,470
Part C    Exploration Promotion
Equipment and field expenditures           165          100        265
Reprocessing and Lab. Analysis              -           100        100
Consultants Services (6mm)                  10           80         90
Minority Partic. in Spec. Programs          -            300       300
175           580       755
Part D    Institutional Development
Technical Assistance, Staff Training
and Equipment                            224          168        392
Project Coordination                                  48           336        384
Base Line Costs                          2,305        6,850      9,155
Contingencies
Physical                                 231          685        916
Price                                    512          465        977
Total Project Costs                      3,048        8,000    11,048
_ _. ___ --a



Project Impt*Uwta n Thmta.e
1985                            1986                            1987                               1988
ProjectPt Pa
5678910111212345678      11  12  34567890                                                112   1 23567891112
Part A 
Product Matn Equip.  of disb-- - - - -
Product   tostr. Study   o/                        -  - - -
Part B
Ib1SS--3/4 Reb                - 
W'h1la SS-5/7/8 Prot*.                                       
Ghs LkiUzticun Study------------
OC DImotration Schme                                                       -11          -----  ---                               --   ----
Part C
Etpqloratim Pram.------------
Sets. Acqmn/Papire Stdy.                 1       
Part D
Tnatiutlwoal Devloment-
froect ordtiaticzn              3/-H
Su &bject to curidition of dlabira.it (raragraph- 80).
The startirig dat-a ah~m for all ccmailtmAy services firm. amai the dare of emimarc.
We aih t to ocmwittim  of effer-tivenas (paragraph 75).



)_:^gr\;  >3=;;   ~~~~~~~~ s   ' "       "=                                             ,__    III~~~~~~ERD175EOR'
IRWAIIDk1-IA7 AK  E  11 Y A |   
, .A A   * j'   - .     T
_I:\j<t  -    h      Was-_
BURUNDI_ML--                                                      X                                                   I _
>~~~~~~~~~~- -.,_,, mru,,,           -.- -*.-iY  9B
'5~~A
"-I. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~-
PUIW   aomWum o WWAUOU
some mau
1%4                             modot42, h.
MAS1



IRAD 1752RI
q Xv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
l0XXwA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I
NY~~~~~~~~~~~~I?
RWAND*                                         TA NA NI AE
Z A M B l;   )  9   ,, - -<s -   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ '.      - 
.P%                                        Z   I a  I  .    = -
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A18



