0IFFI CIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1604 TA
Project Agreement
(Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TANZANIA PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated                             , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1604 TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
TANZANIA PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (TPDC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between United Republic of Tanzania (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make avail-
able to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to eight million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 8,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that TPDC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS TPDC in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) TPDC declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A, B.1, 2 and 4, C, and D.2 of the Project, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, petroleum engineering and distribution
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.


﻿-2-
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, TPDC shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Association and TPDC.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. TPDC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections .9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, mintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) TPDC shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) TPDC shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation of any condition wiich interferes or threatens to inter-
fere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by TPDC of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. TPDC shall open an account (hereinafter called
the Project Account), with a commercial bank, and shall deposit
in such Project Account, in accordance with appropriate financial
procedures, the local currency proceeds received by it with
respect to expenditures for Part A.1 of the Project. TPDC shall
utilize the funds in such account for purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TPDC
Section 3.01. TPDC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
petroleum engineering and distribution practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿-3-
Section 3.02. TPDC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial, petroleum engineering and distribution practices.
Section 3.03. TPDC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. TPDC shall at regular intervals inspect and
maintain in a safe operating condition all Songo Songo wells
and related facilities, in accordance with petroleum industry
standards.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TPDC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) TPDC shall:
have   its  accounts   and   financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements), the Special Account and
the Project Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of TPDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)  the date 15 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
TPDC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-5-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Vashington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For TPDC:
Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation
P. 0. Box 2774
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:                   Telex:
TPDC                              41219
Dar es Salaam                     41293
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of TPDC, or by TPDC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement may be taken or executed
by the Managing Director of TPDC or by such other person or
persons as the Managing Director of TPDC shall designate in
writing, and TPDC shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa
TANZANIA PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works under Parts B.1 and 2, and goods under Part B.4
of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evalua-
tion and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accor-
dance with the procedures set forth in Section I and II of
the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
2.   Goods under Part A.1 of the Project, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Part C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts for civil works, and each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appen-
dix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such con-
tract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.


﻿-8-
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3
(the Special Account Schedule) to the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower and TPDC in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower and TPDC shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.   TPDC shall, subject to the provisions of the Development
Credit and this Agreement, be responsible for the overall
coordination, monitoring and supervision of activities under
Parts A, B.1, 2 and 4, C and D.2 of the Project. In order to
assist TPDC in performing its duties, it shall appoint, and at
all times during the implementation of the Project maintain, a
Project Coordinator, whose qualifications, experience and terms
of reference shall be satisfactory to the Association. TPDC shall
at the time of the appointment of the Project Coordinator assign
three qualified professional staff (in petroleum marketing,
operations and finance) to work with him in overall project
coordination.
TPDC shall, at the end of each month, submit a progress
report to the Association with regard to Project implementation,
and at the end of each calendar quarter a more detailed written
progress report.
2.   Part A of the Project
(a) In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, TPDC shall
enter into implementation arrangements with the oil marketing
companies, with respect to the distribution of the tires, pumps,
LPG bottles and related items, and with TRC and TIPER with
respect to the mobile radio equipment. TPDC shall submit by
September 30, 1985, detailed proposals to the Borrower and the
Association, for their approval with a view to the commencement
of implementation by November 1, 1985, in the case of tires over
two six month periods starting November 1, 1985 and November 1,
1986. Such proposals shall include provision for the procure-
ment, installation, and operation of equipment by the oil market-
ing companies, TRC and TIPER, the projected costs and benefits,
and the reporting requirements. Such equipment shall be procured
by the companies, TRC or TIPER on behalf of TPDC, which shall
thereupon sell the equipment to the oil marketing company con-
cerned, TRC or TIPER at an agreed price payable in local cur-
rency. The sale proceeds will be deposited by TPDC in the Project
Account.
(b) To assist TPDC in carrying out the Product Distri-
bution Study under Part A.2 of the Project, TPDC shall, by
November 1, 1985 employ consultants as specified in Schedule 1


﻿- 10 -
Section II. By not later than April 30, 1986, TPDC shall furnish
the results of the study to the Borrower and the Association for
their review and comments, with a view to reaching agreement with
them for the implementation of the recommendations of the study.
3.   Part B of the Project
(a) TPDC shall by October 1, 1985, appoint contractors to
carry out the protection of the Songo Songo Wells Nos. SS-5, SS-7
and SS-9, under Part B.2 of the Project.
(b) To assist TPDC in carrying out phase two of the gas
utilization study, it shall employ consultants as specified in
Schedule 1 Section II.
(c) TPDC shall carry out the CNG demonstration scheme in
accordance with the recommendations as approved by the Borrower
and the Association. Such recommendations shall include specific
provisions for the production, transportation and utilization of
CNG by TPDC, NTC and such other public or private sector agencies
as may be provided for under the Gas Utilization Study.
4.   Part C of the Project
(a) To assist TPDC in carrying out exploration promotion
under Part C.1 of the Project, it shall employ exploration
promotion consultants by November 1, 1985. TPDC shall complete
the preparation of the exploration promotion package relating to
the Coastal Basin    by April 30, 1986 and carry out active
promotion of the Coastal Basin over the following six months.
(b) In order to facilitate the carrying out by seismic
acquisition and exploration companies of speculative programs of
seismic acquisition and geochemical study under Part C.2 of the
Project, TPDC shall by September 30, 1985, request from such
companies detailed proposals for TPDC's participation, to be
furnished to the Borrower and the Association for their review,
and approval. TPDC shall implement its obligations under such
proposals as shall have been approved by the Borrower and the
Association and incorporate the results of the programs in the
Coastal Basin exploration promotion package provided for under
the Project.


﻿- 11 -
5.   Part D.2 of the Project
(a) TPDC shall ensure that the consultants retained to
carry out the Product Distribution Study referred to in para-
graph 2 (b) of this Schedule, shall make recommendations relating
to the establishment and operation of a product marketing and
distribution data system, including provision for the training of
TPDC staff and the procurement of necessary equipment and mate-
rials. Upon their approval by the Borrower, the Association and
TPDC, TPDC shall implement those recommendations, with the
assistance of such consultants, by August 31, 1986.
(b) TPDC shall ensure that the exploration promotion con-
sultants referred to in para 4 (c) of this Schedule shall, in
consultation 4ith Statoil, make recommendations by April 30, 1986
for the establishment and operation of an exploration expen-
ditures monitoring system, including provision for the training
of TPDC staff and the procurement of necessary equipment and
materials. Upon their approval by the Borrower, the Association
and TPDC, TPDC shall implement those recommendations, with the
assistance of such consultants, by August 31, 1986.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of     u-1
FOR SECRETARY


