      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      LK: Provincial Roads Project (P107847)



                                                                                                                 Report Number : ICRR0020163


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                             Project Name
 P107847                                                LK: Provincial Roads Project

 Country                                                Practice Area(Lead)
 Sri Lanka                                              Transport & ICT



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-46300                                             31-Mar-2015                                                             105,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  17-Dec-2009                                           31-Mar-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                    Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           105,000,000.00                                                          0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            100,590,041.05                                                          0.00

  Actual                                                         96,296,158.60                                                          0.00




 Sector(s)
 Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways(100%)

 Theme(s)
 Infrastructure services for private sector development(50%):Rural services and infrastructure(25%):Public expenditure, financial
 management and procurement(25%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator             Group
 Ranga Rajan Krishnamani             Fernando Manibog                     Christopher David Nelson           IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The project development objective as stated in the Financing Agreement (Schedule 1, page 4) and in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD,
    page 4) was:
    To improve access to socio-economic centers in the Uva, Eastern and Northern Provinces of the Recipient through the sustainable
    management of improved road infrastructure.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          LK: Provincial Roads Project (P107847)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
      Component One: Rehabilitation of Provincial Roads. Appraisal Estimate US$70.5 million, Actual Cost US$90.0 million. This
      component planned to rehabilitate about 350 kilometers (Km) of roads in total in three provinces. This included 150 km in Uva Province,
      100 km in the Ampara District of Eastern Province and 100 km in the Jaffna District of Northern Province.
      Component Two: Maintenance Program. Appraisal Estimate US$10.00 million. Actual Cost US$10.00 million. This component provided
      support to the Provincial Road Development Departments (PRDD) in developing and implementing a road maintenance strategy for their
      paved road network.
      Component Three: Implementation Support and Capacity Building: Appraisal Estimate US$5.00 million. Actual cost US$5.00 million.
      Activities included: (i) Technical assistance in the areas of financial management, environmental and social management, procurement,
      project coordination and monitoring. (ii) Financing for office, laboratory equipment and vehicles.(iii) Staff training. (iv) Capacity
      development support for the local construction industry, and (vii) financing additional studies for assisting project implementation.
      Following a level 2 restructuring, on November 6, 2014, the scope of the project was reduced by 34% and the target for rehabilitation of
      provincial roads was reduced from a total of 350 km to 230 km.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
      Project cost. Appraisal Estimate US$ 85.5 million. Actual cost US$105.00 million. The actual cost of Component One was higher than
      estimated due to a combination of factors, including underestimation of cost at appraisal, unusual flooding/landslides in Uva Province at
      several contract sites, which necessitated retaining structures, and an increase in the cost of construction materials (such as bitumen and
      fuel). There was a 34% reduction in the project, which ended up financing less than the originally envisaged activities.
      Project Financing, The project was financed by an IDA grant. The ICR (page 20) reports that amount disbursed was US$101.00
      million. The ICR (page 4) notes that based on the final cost estimates, a savings of US$3.9 million was anticipated because the price
      escalation was less than anticipated and there were some savings in Component Three activities. Since the exact amount had not
      been determined at the closing date, US$2.00 million of the grant was cancelled per the Government’s request. There was parallel
      financing for complementary road rehabilitation activities in the Eastern Province by Asian Development Bank (ADB) and in the Northern
      Province by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).
      Borrower Contribution. None was planned.
      Dates. There was a Level 2 restructuring on November 6, 2014. The project closed as scheduled on March 31, 2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     Just before appraisal, Sri Lanka had emerged from a 30-year conflict which destroyed the economic infrastructure and displaced nearly a
     million people. Although the real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was growing in the years before appraisal, the pace of poverty reduction
     was modest, with 15.2% of the population classified as poor. The incidence of poverty was moreover uneven within the country and three of
     the most deprived provinces in the country were the Uva Province, the Eastern Province and the Northern Province. While the Eastern and
     Northern Provinces were directly affected by the conflict and subsequent displacements, Uva province although not directly affected by the
     conflict, was the poorest province in the country, with 27% of the province classified as poor. Inadequate and restricted transport services were
     the main impediments to growth and poverty reduction in the three provinces. Improving connectivity to markets and growth centers through
     rehabilitation of provincial roads - connecting rural areas with national networks- was highly relevant for the three provinces. This was
     particularly so, given that only 21 percent and nine percent of the roads in the Eastern and Uva Provinces were reported in good and fair
     condition at appraisal. None of the roads in the Northern Province were in good and fair condition. Alongside this, although responsibility for
     managing the provincial roads had devolved to the Provincial Councils, they did not have the institutional arrangements for carrying out their
     responsibilities with respect to managing the Provincial road network.
     The Government's 10- year development policy framework for the 2005-2015 period was articulated in the "Mahinda Chintana - VIsion for the
     Future" document. The framework set out a broad agenda for the road sector, including building an integrated road network and connecting
     poor regions to production centers and international markets for fostering rural development. This framework also formulated a joint road
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               LK: Provincial Roads Project (P107847)



       sector program aimed at rehabilitating National, Provincial and Rural Roads in the entire country.
       The development objective was and continues to be relevant to the Bank strategy for Sri Lanka. At appraisal, the project activities were
       consistent with two of the three objectives identified in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the 2009-2012 period. These objectives
       were, expanding economic opportunities in lagging regions and enhancing service delivery. The project was also consistent with the third pillar
       of the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the fiscal years 2013-2016 period which identified the need for improving living standards and
       social inclusion of the population.




       Rating
       Substantial


   b. Relevance of Design

       The statement of the project development objective was clear and the design included in addition to road rehabilitation activities, activities
       aimed at formulating a road maintenance strategy and capacity building of the respective road departments. The causal links between the
       project activities, their outputs and the final outcomes was logical. The intended outcomes were measurable. Component One’s rehabilitation
       activities can be expected to improve the condition of the provincial roads. Component Two and Three activities on maintenance and capacity-
       building can be expected to contribute to the sustained management of the road network in the three provinces. The combination of these
       activities can be expected to contribute to the project development objective of improving access to socio-economic centers from the three
       provinces.
       Although the three provinces were drastically different in terms of geographic features (Uva province had mountainous roads, Eastern Province
       was flat with more urban roads and Northern Province was flat but consisted of more islands), the project design was not tailored to take into
       account the specific geographic features of each province. This contributed to underestimating the cost of civil works, cost overruns and
       reduction in the scope of project activities.




       Rating
       Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective

     To improve access to socio-economic centers in Eastern, Northern and Uva Provinces through the sustainable management of improved
     road infrastructure.

    Rationale
    Outputs
    • 232.16 km of roads were rehabilitated in the three provinces at project closure, which slightly exceeded the revised target of 229.21 that
    was established at project restructuring (the original target at appraisal was 350 km). The activities in the three provinces included
    rehabilitation of 117.29 km in Uva Province, 55.72 km in the Eastern Province and 59.15 km of roads in the Northern Province.
    • The Road Asset Management System (RAMS) was implemented by the Provincial Road Development Departments (PRDD) in the
    Northern and Eastern Provinces as targeted. The development of specifications for the RAMS system in Uva Province was ongoing at
    project closure due to a previous unsuccessful procurement attempt.
    • A Road Maintenance Strategy was developed in the Northern and Eastern Province at project closure. Uva Province was to develop the
    strategy after developing the RAMS system.
    • Annual Maintenance Plans were developed in the three provinces as targeted. The Eastern Province also developed a three-year
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LK: Provincial Roads Project (P107847)



 investment plan.
 • A total of 1,102 km of roads were receiving annual routine maintenance in the three provinces at project closure, as compared to the
 original target of 997 km of roads. (This included 692 km of roads in Uva Province, 320 km in the Eastern Province and 90 km in
 the Northern Province).
 • 437 people were trained by project closure. 13 training programs were held outside the country, on topics pertaining to management and
 implementation of infrastructure projects, monitoring and evaluation, financial management, construction of supervision and quality control,
 procurement, environmental and social safeguards. 231 training programs were held within the country, on topics pertaining to contract
 administration, environmental standards, accounting and finance management, road construction in landslide prone areas, management of
 road network, health and safety measures during construction, construction law and dispute resolution and environmental impact
 assessment.
 • Provisions of the Governance and Accountability Action Plan (GAAP) were implemented, such as third party technical audit,
 development of a grievance redressal mechanism, procurement thresholds for prior and post reviews, disclosure of project information,
 national and provincial steering committees, community consultations and independent financial audits.

 Outcomes
 • Average travel time on project roads decreased at project closure, and the target was exceeded in all three provinces. Average travel
 time in Uva Province, the Eastern Province and the Northern Province was 32 minutes, 18 minutes and 19.6 minutes at closure as
 compared to the target of 64 minutes, 76 minutes and 25 minutes, respectively.
 • The share of roads as a percentage of the total provincial road network that were reported to be in good and fair condition increased at
 project closure and exceeded the targets. According to the data based on road condition surveys: (I) 50% of the roads in Uva Province
 were in good and fair condition at closure as compared to the revised and original targets of 27% and 30% respectively; (ii) 40% of the
 roads in the Eastern Province were in good and fair condition as compared to the revised and original targets of 18% and 15% respectively;
 and (iii) 26.3% of the roads in the Northern Province were in good and fair condition as compared to the revised and original targets of 5%.
 • According to a beneficiary survey conducted at project closure, 72% of the beneficiaries (road users and communities) reported
 satisfaction with the roads that were rehabilitated along the road corridors in the three provinces as compared to the target of
 20%.
 Given that complementary road rehabilitation activities in the Eastern and Northern Provinces were financed by other development
 partners, it is difficult to determine the extent to which this project contributed to improving the condition of the road network in these
 provinces. It is however reasonable to conclude that the project significantly contributed to realizing the project development outcome.




 Rating
 Substantial



5. Efficiency

 A cost benefit analysis was conducted for the activities associated with rehabilitation of Provincial Roads. This component accounted for 67
 percent of the total project cost. At appraisal, economic analysis was conducted only for the Uva province and the Eastern Province, due to
 the lack of data in the Northern Province. The main project benefits were assumed to come through time savings, reduced vehicle operating
 costs and reduction in post-harvest losses (due to reduced losses of perishable crops). The average ex ante EIRR for the two provinces was
 27% (24% for Uva and 31% for the Eastern province). At closure, the economic analysis was conducted for the three provinces. The
 average ex post EIRR 22.02% (for Uva it was 17.24% and for the Eastern and Northern Provinces it was 26.90%). Using a discount rate of
 12%, the combined Net Present Value of the project was US$109 million when reduction in post-harvest losses was included and US$102
 million when reduction in harvest losses was excluded.
 There were no time overruns and the project was completed on time as per schedule. However, there were administrative and operational
 shortcomings. The original design was not tailored to suit the geographic features of the three provinces. This resulted in underestimating
 the cost of civil works; this, in conjunction with other factors, such as significant increase in cost of construction materials and slope failures
 due to unexpected landslide and flooding in Uva Province, contributed to cost overruns and a subsequent 34% reduction in the scope of
 project activities.




Efficiency Rating
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        LK: Provincial Roads Project (P107847)



Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             67.00
 Appraisal                                                                27.00
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             86.00
 ICR Estimate                                                             22.00
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The relevance of objective was rated as Substantial and relevance of design was rated as Modest. Efficacy was rated as Substantial. Project
outputs met or exceeded targets and the development outcomes were achieved. Efficiency was rated as Substantial. Although there were cost
overruns that led to a reduction in the scope of the project activities, the ex-post EIRR was substantially above the threshold level and the project
was completed on schedule, without any closing date extensions.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

There is substantial risk that the benefits from this project may not be sustained. Although the vehicle licensing revenues are being used in the
provinces to finance road network maintenance needs, these are not sufficient to finance 100 percent of the maintenance
requirements. Flooding, landslides and other natural disasters also pose major risks. Although a low risk, the possibility of rolling back on RAMS
implementation is also present, depending on political turnover.




a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project design was based on the lessons from prior Bank-financed road sector projects and operations by other development partners.
     As this was the first Bank project in Sri Lanka that focused on provincial networks, the preparation team included experienced
     professionals who had worked with the government and other development partners. Although the provincial road departments had no
     experience with Bank projects, the implementing agency in charge of overall oversight and coordination had implemented a prior Bank-
     financed project and was knowledgeable with Bank policies and procedures (discussed in Section 9b). Several risks were identified, including
     high risks associated with the limited capacity in the provinces for addressing fiduciary issues. The overall project risk was rated as
     Substantial and several risk mitigation measures were incorporated. The design also incorporated a Governance and Accountability Plan to
     mitigate the risk associated with fraud and corruption. Adequate arrangements were made at preparation for dealing with fiduciary and
     safeguards aspects (discussed in Section 11) and monitoring and evaluation arrangements (discussed in Section 10).
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LK: Provincial Roads Project (P107847)



   As discussed in section 3b, the project design was not tailored to take into account the site specific features of the three provinces. The
   bidding documents prepared on the basis of outline designs needed to be substantially revised, which led to delays and cost increases
   and eventual reduction in the scope of project activities.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   There were eleven supervision missions, or almost two missions per calendar year. The project benefitted from continuity of leadership as the
   Task Team Leader, who had been a Co-TTL in the initial years of the project, continued to be the TTL until the completion of this project. The
   supervision team also addressed the key issues during implementation phase by regularly bringing attention to the country management team.
   The support and guidance from the team contributed to the project's compliance with environmental and social safeguards issues.
   However, there were shortcomings during supervision. Proactive action by the team could have helped in addressing emerging issues and
   urging the government to take action. For instance, although the poor performance of one of the contractor had been raised by the team as
   early as January 2011 with recommendations to consider termination, no action had been taken by the government and the contract was
   completed only by the end of the project.
   Although a reduction in the scope of project activities was discussed at the time of the Mid Term Review in March 2013, there were delays
   in restructuring the project. The project was formally restructured on November 6, 2015, with only five months left before the project closing
   date of March 31, 2015. The Bank team should have reacted more quickly to contract variations, cost overruns and price escalations as they
   arose.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government demonstrated a strong level of commitment and ownership right from preparation. The Provincial Road Development
   Departments had the required qualified staff for implementing the project. The government commitment was also demonstrated through
   its implementation of the provisions of the Governance and Accountability Action Plan (GAAP), such as establishing a Grievance Redress
   Mechanism in the three provinces.
   However, the delays in release of funds by the Government contributed to the delays in awarding maintenance contracts (Component Two
   activities).



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils (MLGPC) was in charge of overseeing and coordinating the work of the
   Provinces. The Provincial Road Development Departments (PRDDs) were responsible for implementing the project activities at the
   provincial levels through their Project Implementation Units.
   There were moderate shortcomings in performance. Outline designs were used to prepare cost estimates, which resulted in
   underestimation of project costs. There were also some weaknesses in the areas of procurement and financial management, and delays in
   auditing and submitting financial statements. There were instances of inadequate budgetary provisions and violations in contractual terms
   and conditions in a works contract yet payments were carried out. Proactivity was uneven. While two contracts were terminated and rebid,
   one very poorly performing contract was allowed to drag on for 4 years—despite the Bank’s recommendation for terminating the contract—
   and was completed just before the closing date.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LK: Provincial Roads Project (P107847)




   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The three key outcome indicators were appropriate: (a) reduction in average passenger travel time on project roads; (b) increase in the share of
   roads in good conditions, which is a core indicator used by the Bank as one of the corporate indicator for measuring results; and (c) increase in
   the level of satisfaction from communities and road users along the project corridors.
   Appropriate indicators could have been used for monitoring capacity-building activities as two of the chosen intermediate indicators—namely,
   “milestones in project related Governance and Accountability Action Plan” and “Building of in house capacity of Provincial Road Development
   Departments”—could not be measured.




b. M&E Implementation
   The participating provinces were responsible for collecting data on primary indicators and the Ministry Of Local Government and Provincial
   Councils was responsible for M&E. The results framework required measurement of outcome indicators at Mid Term Review (MTR). However,
   not all of the indicators could not be measured as planned, as the road rehabilitation activities were not completed by MTR and hence the
   travel time, road condition and beneficiary survey could be undertaken only after completion of activities.




c. M&E Utilization
   The indicators were project-specific and used to monitor the performance of the project.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as a “Category B” for environmental purposes. Two safeguards policies were triggered: Environmental
   Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01): Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12).
   The Environmental Assessment and Management Framework (EAMF), a Social Impact Management Framework (SIMF) and a
   Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) that was in compliance with the Government’s National Policy on Involuntary Resettlement and Bank’s
   Guidelines were prepared and publicly disclosed as required at appraisal.
   Although there were initial delays in adopting safety measures with regard to flood damaged sites, the ICR (page 8) notes that these
   measures had been adopted by project closure. The Uva Province implemented a Tree Planting Program via a Memorandum of
   Understanding between the Forest Department of Sri Lanka, the project and Provincial Road Development Departments. This program
   focused on ensuring that all trees that were removed due to the project were replaced in line with the Bank’s safeguards policy
   requirements in a manner that would regenerate and maintain the forest cover in the region. During the implementation phase, the National
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             LK: Provincial Roads Project (P107847)



   Project Implementation Unit had established Grievance Redress Mechanisms in all participating provinces. The ICR (page 9) notes that the
   implementation of social safeguards was deemed to be satisfactory throughout the project period.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management: The Computerized Integrated Government Accounting System (CIGAS) for financial management had been used by
   the Project Implementation Unit in Uva Province in the context of an Asian Development Bank-financed project. A modified version of this
   system was used by the Uva Province and this version was to be used for the Eastern and Northern Province as well. Until the completed
   version was installed in the two provinces, a manual accounting system was to be used for recording transactions of the project in the two
   provinces. The Interim Financial reports and the annual audit reports were submitted in a timely fashion. The ICR (page 10) reports that the
   external audit reports in most cases had qualified opinions. However, these audit observations were minor and did not raise accountability
   issues. .
   Procurement: There were delays in finalizing some procurement activities due to contract-related issues and the limited capacity of the
   implementing agencies, with cascading effects. For example, the delay in the supervision consultant’s contract resulted in a corresponding
   delay in the civil works contract. The ICR does not report any case of mis-procurement. The ICR considers the procurement performance
   during project implementation as moderately satisfactory.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Substantial                       Substantial                        ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons


The ICR draws the following main lessons from the experience of implementing this project.
(1) It is critical that good quality detailed engineering designs, bidding documents, and environmental and social safeguards
documents are prepared at the preparation stage. Project experience underlines the importance of ensuring that Bill of Quantities are based
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LK: Provincial Roads Project (P107847)



on detailed engineering designs, bids are received by appraisal, and project cost estimates are based on actual bid prices. Pre-construction
activities also need to be completed to help ensure efficient implementation.
(2) The environmental assessment at appraisal should address the vulnerability of roads to landslides. In the case of this project, this
was not done for Uva province and no corrective measures were put in place during implementation. Learning from the experience of landslide
stabilization in Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan and India, cost-effective soil bioengineering and biotechnical measures for remedying slope instability
could have been applied.
(3) A thorough assessment of the construction industry's capacity during pre- and post-qualification evaluation is required to prevent
delays. In the case of this project, the local contractor's capacity was overstretched due to the increased amount of funding being channeled for
large infrastructure projects. As a result, most of the contractors failed to keep to the work program and reported delays.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is concise while providing the necessary information to support its ratings, and is for the most part, well-written. The ICR also candidly
discusses the problems associated with the original design, which was not tailored to the needs of the three provinces, and the problems
associated with attribution in view of the complementary activities undertaken by other donors.
It would have been useful to provide a description of the methodology followed in administering the beneficiary survey (Annex 5, page 29).




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
