                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank


                                                        Report No: ICR00003615




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-46300)



                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT



                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 66.10 MILLION
                        (US$ 105.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)



                                        TO THE

                DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA



                                         FOR A

                           PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT



                                    December 28, 2015




Transport & ICT Global Practice
Sri Lanka Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective November 3, 2015)

     Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupee
      LKR 1.00 = US$ 0.00709220
        US$ 1.00 = LKR 140.9999

              FISCAL YEAR

         January 1 – December 31

  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

         ADB      Asian Development Bank
         AMP      Annual Maintenance Plan
          CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
          CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
         CRIP     Climate Resilience Improvement Project
            BP    Business Process
         DLC      Defect Liability Certificate
           DO     Development Objective
          DPS     Designated Procurement Specialist
         EIRR     Economic Rate of Return
         EMP      Environmental Management Plan
          EOP     End of Project
           FM     Financial Management
            FY    Fiscal Year
        GAAP      Governance & Accountability Action Plan
         GDP      Gross Domestic Product
           GIS    Global Information System
         GNP      Gross National Product
        GOSL      Government of Sri Lanka
          GPS     Global Positioning System
         HDM      Highway Development & Management Model
         HWR      Hourly Wage Rate
            IA    Implementing Authority
        IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
          ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
           ICT    Information and Communication Technology
          IDA     International Development Agency
             IP   Implementation Progress
          IRR     Internal Rate of Return
           ISR    Implementation Status Report
            JV    Joint Venture
         LKR      Sri Lanka Rupee
         M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
         MPR      Monthly Progress Report
         MTR      Mid Term Review

                      i
                        NBRO       National Building Research Organization
                         NHA       National Highway Authority
                         NPV       Net Present Value
                           OP      Operational Policy
                        OPRC       Output and Performance Based Road Contract
                         PAD       Project Appraisal Document
                        PBMC       Performance Based Maintenance Contract
                          PBP      Pay Back Period
                         PCU       Project Coordinating Unit
                         PDO       Project Development Objective
                          PIU      Project Implementation Unit
                         PMR       Project Management Report
                        PRDD       Provincial Road Development Departments
                          PRP      Provincial Roads Project
                         QAG       Quality Assurance Group
                        RAMS       Road Asset Management System
                         RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
                        RMTF       Road Maintenance Trust Fund
                         RPM       Regional Procurement Manager
                         SBD       Standard Bidding Documents
                         SDR       Special Drawing Rights
                          SIA      Social Impact Assessment
                           SIL     Specific Investment Lending
                          SOP      Standard Operating Procedure
                          TEC      Technical Evaluation Committee
                         TOC       Taking Over Certificate
                         VOC       Vehicle Operating Costs
                         VOT       Value of Time
                         WHD       Working Hours Per Day




Senior Global Practice Director:       Pierre Guislain
              Practice Manager:        Karla Gonzalez Carvajal
          Project Team Leader:         Amali Rajapaksa
             ICR Team Leader:          Zafar Iqbal Raja




                                      ii
                                                     SRI LANKA
                                                Provincial Roads Project

                                                         CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information…………………………………………………………………………. i
    B. Key Dates ………………………………………………………………………………….i
    C. Ratings Summary ………………….………………………………………………………i
    D. Sector and Theme Codes ………………………………………………………………… ii
    E. Bank Staff …………………………………………………………………………………ii
    F. Results Framework Analysis ……………………………………………………………..iii
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ……………………………………………….....vi
    H. Restructuring …………………………………………………..………………………...vii
    I. Disbursement Graph ……………………………………………………………..……....vii

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 15
 6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 18
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 20
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 21
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 23
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 27
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 29
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 30
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 31
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 44
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 45
 Annex 10. Reduction in Travel Time by Road………………………………………………..46

 MAP – IBRD 36976, 37351, 37371………………………………………………………..… 47




                                                                 iii
                                     DATA SHEET


A. Basic Information
Country:               Sri Lanka            Project Name:             Provincial Roads
Project ID:            P107847              Cr. Number:               IDA-46300
ICR Date:              11/26/2015           ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                      DEMOCRATIC
Lending Instrument:    SIL                  Borrower:                 SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
                                                                      OF SRI LANKA
Original Total
                       XDR 66.10 M            Disbursed Amount:       XDR 62.95 M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        XDR 62.95 M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: Not Applicable

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process        Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/05/2009   Effectiveness:       04/02/2010           04/02/2010
Appraisal:             05/05/2009   Restructuring(s):    11/06/2014           11/06/2014
Approval:              12/17/2009   Mid-term Review:     02/01/2013           03/18/2013
                                    Closing:             03/31/2015           03/31/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                Substantial
Bank Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                       Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                           iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                               Indicators                                  Rating
      Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                           Quality at Entry
Project at any time      Yes                                   None
                                           (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                    Quality of
                         No                                    None
time (Yes/No):                             Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                    100               100

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Infrastructure services for private sector development       50                    50
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                              25                    25
procurement
 Rural services and infrastructure                            25                    25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:            Annette Dixon                  Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:          Francois Clottes               Naoko Ishii
Practice
                           Karla Gonzalez Carvajal        Michel Audige
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Amali Rajapaksa                Tawia Addo-Ashong
ICR Team Leader:           Zafar Iqbal Raja
ICR Primary Author:        Zafar Iqbal Raja
                           Elena Y. Chesheva

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aims to improve access to socio-economic centers in Eastern, Northern and Uva
Provinces, through the sustainable management of improved road infrastructure.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Applicable




                                                v
    (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                              Actual Value Achieved
                                                                    Formally Revised
      Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                                 at Completion or
                                                                      Target Values
                                           approval documents)                                  Target Years
Indicator 1:       Reduction in average travel time by targeted beneficiaries on project roads.

                        Uva Province           Uva Province                                 Uva Province
                         801 minutes         64 minutes (20%)                             32 minutes (59%)
Value
                      Eastern Province       Eastern Province                             Eastern Province
(quantitative or                                                           -
                        95 minutes           76 minutes (20%)                             18 minutes (82%)
qualitative)
                     Northern Province      Northern Province                             Northern Province
                        32 minutes          25 minutes (20%)                             19.6 minutes (38%)

Date achieved           11/11/2009               12/18/2009                                     03/31/2015
                 Significantly exceeded the targets. 59%, 82% and 38% reduction in average travel time for Uva,
Comments
                 Eastern and Northern provinces respectively. The achievements are based on data collected
(incl. %
                 from travel time surveys (Annex 12 of Borrower’s ICR March 2015). Details by road are in
achievement)
                 Annex 10 of the ICR.
Indicator 2:     Increase in roads in good and fair condition as a share of total classified roads (Core).
                      Uva Province              Uva Province          Uva Province             Uva Province
                           21%                       30%                   27%                      50%
Value
                     Eastern Province         Eastern Province       Eastern Province        Eastern Province
(quantitative or
                            9%                       18%                   15%                      40%
qualitative)
                    Northern Province        Northern Province      Northern Province        Northern Province
                            0%                        5%                    5%                     26.3%
Date achieved           11/11/2009               12/18/2009             11/06/2014              03/31/2015
                 Exceeded the target. 50%, 40% and 26.3% increase in roads in good and fair condition for Uva,
Comments         Eastern and Northern provinces respectively. The achievements are based on data collected
(incl. %         from road condition surveys (Annex 1D of Borrower’s ICR March 2015). This is a cumulative
achievement) effect of the roads rehabilitation, maintenance programs of this project as well as projects
                 funded by other developmental partners
                 Increase in the level of satisfaction from road users and communities along the project road
Indicator 3:
                 corridors.
Value
(quantitative or           0.00                    20.00%                    -                    72.00%
qualitative)
Date achieved           11/11/2009               12/18/2009                  -                  03/31/2015
Comments
                 Far exceeded the target (72% vs. 20%). The achievements are based on data collected from
(incl. %
                 beneficiary satisfaction surveys (Annex 5 of Borrower’s ICR March 2015).
achievement)




1
    Average travel time of 5 roads in Uva Province (Annex 12 of Borrower’s ICR March 2015)

                                                     vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target
                                                                                   Actual Value Achieved
                                              Values (from       Formally Revised
    Indicator         Baseline Value                                              at Completion or Target
                                                approval          Target Values
                                                                                           Years
                                               documents)
Indicator 1.1:     Length of roads rehabilitated (km).

                        Uva Province            Uva Province        Uva Province             Uva Province
                          0.00 km                 150 km             117.29 km                117.29 km
Value
                      Eastern Province      Eastern Province      Eastern Province        Eastern Province
(quantitative or
                          0.00 km               100 km               56.18 km                55.72 km
qualitative)
                     Northern Province      Northern Province    Northern Province       Northern Province
                         0.0 km                  100 km              55.74 km                59.15 km

Date achieved             11/11/2009             12/18/2009          11/06/2014               03/31/2015
Comments
(incl. %           The revised target slightly exceeded. The project completed 236.52 km by the closing date.
achievement)
Indicator 1.2:     Maintenance strategy developed and approved.
Value
                                          Developed and                         Strategy under development in
(quantitative or   none                                                -
                                          approved                              Northern and Eastern provinces
qualitative)
Date achieved      11/11/2009             12/18/2009                    -        03/31/2015
Comments           Partial achievement, however, the project was instrumental in getting the Northern province,
(incl. %           followed by the Eastern to adopt transparent process for developing maintenance program
achievement)       based on technical basis.
Indicator 1.3:     Annual maintenance plan developed.
Value
(quantitative or   No                     Yes                          -        Plans developed
qualitative)
Date achieved      11/11/2009             12/18/2009                   -        03/31/2015
Comments
                   Annual maintenance plans developed in three provinces. In addition, Eastern province
(incl. %
                   developed 3-year investment plan.
achievement)
Indicator 1.4:     Km of roads receiving routine maintenance annually.
                   Uva Province          Uva Province                           Uva Province
                   0.00 km               515 km                                 692 km
Value
                   Eastern Province      Eastern Province                       Eastern Province
(quantitative or                                                    -
                   0.00 km               350 km                                 320 km
qualitative)
                   Northern Province     Northern Province                      Northern Province
                   0.00 km               132 km                                 90 km
Date achieved      11/11/2009            12/18/2009                 -           03/31/2015
Comments
                   Exceeded in Uva province. 91% and 68% target met in Eastern and Northern provinces
(incl. %
                   respectively.
achievement)
                   Building of in-house capacity of PRDDs in safeguards and fiduciary management (% local
Indicator 1.5:
                   & foreign training completed).




                                                     vii
                                        Capacity built in
Value
                                        safeguards and                         Capacity built in safeguards and
(quantitative or   No capacity in PRDDs                                -
                                        fiduciary                              fiduciary management
qualitative)
                                        management
Date achieved      11/11/2009           12/18/2009                     -       03/31/2015
Comments
                   Capacity built in safeguards and fiduciary management. 145 participants benefitted from
(incl. %
                   training programs (both local and abroad).
achievement)
Indicator 1.6:     Road Asset Management System (RAMS) developed, rolled in and used by PRDDs.
                                                                         Eastern and Northern Province
Value                                                                    are using RAMS. Uva Province
                                      Developed, rolled in
(quantitative or   Not available                                -        is identifying requirements for
                                      and used by PRDDs
qualitative)                                                             RAMS suitable for the needs of
                                                                         the province
Date achieved      11/11/2009         12/18/2009                -        03/31/2015
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved for two provinces out of three.
achievement)
Indicator 1.7:     Milestones in project-related GAAP met.
                                                                               Majority of provisions of
                                                                               GAAP have been implemented,
                                                                               including third party technical
                                                                               audit, grievance redressal
                                                                               mechanism, disclosure of
                                                                               project information,
Value
                                                                               independent construction
(quantitative or   Not available          Milestones met               -
                                                                               supervision services,
qualitative)
                                                                               procurement thresholds for
                                                                               prior and post reviews, progress
                                                                               monitoring, national and
                                                                               provincial steering committees,
                                                                               community consultations,
                                                                               independent financial audits
Date achieved      11/11/2009             12/18/2009                   -       03/31/2015
Comments
(incl. %           GAAP implemented.
achievement)
Indicator 1.8:     Grievance redressal mechanism established.
Value
(quantitative or   Not available          Yes                          -       Yes
qualitative)
Date achieved      11/11/2009             12/18/2009                   -       03/31/2015
Comments
(incl. %           Grievance Redress Mechanism established in three provinces.
achievement)




                                                    viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

        Date ISR                                                           Actual Disbursements
No.                           DO                           IP
        Archived                                                              (USD millions)
  1    05/28/2010         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2    12/12/2010         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     15.25
  3    05/29/2011         Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              15.25
  4    12/15/2011         Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              30.50
  5    06/26/2012         Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              44.79
  6    12/30/2012         Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory              46.22
  7    05/27/2013         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     55.13
  8    12/07/2013         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     73.59
  9    05/05/2014         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     82.98
 10    11/12/2014         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     90.43
 11    09/18/2015         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     97.73




                                            ix
H. Restructuring (if any)

Change in Results Framework: The target for the intermediate results indicator relating to the total
length of roads rehabilitated was lowered from 350 km to 230 km.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                                 x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Context

1.      By the time of project preparation Sri Lanka emerged after a 30-year conflict, which had a
negative impact on the economy estimated at 2-3 percent of GDP growth annually2, destroyed
economic infrastructure and displaced nearly a million people. The country embarked on rebuilding
its economy and livelihoods of its people. Real GDP per capita grew by about 35 percent between
2002 and 2007, however the pace of poverty reduction has been more modest, with the poverty
headcount declining by only 7.5 percentage points and remaining relatively high at 15.2 percent3
for a country with US$ 1,634 per capita GDP as of 2007.

2.       The rural poor accounted for 88 percent of the total poor in Sri Lanka. In 2007, about 60
percent of rural households in Sri Lanka depended on agriculture, and the poverty rate among them
was significantly higher than that of rural non-agricultural households 4 . Uva was the poorest
province in the country with the poverty headcount of 27 percent as of 2007. Among all the
provinces, it had the highest number employed in agriculture, contributing over half of the
Provincial GDP. Eastern and Northern Provinces were most severely affected by the 30-year long
fighting and subsequent displacements. These provinces were heavily dependent on agriculture and
fishing sector, however due to the conflict most of the agricultural infrastructure was destroyed,
which lead to transformation of commercial agriculture into the subsistence agriculture, particularly
in the North.

Sector Issues

3.       Sri Lanka’s road network consists of about 117,000 km, and is the densest in South Asia.
Roads carry 90% of the inland freight and passenger traffic annually. The provincial road network,
estimated at about 15,700 km5, constitutes about 14 percent of the country’s total road network. It
provides the key connection between the rural and the national networks. Due to the long-running
conflict and a lack of consistent funding for provincial roads, little maintenance or rehabilitation of
the network took place. At appraisal, the roads in the provincial network were mostly in an
advanced state of deterioration, with extensive pot holing, breakup of bitumen surfacing, broken
and inadequate culverts and pavement failures. Only 21 percent of the provincial roads in Uva
Province (total 1,741 km), 9 percent in Eastern Province (total 1,098 km) and 0 percent (total 2,000
km) in Northern Province were in good condition. According to the estimates for Uva province
individual farmers were unable to deliver their produce in a timely manner to the markets due to
the poor condition of provincial roads and lost up to 40 percent of perishable produce. Average
distance and time taken to travel to the nearest commercial center was twice the national average.




2 World Bank. “Sri Lanka Poverty Assessment: Engendering Growth with Equity: Opportunities and Challenges.” 2007.
3
  This excludes Northern Province where due to security situation, it was impossible to conduct surveys. “Poverty
Indicators: Household Income and Expenditure Survey, 2006/07.” Department of Census and Statistics, GOSL
4 The Household Income Expenditure Survey (2002) revealed nearly 24 percent of rural agricultural households are poor,

compared with only 16 percent of nonagricultural households.
5 “Public Expenditure Review of Provincial Roads in Eastern, North Central and Uva Provinces.” Draft Final Report. 25

November 2008. Asian Development Bank.


                                                          1
4.      Provincial Councils (PCs) were responsible for provincial roads, through their Provincial
Road Development Departments (PRDD). The primary function of the provincial road agencies
was to maintain the current road network. There had been minimal new construction, and a general
absence of funds for any significant improvement of the existing network. The primary source of
funding for provincial roads was from allocations made to the Ministry of Local Government and
Provincial Council (MLGPC) and distributed to the provinces through the Finance Commission.
Spending on provincial roads also came from projects funded through foreign loans to GOSL and
channeled to the relevant province by the central government ministries and agencies, and
provincial revenue generated and allocated for roads through the provincial budgets. PCs collected
road user charges in the form of vehicle license fees. However they were unable to invest an
adequate share of their own revenues in the road network.

5.      Due to inadequate and irregular funding, there had been little incentive for the provincial
road departments to plan and budget for either capital or maintenance works. There were no long-
term development plans for their networks; only annual maintenance schedules existed. Very weak
capacity of road departments was another challenge at provincial level, including difficulties in
hiring and retaining competent and qualified technical staff, lack of physical assets, including
laboratories, and inadequacy and/or absence of planning units and databases. The quality of
contractors at the provincial level was low. Lack of continuity in road works created little
motivation for the contractors to invest in plant and equipment and qualified staff.

Rationale for Bank involvement

6.       The Government of Sri Lanka’s (GOSL) 10-year development framework, Mahinda
Chintana, set out a broad agenda for the road sector, including building an integrated road network
and connecting poor regions and production centers to domestic and international markets in order
to foster rural development. In support of this framework, a joint road sector program was
formulated by the GOSL for the rehabilitation of the National, Provincial and Rural Roads for the
entire country. With regards to the provincial roads sector, the development partners (World Bank,
ADB and JICA) were invited to work with the GOSL in selected provinces based on the preparatory
work undertaken by the ADB Project Preparation Facility (PPF). In this context, the GOSL
requested the Bank’s assistance for Uva Province, part of the Eastern Province, and Northern
Province.

7.       The Bank is a major development partner in Sri Lanka having financed several key
infrastructure projects over the past decades. This has demonstrated that the Bank had the ability
to implement projects in a volatile and sensitive environment, deliver relevant development
outcomes on the ground, and rapidly adapt to changing circumstances where necessary. The Project
supported the World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy, approved in July 2008 which was fully
aligned with the Mahinda Chintana. The three strategic objectives of the CAS: (i) expanding
economic opportunities to lagging regions; (ii) improving investment climate; and (iii) enhancing
services, were fully supported by the Project. Improvements in the condition of the network in two
of Sri Lanka’s lagging regions supported the first objective, and the strengthening of capacity for
publicly-provided services supported the third objective.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

8.      The project aimed to improve access to socio-economic centers in Eastern, Northern and
Uva Provinces, through the sustainable management of improved road infrastructure. The
objectives stated in PAD and financing agreement were identical.



                                                2
9.      The achievement of PDO was to be monitored and evaluated using the following outcome
indicators:

         (i) reduction in average passenger travel time on project roads;
        (ii) increase in the share of roads in good condition; and
        (iii)  increase in the level of satisfaction from communities and road users along the project
            corridors.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

10.      There was no formal revision of the PDO and the outcome indicators, however the
intermediate indicator of number of kilometers to be rehabilitated has been revised during the
restructuring of 2014. The target was reduced from 350 km to 230km.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.     The direct beneficiaries of the project were the population living in project areas, including
road users, villagers, farmers, agricultural producers, agribusiness operators and transport operators
living or operating in project areas. Poor farmers/rural communities in the Uva, Eastern and
Northern Provinces benefited from the improved condition of the road network, lowered
transportation costs and travel times. The project-funded civil works generated employment
opportunities on its own. The staff of the Provincial Road Development Departments also benefited
from capacity development and training.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

12.     The Project had the following three original components:

Component 1: Rehabilitation of Provincial Roads [US$ 90.0 million]. This component
supported works and services for the upgrading, rehabilitation of about 150 km of provincial roads
and other road infrastructure in selected, prioritized, geographical areas in Uva Province (US$ 50
million), 100km in selected, prioritized areas of Ampara District of Eastern Province (US$ 20
million), and 100 km in selected, prioritized areas of Jaffna District of Northern Province (US$ 20
million).

Component 2: Maintenance program [US$ 10.0 million]. The project supported PRDDs to
develop and implement a maintenance strategy on their paved network, supported the routine and
periodic maintenance in the provinces.

Component 3: Implementation Support and Capacity Building [US$ 5.0 million]. This
component supported: (i) technical assistance to the road departments in the areas of financial
management, environmental and social management, procurement and contract management to
improve systems and procedures for the management of the road network under their responsibility;
(ii) office and laboratory equipment and vehicles to assist in project implementation and
maintenance of the road network; (iii) coordination and monitoring of project activities; (iv)
training; (v) capacity development for the local construction industry; and (iv) any additional
studies required to assist in improvement in implementation of the project and increased capacity
of the PRDDs to execute their core functions. Strengthening of these functions/areas of the Road
Departments or Agencies were aimed to lead to (a) progress towards a guarantee of adequate



                                                  3
maintenance of the provincial road network; (b) an increase in general efficiency of the use of
resources; and (c) an increase in the transparency and accountability of outcomes.

1.6 Revised Components

13.     The components remained unchanged except for decrease in the targeted length of roads
explained below.

1.7 Other significant changes

14.      The Project was formally restructured in November 2014 to make a change in results
framework. The target for the main outcome relating to the total length of roads rehabilitated was
substantially lowered from 350 km to 230 km (34.2% reduction in project scope) due to a
significant cost overrun. This reduction was necessitated due to a number of factors that contributed
to the cost overrun: (a) incorrect cost estimation because designs were not detailed enough at the
time of the bidding (particularly for Uva province mountainous roads) necessitating preparation of
detailed designs, additional works and quantities, (b) change in the proposed surfacing option from
DBST to asphalt surfacing; (c) significant increase in the cost of construction materials, especially
the cost of concrete, bitumen and fuel.

15.     By the end of the Project, based on the final cost estimates, a savings of US$ 3.9 million
was anticipated mainly on account of price escalation being less than the estimated for civil works
contracts as well as savings in Component C. Since the exact amount towards outstanding civil
works was yet to be determined by the closing date, the GOSL has by a letter dated March 30, 2015
requested for a partial cancellation of US$ 2.0 million which has been carried out.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.     The project concept was reviewed on February 5, 2009 and the Project was approved on
December 17, 2009 (101/2 months project preparation period). The Project was declared effective
on April 2, 2010.

17.       The project design incorporated the following key lessons learned from the
implementation of previous road sector projects and other operations by other development partners
and Bank experience in Sri Lanka: (i) it is important to address inadequate maintenance funding
for provincial roads, (ii) institutional strengthening of the PRDDs is a gradual process and takes
time, (iii) local construction capacity, although growing, is somewhat limited due to resource
constraints (manpower and equipment), and (iv) Thorough preparation needs to be done in order to
prevent time and cost overruns.

18.     The design of the first component was largely informed by the feasibility study of
provincial roads done by ADB. Based on the feasibility study the development partners (World
Bank, ADB and JICA) agreed to fund rehabilitation of provincial roads. The World Bank agreed
to finance road rehabilitation and maintenance in Uva province and selected districts in Northern
and Eastern provinces. ADB and JICA rehabilitated about 277 km of roads in Eastern province,
and about 300 km in Northern Province. Northern Province was not accessible at that the time of
2008 feasibility study, and it was done during preparation of the World Bank project.




                                                 4
19.     The designs done as part of ADB Project Preparation Facility were rather standard, not-
site specific designs. The terrain and road conditions in the three provinces were drastically
different from each other and required different design considerations (Uva was hilly, Eastern was
flat with more urban roads and Northern was flat but consisted of small islands). This led to
underestimating the costs of civil works and later led to cost and time overruns and reduction in
scope of the first component. In hindsight, the project should have commissioned additional surveys
and detailed designs, particularly for mountainous roads of Uva, before tendering the works
contracts.

20.      The project design was ambitious given the weak institutions and financial capacity of
Northern and Eastern provinces, as well as the associated political and security risks and untested
project implementation capacity. This was the first road project by the Bank to improve provincial
roads, and the implementing agencies, Provincial Road Development Departments, had no prior
experience with the Bank. The project was dispersed over three provinces with somewhat complex
and perhaps too elaborate implementation arrangements: National Steering Committee (NSC),
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils
(MLGPC), Provincial Project Steering Committees (PPSCs), Project Implementation Units (PIUs)
of Provincial Road Development Departments (PRDDs).

21.      The GOSL demonstrated a strong level of commitment and ownership toward the project
design, preparation and implementation through a number of actions such as full agreement with
the policy support and institutional development component. Beneficiary and stakeholder
satisfaction surveys were conducted to seek their feedback on the project performance.

22.      The project team correctly identified most of the risks and designed the project in such a
way as to minimize many of them. Mitigation measures were identified at the project preparation
stage. However, the risk of escalation in prices for some construction materials was rated as
‘Moderate’. In the hindsight it should have been rated as High, or Substantial. The project should
have identified “implementation readiness” as a risk – improving project preparation to include
complete detailed engineering designs and bid documents, and essential pre-construction activities
prior to contract awards. Another risk that could have been captured is flooding/landslides (Uva
province is prone to such natural disasters).

2.2 Implementation

23.     The project was implemented over the course of 5 years and was completed by the original
closing date of March 31, 2015.

24.     A number of factors affected project implementation, including:

            a. The project faced difficulties in finding required labor as many internally displaced
               persons were being resettled during the construction period within the locality.

            b. There was a significant cost overrun in the first component, which led to 34 percent
               reduction in scope (reduction of length of rehabilitated roads from 350 km to 230
               km). Uva province was particularly affected where the cost increased between 8.4
               to 23.7 percent. This was a result of several contributing factors:

                       The initial designs provided in the tender documents were prepared as part
                        of the ADB funded feasibility study of 2008 and were sketchy, not detailed
                        designs. This was particularly affecting hilly terrain roads in Uva province,


                                                 5
                            which required detailed surveys and detailed designs for correctly
                            estimating bill of quantities and costs. Revised designs provided for
                            additional number of culverts, retaining walls, improved geometry of the
                            roads. This resulted in variations orders due to changes in the designs and
                            in revised bill of quantities based on site conditions.

                           Change in the construction materials and methodology (from DBST to
                            asphalt concrete for hilly roads in Uva and from DBST to cement concrete
                            for flood-prone roads in Eastern province).

                           Significant increase in cost of construction materials during contracts
                            implementation. For example, between 2011-2013, the cost of concrete
                            increased 21percent, bitumen - between 10-15 percent, and cost of fuel
                            increased 56 percent6

              c. Supervision consultants had limited capacity for design review, which caused
                 delays with the start of works, and not sufficient professional staff for supervision.

              d. The procurement of supervision consultants suffered from delays, and the award
                 of the SC for Uva province was further delayed by 145 days due to the complaint
                 handled by Attorney General Office. This caused delays with award of contracts
                 for civil works.

              e. There were also delays with utility shifting also contributed to the delays with
                 contracts execution.

              f.   Due to extreme climatic conditions in December 2014/January 2015 four locations
                   on hilly project roads in Uva suffered from landslides and several locations had
                   slope failures. After investigation and discussion of required remedial measures it
                   was agreed that due to nearing closing date for the project the interventions will be
                   undertaken under World Bank funded Climate Resilience Improvement Project.

              g. The capacity constraints of civil works contractors (manpower and materials
                 availability) due to which they could not keep to their original programs as per the
                 respective contract periods. Due to delays in implementation, two contracts in
                 Northern Province were terminated and re-awarded. Of the 17 contracts, 11
                 contracts were given extension of time.

              h. Limited institutional capacity in provinces impeded the implementation of the
                 project.

              i.   Partial and/or delayed releases of funding due to the budgetary constraints of
                   GOSL negatively impacted the project implementation progress. Non availability
                   of counterpart funding significantly delayed award of maintenance contracts under
                   the second component. The project stipulated that funding from the loan for
                   maintenance will be provided on the declining basis, so that the Government would
                   increase its funding. However, revenues collected from the vehicle licensing fees



6Ministry of Housing and Construction of Sri Lanka, Construction Industry Development Authority Bulletin of
Construction Statistics, Publication No. ID-05, Volume 25 No 10, October 2015


                                                        6
                  were not sufficient to cover the gap and the budgetary provision from the GOSL
                  had been significantly delayed.

25.     To account for implementation delays the Implementation Performance (IP) rating was
downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory (MS) in May 2011 and remained MS till May 2013.
Notwithstanding the above external events that were outside the control of the government and
implementing agencies and limited capacity impeding the project implementation, the Project
displayed resilience and commitment and ensured that the works were completed by the closing
date of March 31, 2015.

26.      A Mid-Term Review (MTR) for the project was conducted in March 2013. The MTR
discussed the issue of cost overruns and an agreement had been reached that about 230 km of the
roads would be rehabilitated against the target of 350 km of roads under the Part A- roads
rehabilitation component. The project was subsequently restructured to curtail the project roads
length to 230 km, however, the restructuring didn’t happen till November 2014. The reasons for
such a long delay in restructuring were as follows: (i) waiting for the decision on the non-
performance of the UVA-2 Contractor (this contract was at the verge of cancellation, and if it was
cancelled the scope of restructuring (total kilometers) would change; and (ii) proposals from the
provincial governments of UVA and the Eastern province to add more civil work contracts citing
some available funding in the loan. The Bank was receptive to such proposals as it would increase
the total kilometers. Hence, after going through the due diligence process more contracts were
added to the project scope. After this has been clarified, the delayed restructuring was processed.

27.     By the end of the Project, based on the final cost estimates, a savings of US$ 3.9 million
was anticipated mainly on account of price escalation being less than the estimated for civil works
contracts as well as savings in Component C. Since the exact amount towards outstanding civil
works was yet to be determined by the closing date, the GOSL has by a letter dated March 30, 2015
requested for a partial cancellation of US$ 2.0 million which has been carried out.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

28.     Overall, the Results Framework for the project was designed to monitor achievement of
the project objectives and cover all key areas of the project, and an appropriate set of outcome and
intermediate indicators was identified. The outcome indicators included reduction in travel time,
increased in the share of roads in good condition, and increase in the level of satisfaction of roads
users and communities along project roads. To better assess the achievement of the first part of
PDO the team could have considered a separate indicator on measuring improved access to markets
and economic opportunities.

29.     The second indicator on the increase in share of roads in good and fair condition is a Core
indicator used by the Bank as one of the corporate indicators for measuring results. While it is a
good tool for measuring impact of development interventions, attribution is an issue for this
indicator in this particular project as it focuses on the entire network in the provinces, where in
addition to the Bank project, other road improvement projects take place, funded by the
Government and/or development partners (ADB and JICA7). Maintenance program supported by
Component B has also contributed to increase of roads in good and fair condition.




7Borrower’s ICR mentions that about 277 km in the Eastern Province were rehabilitated by ADB and JICA funded
projects, and about 300 km in the Northern Province.


                                                       7
30.     Two of the intermediate indicators, “Milestones in project-related GAAP met’, and
‘Building of in-house capacity of PRDDs in safeguards and fiduciary management’ are difficult to
measure and too vague. Instead the team could have picked the key interventions under capacity
building and GAAP implementation and monitor them.

31.      Baseline data on travel time8, and provincial network-level road condition was collected at
appraisal and at end of project (EOP). Baseline data on road user satisfaction/beneficiary survey
was collected in 2011, and at MTR and EOP. It should be noted that for the outcome indicators the
targets were significantly underestimated.

32.      The overall M&E function was the responsibility of the Ministry of Local Government and
Provincial Councils (MLGPC). Each participating province was responsible for collecting and
monitoring primary indicators and additional information for their respective components. Each
PRDD prepared and submitted a monthly progress report (MPR) to the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) reporting on: (i) progress of civil works, consulting services and institutional support, (ii)
progress in the achievement of the project development objectives and any intermediate outcomes;
and (iii) progress on the capacity building. PCU consolidated MPRs into quarterly project
management reports (PMR) and submitted to Bank for review and comments. The PMR measured
progress made under the different components of the project and compared results against the
results framework. The results framework required measurement of Outcome Indicators at Mid-
Term Review (MTR). However, not all of the indicators could be measured at MTR because the
rehabilitation works were not completed by MTR. The travel time, road condition and beneficiary
surveys could only be conducted upon full completion of the civil works. For this reason the results
framework should not have included measurement of outcome indicators at MTR.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

    a. Environmental Aspects:

33.      The compliance of implementation of environmental safeguards at project closure is rated
as satisfactory. OP/BP 4.01 was triggered. The overall implementation of road package
specific Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) at the time of project closure has been
completed accordingly.

34.      Initial safety measures with regard to flood damaged sites, including demarcation of
damaged areas, clearing of landslide debris and other such precautions were undertaken prior to
project closure. The safety measures to alert users to risky areas and signage, had not been
reinstalled on Uva 1, 2, 3, and 5 contracts at project closure, which represented a high risk to road
users. The ICR team has been informed that the safety measures have been properly addressed.

35.     The project showed a big improvement since the MTR with active monthly monitoring
from the PMU side as well as support and guidance from the Bank team after performance was low
at the MTR. There was one contract on which there were issues up until the final year, Uva2, where
there was a lag predominantly due to disinterest and negligence on all aspects by the contractor.
However, in that contract too, by project closure compliance had reached a satisfactory level as the
project safeguards team at the PMU made many proactive efforts. A good practice within the
project, in the Uva province is the Tree planting program, which was implemented via a


8
 Only for Uva Province. Travel time baseline for the Eastern and Northern provinces was collected during
implementation.


                                                         8
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the Forest Department of Sri Lanka and the
Project and the PRDD, which got a commitment from the Provincial Council as well. This program
focused on ensuring that all trees that were removed due to the project were replaced as per the
Banks safeguard policy requirements in a manner that would also help regenerate and maintain the
forest cover in the region. Typically in road projects, tree re-plantation is done by the side of the
roads and maintenance and management is an issue, so this program ensured that the compensatory
mechanism adopted was a more sustainable one.

    b. Social Safeguards:

36.      Overall implementation of social safeguards was rated satisfactory throughout the project
period. OP/BP 4.10 was not triggered for this project as there were no indigenous communities
identified in the areas covered under the project. Although there was no land acquisition envisaged
at the inception of the project, the Bank’s policy on involuntary resettlement (OP 4.12) had been
triggered to address possible adverse social impacts during project implementation. Social
safeguards management of the project had shown gradual progress throughout the project period
and the implementing agencies were able to improve their capacities to implement safeguards
measures as a result of the Bank’s support.

37.     In keeping with the World Bank’s Safeguard Policies, the National Project Implementation
Unit (NPIU), under the auspices of the client Ministry had prepared a Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) for the safeguards management and the instruments and procedures suggested
in the RPF were used to undertake social assessments and resettlement planning to ensure
compliance with the Bank’s social safeguard policies. The RPF had been prepared to provide
guidelines to mitigate all related losses from loss of land (albeit voluntary donation) and loss of
private/community assets/infrastructure/livelihood etc., located on the donated land or otherwise
impacted in the Right of Way (ROW). An entitlement matrix had been prepared to cover the losses.

38.      Majority of the provincial road rehabilitation interventions had involved widening of roads,
reconstruction of culverts, drainages and so on. NPIU and provincial social staff had undertaken
Social Impact Assessments (SIA) and Resettlement Actions Plans (RAP) had been prepared to
identify the potential social impacts and mitigation measures. Most of the adverse impacts observed
during the implementation were due to construction related issues such as access to residential
properties and shops, damages to houses and boundary walls, basic amenities such as side drains
and toilet structures. NPIU, with the support of the Bank, had established Grievance Redress
Mechanisms in all participating Provinces and a robust progress review and monitoring of social
safeguards compliance was in place to maintain a systematic social safeguards management
throughout the project period. In one of the Provinces, however, social safeguards management
encountered some issues towards the final quarter of the project as a result of contracted PIU staff
vacating posts in favor of a continued source of income. This may have been avoided if the client
was able to secure a fully-fledged team for a few months beyond the closure of the project.

    c. Procurement:

39.       The project experienced significant delays in finalizing few procurement activities at the
initial stage due to issues specific to those contracts and limited capacity of implementing agencies.
The delay in concluding the contract for supervision consultant resulted in delays in awarding civil
contracts. Therefore, procurement is rated moderately satisfactory.

40.    Price Adjustment was not allowed for civil work contracts of shorter duration than 18
months. There is an advantage of bearing the risk on price changes by the Employer even for


                                                  9
contracts with shorter durations in Sri Lankan context where the fluctuations of prices are
haphazard. Government guidelines allow the payments for price adjustment for the contracts
running more than three months. The Bank guidelines also do not prohibit price adjustment for
contracts shorter than 18-months. In hindsight, the contracts needed to have provision for price
escalation.

    d. Financial Management:

41.     Financial Management (FM) performance rating at most implementation review missions
was ‘satisfactory” and in a few occasions was rated “moderately satisfactory” primarily due to one
or more of the following issues identified at such points in time: delays in financial reporting, and
auditing, inadequate budgetary provision and violations in contractual terms and conditions in a
works contract while payments were carried out. From a FM perspective, the issues with the project
receiving inadequate budgetary provisions can be considered as a main bottleneck due to which
payments required to be made to contractors were delayed and, hence, hampered effective
implementation at such points in time.

42.      The project internal audit failed to perform at the optimum level due to internal audit
staffing constraints that were prevailing at the ministerial/provincial level. This is identified as a
systemic issue that can impact any project and going forward it is envisaged that this area could be
given some special focus to enhance capacity of internal audit through using project capacity
building component.

43.      The project has been generally submitting accurate and timely Interim Financial Reports
(IFRs) and annual audit reports complying with the two main FM covenants in the project
Financing Agreement. The external audit reports in most occasions had qualified opinions.
However, the audit observations related to the qualifications sited in these audit reports were not
reflecting upon any serious observations, shortcomings and accountability issues on FM aspects. .
The internal audit reports have also been submitted to Bank even though there were delays in
submission mainly due to systemic issues as the project was relying on GOSL internal audit
arrangements.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

44.     The Project roads have been taken over by PRDDs of the three provinces that are currently
focusing on completion of post-construction activities such as issuance of Taking over Certificates
(TOCs) and Defect Liability Certificates (DLCs). The PCU has completed the expenditure
documentation process.

45.      The PRDD’s in Eastern and Northern Province have developed their ‘Road Asset
Management System (RAMS)’ and are currently using the system. PRDD in the Uva Province is
in the process of identifying their requirements for RAMS suitable for the province. The three
PRDDs agreed to earmark funds from vehicle licensing fees to finance routine maintenance
activities. Uva Province exceeded its target value of km of roads receiving routine maintenance,
Eastern Province achieved 91% of its target and Northern Province achieved 68% of its target.
Limited funding has been the main reason for the partial achievement, due to small vehicle fleet
contributing funds through the vehicle licensing fees that has started to grow since the cessation of
the conflict in 2009. The Northern and Eastern PRDD’s are in the process of preparing their
maintenance strategies. Uva Province will proceed to formulate their maintenance strategy upon
development of its RAMS. Annual Maintenance Plans (AMPs) are being developed by the three
provinces to seek budgetary assistance for periodic maintenance. For the long term sustenance of


                                                 10
the road network, however, an Output and Performance Based Road Contract (OPRC) system may
be introduced incorporating both rehabilitation and maintenance on a reasonably long term basis,
such as a 7-10 year period.

46.     Uva Province has prepared a report on proposed mitigation measures for the damages
through landslides, slope failures, rock falling etc. that occurred towards the end of last year along
the rehabilitated roads. The National Building Research Organization (NBRO) along with PRDD
have conducted an investigation of the damaged sites. NBRO has indicated a total period of 24-
months for the further investigations and rectification works. It has been agreed that the rectification
works will be addressed through an Additional Financing operation of the Bank financed ‘Climate
Resilience Improvement Project’ (CRIP) that has been specially designed to address resilience for
climate related risks.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating for Relevance of Objectives: High

47.     The PAD correctly identified the key constraints and opportunities of the Provincial Road
Network in Sri Lanka. The PDO to improve access to socio-economic centers in Eastern, Northern
and Uva Provinces, through the sustainable management of improved road infrastructure was
relevant and continued to be valid throughout project implementation.

48.      The Project was linked to the third central goal of the Government’s Mahinda Chintana:
Vision for the Future, namely: improving living standards and social inclusion. The Government’s
third goal is ensuring access to basic services and improving the quality of services. The project
was fully aligned with this objective. The Project supported Government efforts to connect rural
areas to markets, create employment and provide associated services, and through increased
connectivity, allow the 80 percent of Sri Lanka’s population that live in rural areas to better
capitalize on the emerging economic opportunities. The project also supported Government efforts
to invest in the conflict-affected areas of the North and East Provinces and ethnic reconciliation.

49.       The Project was also fully aligned with the current FY 2013-2016 CPS which identified
three areas for World Bank Group engagement to assist Sri Lanka in addressing its long-term
strategic and structural development challenges and middle-income country agenda. The CPS' areas
of focus are linked to the three central goals of the Government's Mahinda Chintana vision, namely:
(i) facilitating sustained private and public investment; (ii) supporting the structural shifts in the
economy; and (iii) improving living standards and social inclusion. The Project was linked with
the third pillar of current CPS. The project helped improve livelihoods of select disadvantaged
groups in the conflict-affected Northern and Eastern Provinces.

50.      This joint strategy by the GOSL to rehabilitate provincial road network was supported
through a collaborative effort of the World Bank, Asian Development Bank and JICA, who agreed
on funding the most lagging provinces. Sustainability of the road network largely depends on
adequate maintenance, thus the focus of the project on supporting the provincial governments in
developing capacity in asset management and reducing the backlog in routine and periodic
maintenance was critically important. Proper maintenance of road assets remains one of the
priorities in the transport sector.




                                                  11
51.     In view of the above, the project remained relevant at the time of project closure, and the
relevance of the objectives is High.

Rating for Relevance of Design: Modest

52.      The relevance of project design to the objectives is high and interventions were quite
appropriate including both rehabilitation and maintenance as well as capacity building. However,
there were a number of shortcomings that ended up reducing the intended scope of the project and
affecting the quality of the results framework. Project assessment and design of interventions
heavily relied on the preliminary designs of the 2008 feasibility study, which were not detailed
enough, particularly for mountainous roads of Uva province. This resulted in incorrectly estimation
of the scope of the project and related intermediate indicator (original target of 350 kms of roads in
three provinces versus 232 kms achieved). The project design also didn’t address upfront the risk
of landslides, which impacted some of the sections of Uva roads. These exogenous factors and
unintended negative effects were not fully identified.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Substantial

53.    The project achieved and in some cases, exceeded the targets with regard to all the three
outcome indicators:

    a. Against the target of 20 percent reduction of travel time on project roads to socio-economic
       centers there was 59 percent reduction in Uva province (from 80 minutes to 32 minutes
       against target of 64 minutes), 82 percent reduction in Eastern province (from 95 minutes
       to 18 minutes against an EOP target of 76 minutes), and 38 percent reduction in Northern
       Province (from 32 minutes to 20 minutes against an EOP target of 25 minutes) 9 .
       Breakdown of time reduction by road is provided in Annex 10. This is a significant
       achievement also confirmed by the results of the beneficiary satisfaction survey, where
       majority of beneficiaries identify time reduction and easier access to the markets and other
       socio-economic facilities and improved prices for village products as impacts of road
       development (see annex 5).

    b. Share of roads in good and fair condition in total classified road network in the provinces
       significantly increased and surpassed the targets. In Uva this share increased from 21
       percent to 50 percent (against the target of 30 percent); in Eastern Province the share of
       roads in good and fair condition increased from 9 percent to 40 percent against the target
       of 15 percent; and in Northern Province it increased from zero to 26.3 percent against the
       target of 5 percent. It is important to mention that this increase is a cumulative effect of




9
 Travel time is not dependent on the road length. It depends on the riding quality of roads. The travel time
was reduced substantially because of increase in vehicles travel speeds due to high quality of the rehabilitated
roads. A plausible explanation for significantly exceeding the 20% reduction target could be that the targets
were set too low at appraisal.

                                                      12
         both rehabilitation and maintenance programs under the project10, as well as rehabilitation
         works done under ADB and JICA projects11.

     c. Increase in the level of satisfaction from road users and communities along the project road
        corridors from Low to High. Overall, the project gained 72 percent increase of road user
        satisfaction, with 100 percent of beneficiaries noting improved road condition and 98
        percent agreeing that the works responded to the critical needs of their community.

54.      The project has laid a good foundation for sustaining these outcomes as evidenced from
157% and 333% increase in routine and periodic maintenance funding respectively. This is due to
significant increase in motor vehicle license receipts and the GOSL funding. Motor vehicle license
receipts have gone up from SLRs 120.0 million in 2010 to SLRs 277.6 million in 2014 in Uva
Province (131% increase).

55.      The Northern and Eastern provinces have already commenced implementation of RAMS
(Road Asset Management Systems) and currently use web based software, with GIS/GPS
interphase employing HDM4. Adopting these RAMS tool would help curtail time, cost and efforts
in the future. The tasks completed thus far are data collection and road asset inventory completion,
training or the PRDD staff and procurement of necessary equipment. This helped strengthen the
functions of the Road Departments which lead to adequate maintenance of the provincial road
network, increase in general efficiency of the use of resources; and an increase in the transparency
and accountability of outcomes. The Northern Province was the first province to set up the RAMS
where a transparent and technical basis is being used for selection of roads.

56.     While the project successfully achieved its outcome indicators, the impact of the project
was somewhat reduced by reduction of scope of the first component, where due to cost overrun and
price escalation project was able to rehabilitate 232 km instead of original target of 350 km.

57.      The project was also too ambitious in trying in relatively short period to influence total
shift in maintenance management through development of maintenance strategy, implementation
of asset management systems and its use in prioritization of investments and developing
maintenance plans, and significantly increasing funding allocations from the government and from
revenue generated from vehicle license fees. Majority of these tasks were accomplished, however,
the work on developing maintenance strategies need to continue, as well as development of RAMS
for Uva.

58.    Based on the above, achievement of project development objective is accessed as
Substantial.




10
   Over the period 2010 to 2015, the GOSL implemented 99 road maintenance contracts costing LKR
1901.78 million covering about 861 km of provincial roads. This is due to significant increase in motor
vehicle license receipts and the GOSL maintenance funding. This length is in addition to the 236 km of
provincial roads that were rehabilitated under the Project
11
   Borrower’s Completion report informs that ADB and JICA rehabilitated 277 km in Eastern Province and
300 km in Northern Province.

                                                  13
3.3 Efficiency

Rating: High

59.       The efficiency in achieving the PDO is High. Cost benefit analysis indicates that the project
achieved a favorable economic internal rate of return (EIRR). The combined EIRR for all three
provinces was 22.02% when reduction in post-harvest losses is included and 21.57% when
reduction in post-harvest losses is excluded. Table 1 presents the breakdown of the EIRR by
province under both scenarios. The lowest EIRR (16.3%), estimated for the UVA Province, is well
above the 12% benchmark. In addition, the EIRR for the other two provinces are above 26%. This
indicates that the realized benefits of the project were sufficient to make it a successful investment
for all three provinces. The reduction in road length constructed does not detract from the economic
worth of the project. The ultimate test of project efficiency is the economic return on investment
and not kilometers of road constructed. On that score, the project has an ex-post economic return
almost more than twice the cut-off EIRR. Details are at Annex-3.

                            Table 1: Breakdown of EIRR by Province
        Province          Including Post-Harvest Losses     Excluding Post-Harvest Losses
        UVA                           17.24%                             16.30%
        Eastern                       26.90%                             26.90%
        Northern                      26.66%                             26.46%
        Total                         22.02%                             21.57%

60.     Using a discount rate of 12%, the combined net-present value (NPV) of the project was
USD 109 million when reduction in post-harvest losses is included and USD 102 million when
reduction in harvest losses is excluded. As expected, the NPV of benefits is positive for all three
provinces.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

61.     The overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory based on high relevance of
objectives, modest relevance of the design, substantial efficacy and high efficiency of the project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

62.     There was no study on poverty impacts or gender aspects undertaken during the Project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

63.     The project was instrumental on reinforcing the focus on proper maintenance funding and
asset management. Increased allocations for maintenance in the three provinces demonstrate
increased government understanding and commitment to sustainable management of provincial
network. While Northern and Eastern provinces have already embarked on using RAMs for
assessment of their road network and better maintenance planning, Uva is behind in this process
despite several attempts to develop the system.

64.     Total of 437 people benefitted from training programs under the project. This included 13
training programs abroad on management and implementation of infrastructure projects,


                                                  14
monitoring and evaluation, financial management, construction supervision and quality control,
procurement, environmental and social safeguards and 23 local training programs on contract
administration, environmental standards, construction administration, accounting and finance
management, road construction in landslide prone areas, management of road network, health and
safety measures during construction, construction law and dispute resolution, environmental impact
assessment. As a result, adequate in-house capacity has been built in the PRDDs in all three
provinces for road construction, fiduciary and safeguards management.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

65.     There were no noticeable/irreversible negative impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

66.      Four dimensions received wide recognition by the road users and public at large – namely,
improved condition of the roads, priority needs of the community, reduction in travel time, and
level of satisfaction of direct beneficiaries.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Significant

67.     The risk that the achieved development outcomes may not be sustained is Significant. The
vehicle license revenues are not sufficient enough to finance 100 percent of stable network
maintenance needs. Another risk to sustainability is flooding/landslides (Uva province is
particularly prone to such natural disasters).

68.    With regards to sustaining the policy and institutional reforms, the two PRDDs appear to
be committed as evidenced by their use of RAMS for preparing AMPs and senior management
deep understanding of the issues. However, Uva PRDD needs to continue working on RAMS
implementation, and the risk of roll back remains present, in case of significant turnover/political
appointments at top management level. However, the risk appears to be ‘low’ given the strong
commitment shown by the new government to good governance and strong/professional leadership.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank Performance

a. Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

69.       The Bank’s performance during the preparatory period was moderately satisfactory,
moderately rating mostly accounting for a number of weaknesses. The bidding documents were
prepared on the basis of outline designs, necessitating substantial revision of the designs and bill
of quantity, and delays in in the initial phase of the project and in significant cost increases. As a
result, the project length was curtailed from 350 km to 230 km (34% reduction in scope of the first
component).

70.    However, the Bank’s performance was satisfactory with regard to strategic relevance and
approach, and paying adequate attention to fiduciary and safeguards, implementation and


                                                 15
monitoring & evaluation arrangements. The Bank team consisted of experienced professionals who
worked with the GOSL and development partners on project preparation. The team’s interaction
and inputs at this phase played a significant role in arriving at a project design that was focused on
key challenges at that time and choice of components that directly addressed the challenges within
the project’s budget and time limitations.

71.      In hindsight, even though very relevant and needed, the project was too ambitious in aiming
for changing how the road maintenance is planned and executed, implementing asset management
system and using for prioritizing investments all within less than 5 years. Given limited capacity
of PRDDs and experience in other countries calling for longer period of implementation of such
initiatives, more modest goals could have been chosen.

b. Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

72.      The quality of the supervision is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Adequate numbers of staff
with requisite skills and expertise in technical and safeguards functions were engaged in supporting
implementation including through regular monthly/bi-monthly meetings (as needed) and formal
missions at regular intervals. The Bank fielded 11 supervision missions, 2 missions per calendar
year. The supervision team provided quality advice and proposed solutions to remove
implementation bottlenecks. The implementation support mission management letters and aide-
memoires suggest comprehensive attention to the three components, duly highlighting the
achievements as well as areas of concern, along with suggestions for addressing the proximate
challenges. The key issues in implementation were also regularly and candidly brought to the
attention of the sector and country management through the Implementation Status & Results
Reports (ISRs) and the guidance received was promptly acted upon. The ISR ratings assigned to
the quality of implementation provide a fairly accurate reflection of the project’s performance in
the corresponding periods, e.g., FM rating downgrade in May 2012, April 2013, October 2014 and
April 2015; IP, Project Management and Social Safeguards rating downgrade in May 2011; and
M&E rating downgrade in December 2011.

73.      While overall supervision has been quite satisfactory leading to completion of project by
original closing date, the Bank team should have been more proactive in addressing emerging issues
and urging the government to take action. For example, very poor performance of Uva-2 contractor
has been mentioned in the Aide-Memoire (AM) as early as January 2011, and repeatedly mentioned
in every AM with recommendations to consider termination, however, no action has been taken,
and the contract was completed only by the end of the project. For the contract which has not been
performing for such a long time, the Bank could have been stricter and considered excluding this
contract from the loan financing if the government was unwilling to terminate. The team should
have much quicker reacted to emerging variations to the contracts, cost overruns and price
escalations in the beginning of the project to adjust the project much earlier. The analysis of cost
overruns has been done in May 2012, yet the restructuring to reflect reduction in targets has been
done in November 2014, five months before project closing date.

c. Rating of Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

74.     The Bank team put a lot of efforts in project preparation and implementation support which
led to the project achieving its developmental objectives. However, a number of shortcomings


                                                 16
during both preparation and implementation stages warrant Moderately Satisfactory rating for Bank
performance.

5.2 Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75.     The Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory primarily due to delays in
release of counterpart funds which impeded the implementation of the maintenance component.

76.     However, GOSL demonstrated a fairly strong level of commitment and ownership towards
the project design, preparation and implementation. The PRDDs maintained a dedicated team of
suitably qualified staff to implement the project. However, since the project was only one part of
the technical staff’s overall duties, there were occasions where a fully deputed team may have been
more effective.

b. Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77.      The performance of the Implementing Agencies (IAs) in the provinces was moderately
satisfactory. Not enough emphasis was put on readiness for implementation causing start-up delays.
Outline designs were used to prepare cost estimates, which resulted in gross underestimation of
project costs. Moderate shortcomings were observed in the areas of procurement, financial
management, and monitoring & evaluation. The Bank had to downgrade the FM rating four times
due to delays in financial reporting, and auditing, inadequate budgetary provision and violations in
contractual terms and conditions in a works contract while payments were carried out. While two
contracts have been proactively terminated in Northern province and rebid, the Uva PRDD did not
exercise the same level of proactivity in the case of the very poorly performing Uva-2 contract,
where the initial 12-month contract was allowed to drag through 4 years and was completed just
before the project closing date, despite numerous recommendations of the Bank to terminate the
contract.

c. Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

78.     Considering that the performance of both the Government and its implementing agencies
is moderately satisfactory, overall performance of the Borrower is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

79.       The main lessons from the PRP include:

      a. Readiness for implementation: it is critical that good quality detailed engineering designs,
         bidding documents, environmental and social safeguards documents are prepared during
         project preparation and procurement completed for key contracts and consultancies. The
         good practice for item-rated contracts is to ensure that Bill of Quantities (BOQ) are based
         on detailed engineering designs, bids are invited using accurate BOQs and bids are received


                                                  17
        by appraisal and project cost estimates are based on actual bid prices. Completion of pre-
        construction activities, utility shifting early on would ensure smooth implementation.

    b. Enhancing capacity of the internal audit must be given special focus in future projects
       through institutional strengthening and capacity building component. The project
       internal audit failed to perform at the optimum level due to internal audit staffing
       constraints that were prevailing at the ministerial/provincial level.

    c. Construction industry constraints. The local contractors’ capacity was heavily
       overstretched due to increased amount of funding being channeled in to large infrastructure
       projects. Most of the contractors failed to keep to the work program and reported delays
       even with respect to mobilization of their own staff. The contractor’s capacity should be
       vigorously assessed during pre- or post-qualification evaluation including other works in
       hand. The Government may consider strict actions such as debarring defaulter contractors,
       and create an enabling environment to attract well reputed international contractors to
       shake the poorly performing local contracting industry. A good practice is to do a
       construction industry assessment during project preparation and make recommendations
       for addressing the weaknesses.

    d. Sri Lanka may consider use of Lump-Sum contracts that were a success story in Pakistan.
       Ad-measured, item-rate civil works contracts frequently encounter major cost over-runs,
       due to significant variations in final work quantities and delays in project implementation.
       To minimize this risk and benefit from contractor innovation and efficiencies during
       construction, rehabilitation contracts under the Pakistan Highways Rehabilitation Project
       (P10556) were invited on a “lump-sum” basis using preliminary designs provided by
       National Highway Authority (NHA), which prescribed a minimum pavement thickness.
       This approach shifted some of the construction phase risks to the contractor, where they
       can be better managed. Overall construction completion costs remained much lower – only
       5% increase in cost compared to 17% increase in the traditional item-rate contracts – even
       though bid prices were on average about 11% higher than the Engineer’s Cost Estimate.

    e. The environmental assessment at appraisal should address the vulnerability of roads to
       landslides. This was not done for Uva province and no corrective measures were put in
       place during implementation. Learning from the experience of landslide stabilization in
       Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan, and India, cost-effective soil bioengineering and biotechnical
       measures for remediating slope instability should have been applied. It is highly
       recommended that these technologies be introduced in Sri Lanka's road sector as a priority,
       especially given the extensive experience among Sri Lanka's South Asian neighbors as
       global leaders in this field.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies: The borrower’s has offered candid and well considered
    comments in Annex 7. These relate to: (i) unforeseen factors that have impacted on the project
    (e.g. landslides in Uva Province); (ii) procedural limitations relating to procurement processes
    and the QCBS modality used for procuring supervision consultants; and (iii) contractor
    performance. In light of these considerations, the borrower has requested reconsideration to
    upgrade the ICRR ratings. The team agrees that many of the factors that affected the project’s
    results were exogenous. However, there were also mitigations that could have been better
    planned and executed. As discussed in section 5.2, it may have been possible to mitigate the
    impact of exogenous factors by greater attention to readiness of works packages, better use of


                                                18
   pre-qualification criteria, more robust environmental / technical assessments (e.g. to consider
   landslide risk), greater rigor in the design of contracting strategies, and stronger project
   management to control for cost and performance issues. In light of these considerations, the
   team has decided to leave ICRR ratings unchanged.

(b) Co-financiers: Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders: Not Applicable




                                               19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                   Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                      Appraisal
                                                       millions)

Rehabilitation of Provincial
                                        70.5              90.0            28%
Roads
Maintenance Program                     10.0              10.0             -
Implementation Support &
                                         5.0               5.0             -
Capacity Building
             Total Baseline Cost        85.5             105.0            23%
Physical Contingencies
                                         6.5               0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies
                                        13.0               0.00           0.00
             Total Project Costs       105.0             105.0
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00              0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00              0.00           0.00
     Total Financing Required          105.0             105.0


(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                   Type of Co-    Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                    financing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)    millions)
Borrower                                       0.00         0.00         0.00
International Development
                                                105.00      101.1       4.0%
Association (IDA)




                                          20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                                                     Output Indicators
       Component
                               End of Project Target                  Achievement Status
 Rehabilitation of        350 km of provincial roads        232.16 km of provincial roads
 Provincial Roads         upgraded and rehabilitated        rehabilitated (meeting the revised
                                                            target), including:
                                                            117.29 km upgraded and rehabilitated
                                                            in Uva Province
                                                            59.15 km upgraded and rehabilitated
                                                            in Eastern Province
                                                            55.72 km upgraded and rehabilitated
                                                            in Northern Province
                                                            In addition, 54 bus shelters were built
                                                            in Uva province
 Maintenance program      a. 997 km of roads receiving      a. 1102 km of roads receiving
                              routine maintenance annually       routine maintenance annually

                          b.   Road Asset Management          b.   Eastern and Northern Province
                               System developed, rolled in         developed RAMS and are using
                               and used by PRDDs                   the system for maintenance
                                                                   planning. Uva Province is
                                                                   developing specifications for the
                                                                   system to suit the needs of the
                                                                   province (previous attempt at
                                                                   procurement was unsuccessful)

                          c.   Maintenance strategy           c.   Eastern and Northern provinces
                               developed and approved              are developing maintenance
                                                                   strategy. Uva province will
                                                                   develop the strategy after RAMS
                                                                   is completed

                          d.   Annual maintenance plan        d.   Uva province develops annual
                               developed                           maintenance plans
                                                              e.   Eastern province developed 3-
                                                                   year investment plan.
                                                              f.   Northern province develops
                                                                   annual maintenance plans

 Implementation Support   a.   Implementation of local and    a.   Total of 437 people benefitted
 and Capacity Building         foreign training program for        from training programs under the
                               building fiduciary and              project. This included both
                               safeguards management               training abroad (13 training on
                               capacity in PRDDs                   management and implementation
                                                                   of infrastructure projects,
                                                                   monitoring and evaluation,
                                                                   financial management,
                                                                   construction supervision and
                                                                   quality control, procurement,
                                                                   environmental and social
                                                                   safeguards) and local training (23
                                                                   training programs on contract
                                                                   administration, environmental
                                                                   standards, construction


                                               21
     administration, accounting and
     finance management, road
     construction in landslide prone
     areas, management of road
     network, health and safety
     measures during construction,
     construction law and dispute
     resolution, environmental impact
     assessment).




22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction

1. Economic analysis is performed to assess whether the economic benefits of the project are
   higher than its economic cost and whether these benefits are similar to those estimated at the
   appraisal stage. We accomplish this by first assessing whether the economic internal rate of
   return (EIRR12) is greater than 12% and then comparing it to the EIRR estimated at the
   appraisal stage.

Framework

Assumptions:

2.          The following general assumptions are made when performing the economic analysis:

            a. The analysis is performed for a 26 year period – 1 year for civil works and 25 years of
               benefits.
            b. Project discount rate is assumed to be 12%.
            c. For the conversion rate it is assumed that USD 1 is equivalent to LKR 114.25.

Data:

3.      The following data and information are utilized to perform the cost-benefit analysis of the
provincial roads. Most of the secondary data is obtained from Central Bank publications (“Sri
Lanka Socio Economic Data 2014”). In addition, some of the figures were calculated by the
consultant through primary data (i.e. Vehicle Maintenance Cost).

           Total Provincial Road Extent and contract packages
           Provincial land area (3 provinces) and land area coming under each provincial road
           Provincial Agricultural pattern and GDP contribution
           Project area contribution to provincial GDP in each province
           Provincial growth pattern of agriculture sector
           Population Density, provincial population & particulate road level population (GNP Data)
           Direct benefitted population in each province
           Provincial Per Capita Transport Expenditure
           Motor Vehicles by Province
           Average vehicle speed (Project Appraisal Document)
           Average vehicle maintenance cost (Primary data)
           Post-Harvest Loses (Appraisal Document and Secondary Data)

Benefits:

4.    The economic benefits of improved provincial road infrastructure in the three provinces
(EVA Province, Eastern Province, and Northern Province) are assumed to stem from three sources:


12
     EIRR is the discount rate that equates the discounted stream of benefits and costs.


                                                             23
(1) time savings benefits, (2) reduction in vehicle operating costs (VOC), and (3) reduction in post-
harvest losses. However, since post-harvest loss recovery could only be measured through a mix
of ex-ante and ex-post data, we report results for two scenarios—the first scenario accounts for
reductions in post-harvest losses and the second scenario does not.

5.       Time saving benefits—value of time (VOT)—are calculated on the basis of the opportunity
cost of time by using the hourly wage rate. The hourly wage rate is calculated using monthly per
capita income and assuming that people work 24 days a month and 8 hours per day. In this manner,
the hourly wage rate is estimated to be USD 0.54 (LKRs 62.25). However, for Northern Province
the hourly wage rate is estimated to be USD 0.7 (LKR 80 .00) due to an existing labor shortage.

6.      Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) are calculated using primary data sources in all three
provinces. However, number of registered vehicles operating in each province was obtained from
Provincial Road Departments.

7.       Reduction in post-harvest losses is calculated using the data from the appraisal stage and
other secondary data sources. While it might be important to account for these benefits (for example,
it has been estimated that individual farmers lose up to 40% of their perishable produce in the UVA
Province), their measurement is imprecise. Therefore, we perform our analysis with and without
post-harvest benefits.

8.      Note that in addition to these three components, the economic analysis performed at
appraisal had included road safety benefits in the calculation. We do not include road safety benefits
in the current analysis due to lack of data—in this sense our estimates of the net benefits are
conservative.

Costs:

9.      Total project capital investment was USD 105 million and divided in to 3 project
components as USD 90 million for Road Rehabilitation Component, USD 10 million for
Maintenance Program Component and USD 5 million for Implementation Support and Capacity
Building Component for a five years period.

Analysis

10.      Cost benefit analysis indicates that the project achieved a favorable economic internal rate
of return (EIRR). The combined EIRR for all three provinces was 22.02% when reduction in post-
harvest losses is included and 21.57% when reduction in post-harvest losses is excluded. Table 1
presents the breakdown of the EIRR by province under both scenarios. As expected, EIRR is lower
when benefits from post-harvest loss reduction are excluded but the magnitude of the difference is
small (in all instances it is less than 1 percentage point). Thus, the exclusion of these benefits does
not alter the results. The lowest EIRR (16.3%), estimated for the UVA Province, is well above the
12% benchmark. In addition, the EIRR for the other two provinces are above 26%. This indicates
that the realized benefits of the project were sufficient to make it a successful investment for all
three provinces.




                                                  24
                                 Table 1: Breakdown of EIRR by Province
     Province                   Including Post-Harvest Losses   Excluding Post-Harvest Losses
     UVA                                      17.24%                                 16.30%
     Eastern                                  26.90%                                 26.90%
     Northern                                 26.66%                                 26.46%
     Total                                    22.02%                                21.57%

11.     Using a discount rate of 12%, the combined net-present value (NPV) of the project was
USD 109 million when reduction in post-harvest losses is included and USD 102 million when
reduction in harvest losses is excluded. Table 2 presents the breakdown of the NPV by province
under both scenarios. As expected, the NPV of benefits is positive for all three provinces.

                Table 2: Breakdown of Net Present Value (in millions of USD) by Province
 Province                        Including Post-Harvest Losses      Excluding Post-Harvest Losses
 UVA                                                28                                   22
 Eastern                                            41                                   41
 Northern                                           40                                   39
 Total                                             109                                   102


12.      ICR team’s estimated NPV and EIRR differ from those calculated by the Borrower because
of different assumptions and what it seems to be a typo on the Borrower’s report. The Borrower’s
ICR provide the streams of benefits and costs during the period of analysis for each Province, which
the Bank team used to calculate the NPV and the EIRR. Hence, both analysis depart from the same
point, but the differences are as follows. First, for the NPV calculation, the Borrower use a discount
rate of 8%. Since 8% is low by WBG standards The Bank team instead use a discount rate of 12%
in our calculations. Second, the Borrower assume that costs and benefits accrue at the start of each
year whereas we assume that the costs and benefits are realized at the end of the year. Last, there
is a typo in the EIRR reported by the consultants for the Eastern and Northern provinces as the 17%
reported by the Borrower cannot be obtained with the stream of costs and benefits of the project.
The Bank team conclude there is a typo on the Borrower’s ICR as we can replicate all the other
calculations done by the Borrower when using same assumptions, except for the EIRRs for the
Eastern and Northern Provinces. The resulting difference in the estimated EIRRs for these two
provinces is approximately 10 percentage points

Comparison to PAD

13.     The economic analysis at appraisal stage only assessed investments in five of the six roads
that were rehabilitated in the UVA province—in the PAD the results were reported by road and the
EIRR ranged from 16.8% to 32.5%. No economic analysis of the roads in the Eastern and Northern
provinces was performed at appraisal.

14.      When we compare these results to our present EIRR estimates for the UVA Province, the
realized EIRR is lower (the present estimate is 17.24%). 13 There are two reasons behind this
difference. First, due to the higher unit costs of the additional new work items, the construction
costs of those roads that were rehabilitated under the project and included in the economic analysis
at appraisal increased by up to 23.7% (see Table 3). Second, our estimation strategy does not


13
     We use the EIRR that includes benefits from reduction in post-harvest losses for comparability.

                                                       25
 account for road safety benefits which were accounted for in the economic analysis performed for
 the PAD. The PAD indicated that the “overall reduction in road accident costs is equivalent to 6.8
 percent of total forecast benefits.” If we adjust the net benefits for the UVA Province by 6.8%,14
 the EIRR increases to 18.1%. Thus, if actual road safety benefits represented the same share of
 benefits as expected at appraisal, then when road safety benefits are accounted for, the EIRR would
 be about a percentage point higher.

                           Table 3: Costs Increase by Road in UVA Province
Package No                                Road Name                                     Change in cost (%)

  Uva1        Kottagoda Podumilla Adiyarawatta Maspanna Yalagamuwa                              23.7

  Uva2        Galauda Kandaketiya Karametiya Road                                               8.4
  Uva3        Muppana Wedikumbura Thenagallanda                                                 9.7
  Uva4        Haggala Ford McDonald Road                                                        12.5

  Uva5        Medithale Pathanawatta Tennapanguwa Keriwehara                                    14.0




 14
   To be consistent with our present methodology, we assume that road accident reduction benefits start
 being realized after the first three years of the project.

                                                    26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                            Title               Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Tawia Addo-Ashong           Sr Transport Specialist            GTIDR TTL
                            Senior Social Development
Zia Al Jalaly                                                  OPSOR
                            Specialist
Farahnaz Azoor              Program Assistant                  BPSCP
Darshani De Silva           Environmental Specialist           GENDR
John L. Hine                Consultant                         GTIDR
Comfort Onyeje Olatunji     Program Assistant                  GTIDR
Amali Rajapaksa             Senior Infrastructure Specialist   GTIDR Co-TTL
David Stephen Rudge         Consultant                         GTIDR
Sunethra Chandrika
                            Procurement Specialist             GGODR
Samarakoon
Natalya Stankevich          Transport Specialist               GTIDR
Jiwanka B. Wickramasinghe   Sr Financial Management Specialist GGODR
Bernadeen Enoka
                            Financial Management Specialist    GGODR
Wijegunawardene

Supervision/ICR
                            Senior Social Development
Zia Al Jalaly                                                  OPSOR
                            Specialist
Farahnaz Azoor              Program Assistant                  BPSCP
Radia Benamghar             Transport Specialist               GTIDR
Darshani De Silva           Environmental Specialist           GENDR
Minneh Mary Kane            Lead Counsel                       LEGES
Comfort Onyeje Olatunji     Program Assistant                  GTIDR
                                                                       TTL (end 2014-
Amali Rajapaksa             Senior Infrastructure Specialist   GTIDR
                                                                       2015)
Sunethra Chandrika
                            Procurement Specialist             GGODR
Samarakoon
Natalya Stankevich          Transport Specialist               GTIDR
Bernadeen Enoka
                            Financial Management Specialist    GGODR
Wijegunawardene
Tawia Addo-Ashong           Sr Transport Specialist            GTIDR   TTL (2010)
Manzoor Ur Rehman           Senior Transport Specialist        GTIDR   TTL(2011-2014)
Zafar Iqbal Raja            Senior Highway Engineer            GTIDR   ICR TTL/Author
Elena Chesheva              Senior Transport Specialist        GTIDR   ICR Co-Author




                                             27
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                              USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                    travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                2009                            58.33                       281,789.00
                2010                            17.99                        60268.00
                         Total Lending:          76.32                     342,057.00
Supervision/ICR
               2010                              13.85                      38,940.00
               2011                              24.64                     102,061.00
               2012                              60.81                     198,601.00
               2013                              73.37                     213,512.00
               2014                              31.83                     154,092.00
               2015                              22.12                      94,728.00
                 Total Supervision:             226.62                     801,934.00




                                              28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The summary of the results of the beneficiary satisfaction survey undertaken as part of preparation
of Borrower’s Completion Report:

 No.     Description                                                      Beneficiary Satisfaction
 1       Road Improvements and Development
 1.1     Condition of the roads:                                          100%
 1.2     Priority needs of the community:                                 98%
 1.3     Completion of the road work (Completed on time)                  52%
 2       During Construction
 2.1     Affects due to roads construction:                               28%
 2.2     Economic benefits to the beneficiaries during road               65%
         construction
 2.3     Quality of road construction: - Good and Average Quality         84%
         work
 2.3.1   Road signage:                                                    61%
 3.      Social & Economic Benefits as a Result of Road
         Improvement
 3.1     Travel time to the important institutions:                       Change in travel time – Less%
         Economic center                                                  82%
         Daily or weekly Pola/Fair                                        82%
         Divisional Secretariat                                           82%
         School                                                           82%
         Hospital                                                         82%
         Temple                                                           76%
         Main town                                                        82%
 3.2     Issues due to road improvements:                                 % of Beneficiaries
         Increase in vehicle accidents                                    69%
         Households exposed too much dust                                 27%
         Cultural issues                                                  31%
         Increased theft and illegal activities                           19%
 4.      Environmental Aspects
 4.1     Environmental issue                                              % settled successfully
         Removal of trees unnecessarily                                   38%
         Debris not removed                                               31%
         No measures for soil erosions                                    22%
         Machinery parts remain road sides                                16%
         Constructions have affected the natural water resources          17%
         No measures for interrupted electricity, telephone and water     16%
         supply
         Cannot access from some by roads                                 16%
         Water drains over the road due to blockages                      20%
         Roads damaged due to heavy vehicles                              23%
 5.      Impacts of the Road Development Work
 5.1     Impacts of road development:                                     % of beneficiaries opinion
         Reduce travel time                                               96%
         Improved prices for village products                             59%
         Improved quality of product due to better transport facilities   64%
         More business opportunities on the road side                     52%
         More exposure to the market                                      69%
         Increase in vehicle accidents                                    65%
         Increase in cultural issues                                      50%



                                                     29
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                        30
Annex 7a. Summary of Borrower's ICR

Executive Summary

1.       The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is meant to provide a comprehensive
account of the performance of the project and is considered an integral part of World Bank’s effort
to increase development effectiveness and to provide lessons from completed operations.

2.       Full report, which has been filed with project files, consists of 6 chapters related to
Achievement of Development Objectives, Component-wise achievement against targets;
Institutional setup and project management; Sustainability; Lessons learnt and Arrangements for
post-completion operations. In addition the report consists of 14 main Annexes and sub annexes
which include the following : Summary of the evaluation, Risk assessment and management, Cost-
benefit analysis, Physical and financial progress of activities, Details of the beneficiary survey,
Results and monitoring framework based presentation on results achieved. Below are the excerpts
from the Borrower’s ICR.

Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators

3.       The Provincial Road Project (PRP) was aimed at improving access to socio-economic
centers in Eastern, Northern and Uva Provinces and these have been monitored and evaluated using
the following outcome indicators: (i) reduction in average passenger travel time on project roads;
(ii) increase in the share of roads in good condition; and (iii) increase in the level of satisfaction
from communities and road users along the project corridors. The surveys conducted for this
assignment have come out with positive responses regarding these indicators as described in the
report and supported by the detailed survey analysis and case studies given in the annexes. 5a, 5b
and 5c. Furthermore an assessment of the Performance of Key Players and the factors affecting the
implementation and Outcomes are included in this report in order to cover the full scope of the
enumerated TOR. The achievements of project development objectives against the targets are given
in Chapter 1 and the relevant annexes.

Project Components Achievements against Targets

4.       The three components of the Project consists of road rehabilitation (in all three provinces
- Uva, North and East), road maintenance in Uva and, Capacity building in all three provinces.
These components are described in the introduction as components A, B, C respectively. The
project activities commenced in April 2010 and are to be completed by the end of March 2015. The
project closing date has been fixed as end July 2015. Under the Component A: 23 Civil works
contracts (Major- 17; Minor- 6) covering 229 Km of provincial roads in the three provinces have
been awarded. Under the Component B, 94 road maintenance contracts covering 861 Km have
been awarded in Uva province. In addition to this, action is being taken to prepare a road
maintenance strategy system for the same. The achievement of these project components against
the targets along with case studies are given in Chapter 2 and the relevant annexes.

Institutional Setup and Project Management

5.      GOSL has nominated the Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Council (MLGPC)
to undertake the policy guidance functions and the oversight of the overall implementation of the
PRP activities (Executing Agency). The Provincial Councils of Uva, Eastern and Northern
Provinces are the implementation agencies of the project and they operate through specially
constituted PIUs. Supervision has been done through three selected consultants, in the three


                                                 31
provinces. However, as revealed during discussions, certain lapses had been observed in the
interaction between the PIUs, Consultants and the Contractors that had effected work execution.
Under capacity building a reasonable amount of work had been done. These are elaborated in
Chapter 3.

Sustainability

6.       The project incorporates three components (Rehabilitation, Maintenance and Capacity
building), that are highly related in terms of long term sustainability of a road system. For any
existing system of roads, periodic rehabilitation and continued maintenance is a must for its
sustainability. Institutional strengthening and capacity building is highly desirable for the upkeep
of the roads, whilst performing the above said activities of rehabilitation and maintenance. These
aspects are described and elaborated in Chapter 4.

Lessons Learnt

7.       Several aspects regarding lessons learnt are dealt with in chapter 5 including that of
planning and designs aspects of the project, awarding of contracts and matters related to work
execution. Also discussed are certain lapses on the part of the consultants and contractor, including
mobilization delays, along with possible remedial measures. Drawbacks with the selected
consultants and suggestions to overcome such situations have also been discussed under lessons
learnt in Chapter 5.

Post Completion Operations

8.       Post completion arrangements of a project of this nature, including policy and procedural
changes, should be such that maximum benefits are obtained in the future. Above all, in these three
provinces rehabilitation of roads need to continue on a priority basis giving prominence to road
connectivity, particularly by linking the urban centers with agricultural and other production
centers. However, as funding for this activity is scarce several cost effective means must be utilized
as described in Chapter 6.

9.       Continuation of road maintenance in a systematic manner with a clear distinction between
periodic maintenance and routine maintenance should be adhered to. Success in this regard will
greatly depend on the funding arrangements. Periodic maintenance will certainly need funding from
GOSL as had been agreed. However, how such funding is to be used on a priority basis needs
careful determination by MLGPC and the PRDDs so that maximum benefits will be obtained.
Regarding routine maintenance as to the sufficiency of the funding component from vehicle
registration fees, as suggested, should be determined and arrangements sought to cover up the
deficiencies. It has to be clearly understood that without systematic routine maintenance, long term
sustenance of the road network could not be guaranteed. These aspects are discussed in detail in
chapter 6. For the long term sustenance of the road network, however, an Output and Performance
Based Road Contract (OPRC) system needs to be established with some amount of
experimentation, to begin with.

Cost Benefits of the Project

10.      The total project capital investment was US $ 105 million that was subsequently divided
into the following 3 project components; US $ 90 million for Road Rehabilitation Component, US
$ 10 million for Maintenance program Component and US $ 5 million for Implementation Support
and Capacity Building Component over a five years period. The value of the project trading benefit


                                                 32
is US $ 336 million and spread over the 3 provinces as following; US $ 129 million for Uva, US $
104 million for Northern and US $ 103 million for Eastern provinces respectively. The main
contributions for the project benefit stream were identified as: travel time saving benefit, post-
harvest loses recovery benefits and vehicle operating cost reduction benefits due to the project
interventions.

11.      The project Internal Rates of Return (IRR) recorded are as following; 17.5% Eastern
Province, 17.3% in Northern Province and 17.2% in Uva province respectively. Project B/C ratios
recorded are as following, 4.376 in Eastern, 4.268 in Northern and 2.334 in Uva province
respectively. The payback periods differ somewhat between the provinces. As the Uva province
needs more time to recover project cost, the payback period is spread over 10 years. However,
payback period for Northern and Eastern Provinces are approximately 7 years whilst generating
significant socio-economic benefits rather than its cost (Annex 3 provides further detailed analysis
of the Cost Benefit analysis for the three provinces).

Rating of Selected Activities

1 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

1.1 Assessment of Project Development Objectives Satisfactory

Project Rational Satisfactory

1.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and outcome indicators Satisfactory

1.2.1 Reduction in travel time Satisfactory
1.2.2 Increase in share of roads in good condition Satisfactory
1.2.3 Level of satisfaction Satisfactory

1.3 Overall performance of Key players

1.3.1 Performance of Supervision consultant and PIU Moderately Satisfactory
1.3.2 Performance of contractor Moderately Satisfactory
1.3.3 Performance implementing agency (PCU) Satisfactory
1.3.3.1 Development of Asset Management System in NP+ EP Moderately Satisfactory
1.3.3.2 Financial Management Performance Satisfactory
1.3.4 Performance of Bank, Borrower and Client in achieving the Project Objectives Satisfactory
1.3.4.1 Bank lending Satisfactory
1.3.4.2 Bank supervision Satisfactory
1.3.4.3 Borrower Financial management Satisfactory
1.3.4.4 Borrower Procurement management Satisfactory
1.3.4.5 Government implementing performance Satisfactory

1.4 Factors affecting Implementation and Outcomes

1.4.1 Factors subject to Government control Satisfactory
1.4.2 Factors subject to implementing agency control & Costs and Financing Satisfactory




                                                33
2 Components achievements against targets

2.1 Component A Satisfactory
2.2 Component B Satisfactory
2.3 Component C Satisfactory
Adequacy of Financial Staff Satisfactory
2.4 Overall Financial Achievement Satisfactory

3 Institutional setup and project Management

3.1 Effectiveness of Institutional set up in strengthening of project management Satisfactory
3.2 Effectiveness of internal management Satisfactory
3.3 Effectiveness of training and capacity building Satisfactory
3.4 Effectiveness of financial management Satisfactory
3.4.1 Financial Management of Implementing Agencies (General) Satisfactory

3.5 Effectiveness procurement management Satisfactory

3.5.1 Procurement of Supervision Consultant Satisfactory
3.5.2 Procurement of Major works Satisfactory

3.6 Effectiveness of environmental and social safeguards Satisfactory

4 Sustainability

4.1 Project Sustainability Satisfactory
4.2 Sustainability of Provincial Roads Satisfactory
4.3 Asset Management Moderately Satisfactory
4.4 Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Satisfactory
4.5 Adequacy of MLGPC and PRDD for Project Execution Satisfactory
4.6 Capacity Building of Contractors Satisfactory
4.7 Financial Sustainability Satisfactory

Overall Conclusions of the Project

Program Effectiveness   - Satisfactory
Efficiency              - Satisfactory
Relevance               - Satisfactory
Impact                  - Satisfactory
Sustainability          - Satisfactory

Introduction

Project Approach – Context at Project Designing Stage

The Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (GOSL) received a credit from
the International Development Association (IDA), towards the cost of the Provincial Roads Project
(PRP). This credit was applied towards the cost of major improvements, rehabilitation and
maintenance activities of the provincial road network in the Eastern, Northern and Uva Provinces
of Sri Lanka under a multi-year program spread over five years.



                                               34
As indicated in the Project Appraisal Report (PAD), the project had been specially selected by the
donor, in consultation with the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) to demonstrate its commitment
to address the need for developing the secondary road network of the country, consisting of C and
D class roads, which had been long neglected. As a result of this neglect, in recent times, the
transport linkage between the urban centers and the rural population had been seriously affected.
The project is confined to three of the most deprived provinces of the country and consists of three
components, A B and C. The project components are primarily meant for the rehabilitation of
selected roads, maintenance of certain other roads; and the formulation of a strategy for
maintenance and capacity building of the organizations responsible for the above mentioned
developments. The project components, as originally proposed, are as follows:

Component A: Rehabilitation of Provincial Roads [US$90 million].

This component was designed to support:

a. Works and services for the upgrading, rehabilitation of about 150 km of provincial roads and
other road infrastructure in selected, prioritized, geographical areas in Uva Provinces (US$50
million).
b. Works and services for the upgrading, rehabilitation of about 100 km of provincial roads and
other road infrastructure in selected, prioritized, areas in Ampara District of Eastern
Province (US$20 million).
c. Works and services for the upgrading, rehabilitation of about 100 km of provincial roads and
other road infrastructure in selected, prioritized areas of Jaffna District of Northern Province
(US$20 million).

Component B: Maintenance Program [US$10 [Million].

Provinces will be assisted to develop and implement an effective maintenance strategy on their
paved network.

Component C: Implementation Support and Capacity Building [US$5 million]

This component will finance the strengthening of the capacity of the Provincial Council Road
Development Departments (PRDDs) in planning and budget management within a framework of
fiscal constraints. The Project will support

a. technical assistance to the road departments in the areas of financial management, environmental
and social management, procurement and contract management to improve systems and procedures
for the management of the road network under their responsibility;
b. office and laboratory equipment and vehicles to assist in project implementation and
maintenance of the road network;
c. coordination and monitoring of project activities;
d. training;
e. capacity development for the local construction industry

The project activities commenced in April 2010 are to be completed by the end of March 2015.The
project closing date has been fixed as end July 2015. Under the component A, 23 civil works
contracts (Major- 17; Minor- 6) covering 229 km of provincial roads in the three provinces have
been awarded. Under the component B ninety four road maintenance contracts covering 861 km
have been awarded in Uva Province and, in addition action is being pursued to prepare a road
maintenance strategy for same.


                                                35
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

GOSL has nominated the Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Council2 (MLGPC) to
undertake the policy guidance functions and the oversight of the overall implementation of the PRP
activities (Executing Agency). The Provincial Councils of Uva, Eastern and Northern provinces
are the implementation agencies of the project and operate through specially constituted PIUs.
Supervision is being done through three selected consultants, in the three provinces.

The main objective of the PRP is aimed at improving access to socio-economic centers in Eastern,
Northern and Uva Provinces through the sustainable management of improved road infrastructure.
Once the project is completed it is expected to achieve;

  A reduction in average passenger travel time on project roads;
  An increase in the share of roads in good condition; and
  An increase in the level of satisfaction from communities and road users along the project
corridors.

Project Development Background

During the designing stage of Provincial Road Project (PRP), a majority of the Northern and
Eastern Provinces had been severely affected by the Civil War and subsequent community
displacements. Many of the displaced people who returned to the Eastern Province faced difficulty
in restoring their lives and livelihoods. Inadequate and restricted transport services, poor quality
roads, and poor access to credit were some of the main impediments to growth and poverty
reduction. Before the conflict, the agriculture and fishing sector had contributed a substantial share
to national GDP, but due to transportation difficulties commercial agriculture in the North and East
had transformed into subsistence agriculture.

In order to restore previous GDP contributions to the national economy whilst restoring livelihoods,
the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) requested financing from the World Bank (WB) to undertake
a Provincial Roads Improvement Project to upgrade and rehabilitate dilapidated provincial road
infrastructure to enhance regional economic development. Provincial roads are the key connectors
between the rural and the national networks. As such road improvement projects contribute to
regional economic development and help reduce poverty by opening up local economies to larger
markets. The PRP Project is aimed at improving the reliability and efficiency of management of
provincial roads that facilitate the access to provincial productive markets by (a) rehabilitating
provincial roads infrastructure in selected prioritized areas, and (b) supporting development of
technical capacity at the provincial level to improve their ability to manage their assets.

As a part of project preparation and design, the roads were selected through a series of studies and
consultation exercises including the feasibility studies conducted in 2008, where the selection
criteria included:

1. Poverty of the area
2. Condition of the roads
3. Access to services and connectivity, inclusion etc.




                                                 36
This was strengthened through consultations held from March 2008 to June 2008 and reconfirmed
during the preparation of the Social Impact Management Framework and the Social Impact
Assessment in May 2009 and October 2009.

Project Feasibility Study and Key Identifications

Feasibility studies for the proposed project was carried out according to the Social Impact
Management Framework (SMIF) which was disclosed in-country on May 5, 2009 and a revised
SIMF was prepared and disclosed in October 2009. Parallel to this feasibility studies, Provincial
Roads specific Social Impact Assessments (SIA) were also carried out. The Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP) was prepared in compliance with the Government‘s National Policy on Involuntary
Resettlement and World Bank‘s Policies in particular, the Operational Policy (OP). The policy and
entitlements in this project have been built upon the requirements of the Government of Sri Lanka
(GOSL), principally the Land Acquisition Act (1950 and revised in 1979).Thus the data collected
for preparation of RAP of the Project included the following key areas:

1. Land required through voluntary donation
2. Houses affected
3. Commercial establishments impacted
4. Parapet walls, fences and gates to be demolished
5. Other structures such as wells, latrines etc.
6. Public institutions and religious/ cultural centers impacted
7. Public utilities impacted (including telephone, electricity etc.)
8. Privately owned trees to be removed
9. Any loss to income earning sources/loss of livelihood
10. Any squatters/encroachers that need to be removed temporarily
11. Loss of community owned assets/infrastructure etc.

All the Project Affected Persons (PAP) identified were provided necessary mitigation measures for
their livelihoods. The Project entitlements have been designed to provide compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation for lost assets and restore or enhance the livelihoods of all categories
(directly and indirectly affected, title holders and non-title holders) of affected people. The Project
Director with support from the PIU along with the Provincial Directors were responsible for
implementing the project. Most of the issues related to resettlement have been identified and
mitigation provided in the RAP. All Project documents including the SIMF were disclosed in May
2009 while the addendum/ revised SIMF were disclosed in October 2009.

Project Target at the Design Stage

The Provincial Roads Project aims at improving approximately 350 Km length of provincial roads
as about 150 Km. in Uva Province, and about 100 Km. each in Ampara and Jaffna districts in
Eastern and Northern Provinces respectively. This PRP covers 6 Provincial Roads in Uva province
with rehabilitation and improvement of landslide sections at UVA1, UVA4, UVA5 contract
packages. In Eastern province, priority was given to 13 Provincial Roads under 9 contract packages,
whilst 18 provincial roads were selected in Northern Province under 6 contract packages.




                                                  37
Main Beneficiaries

Socio-Economic Context

The project covers the Badulla and Monaragala Districts in the Uva Province (UVA) Ampara
District of the Eastern province (EP) and Jaffna District of the Northern Province (NP) that have
distinct geographical and socio-economic characteristics. Ampara district is the most densely
populated district in the Eastern Province, with a population of 589,344 persons. Geographically it
has a flat terrain and is mostly covered with paddy fields and forest reservations. Agriculture is the
main occupation in the project areas; however there are some small and medium scale industries
such as garment factories, mining and tourism industries, trade, etc. As a result agriculture and
fisheries are the main sources of income of the people in the area. But the income generated through
agriculture is seasonal and fluctuates according to the market trend, whereby the prices of
agricultural products tend to get fixed by a few middlemen who have links with urban centers.

Geographically, Uva Province consists of steep mountain ranges and a rolling terrain.
Socioeconomically, Uva had been identified as the poorest province in the country with a poverty
headcount of 27 percent. Among all the provinces, it has the highest number employed in
agriculture (64%), contributing over half (53%) of provincial GDP. Many socio-economic
indicators of Uva were at the same level or even lower than those of the Northern and Eastern
Provinces which have been directly affected by the civil conflict. It also has the highest youth
unemployment rate, between the working age of 14-25 years and the lowest monthly total
expenditure per capita.

Populations in the North have been affected to varying degrees, depending on the district. Before
the conflict, the agriculture and fishing sector contributed a substantial share to national GDP and
was a source of livelihood and food security for more than 90% of the population, but at the project
designing stage commercial agriculture in the North had transformed into subsistence agriculture.
In the North, in particular, displaced persons have lost their agricultural and fishing implements
and related infrastructure, including the road network, which had been severely damaged. It was
estimated that up to 2% per annum of GDP growth has been lost to the conflict and inadequate or
restricted transport services and poor quality roads

In general the Eastern and Northern Provinces have been most severely affected by the decades-
long fighting and subsequent displacements. Many of the displaced people who returned to the
Eastern Province initially faced a challenging environment with restricted access to fields and
fishing waters due to security reasons. The situation has now somewhat stabilized, with most
displaced people having been resettled and the local economy has been bolstered by an increase in
paddy production and an easing of security-related fishing restrictions.

Although not directly affected by the conflict, due to inadequate road connectivity, it had been
estimated that individual farmers lose up to 40% of their perishable produce in Uva. Transportation
costs are 25% higher and travel times are two to three times longer than if the roads were in good
condition. Agricultural wholesalers were reluctant to travel to remote villages to collect produce.
In the event they did, wholesalers would pay famers substantially less due to their own high
transportation costs. Because of the poor road condition bus services from villages to socio-
economic centers, towns and schools had significantly declined or completely stopped over the past
few years.




                                                 38
Primary and Secondary Target Groups

Given the socio-economic context in these districts, it has been determined that the primary
beneficiaries identified under the Provincial Road Project would be the rural, population who are
mostly dependent on agriculture. Prior to the Project farmers had some difficulty in selling their
produce in urban centers due to the lack of proper transportation in the area. With the improvement
and proper maintenance of these provincial roads, these rural communities will be able to transport
their produce to urban/population centers with greater ease. Furthermore, school children,
government and private sector employees, commuters travelling to socio economic centers and the
traders from these rural areas would also benefit from this project. Additionally leisure travel and
tourism to previously inaccessible places would also increase as a result.




                                                39
Annex 7b. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower’s comments are included below as received from Uditha Fernando Assistant
Director, Department of External Resources and S.G.Chandradasa, National Project Director on
December 23, 2015.

This has reference to the Country Director’s letter dated 09.12.2015 addressed to the Secretary to
the Treasury forwarding the Implementation Completion Report of the Bank. Whilst we agree with
some of the conclusions in the report, we feel that the author of the ICR may not have been privy
to all of the information in order to carry out a deeper analysis that would also require an in depth
understanding of the country situation and the provincial set up that is reflected in the conclusion
of the report. Therefore, we would like to further elaborate as follows:

1. Relevance of objectives, Design & Implementation (Para 19, 22, & 24b in pg. 05, Para 52
   of pg. 12, Para 56 in pg. 13, Para 61 in pg. 14 and Para 69 in pg. 15).

        a) The Government offered a consultancy contract under the ADB assistance to carry out
           a feasibility study for provincial roads covering the entire country. The objective of
           this consultancy was to identify 2400 km of feasible roads from all the Provinces and
           prepare bidding documents for immediate bidding. Once this study was completed,
           most of the Donors including World Bank ADB, JICA selected some provinces and
           provided assistance for the road improvements. All the parallel road projects used the
           estimates prepared by this consultant and procurement process was carried out
           accordingly. Those estimated were quite accurate enough for bidding purposes but we
           experienced some deviations in steep hilly terrains in the Uva Province.

        b) Prior to bidding, it was observed that this consultant was not given adequate weightage
           for Social and Environmental safeguards at the feasibility stage. Therefore the
           estimates were revised adding adequate provisions to address these areas before
           bidding.

        c) The procurement process commenced with the Uva Province and it was observed that
           all the awarded prices were more than 20% below the engineer’s estimates. Therefore
           it is very clear that the Bill of Quantities were not under estimated.

        d) After awarding, the contractors carried out detail surveys and supervision consultants
           prepared the working drawings. At that time, it was observed some variations
           especially in hilly roads. This is mainly to improve the road base (close interval soil
           testing were not carried out at the feasibility stage), Widening of curves, additional
           measures adopted in order to address social safeguards and safety concerns as well as
           implementation of NBRO recommendations at sensitive areas. However in the PAD U
           S $ 19.5 Million has been allocated for physical and price contingencies. We have not
           exceeded these limits.

        e) Before the year 2010, the landslides were not very common in the Uva Province.
           However the critical roads in the Uva Province were the Uva 01, Uva 05, and Uva 04
           and NBRO advice was taken during the implementation. Addressing the NBRO
           instructions was one of the reasons for the contract variations. At the latter part of the
           project, the Uva 07 contract was awarded specifically to rectify the land slide issues.
           Even immediately prior to the closure of the project, a request was made to the Bank
           for additional funding for the rectification work of the landslides to be completed


                                                 40
           through this project. Therefore, the project has taken several measures in order to
           address the upfront risk of the slides.

       f) This ADB study did not include the Northern Province and no detailed evaluations
          were carried out before preparation of the PAD. This is mainly due to conflict situation
          in the Northern Province before year 2009 which did not provide access and work
          needed to be carried out immediately after the cessation of the conflict in order to
          address social issues. The Northern Province feasibility study was done at the latter
          part of 2010 and identified 55 Km within the given US$ 20 Mn allocation. However,
          by that time, the project was already approved with an estimated 100 Km length in the
          PAD for the Northern Province. The inclusion of the Northern Province in the project
          in this manner has been extremely useful and beneficial for the province that had
          suffered tremendously due to many years of conflict as it provided them immediate
          finance to re-establish connectivity.

2. Delay in awarding the supervision consultancy in the Uva province resulting delay in civil
   contracts. (Para 24d in pg. 06, Para 39 in pg. 09)

       We wish to reiterate that the procurement process under this project was carried out in a
       very transparent way which has led to the delays that has been pointed out in the ICR report.
       This was one of the reasons for the slide the delays in the procurements. It is true that the
       delay in awarding the supervision consultancy in Uva province had led to a delay the
       awarding of the civil work contracts. But the delay in awarding supervision constancy was
       beyond the control of the Implementation Agency (IA) as well as the Bank. This however
       reflects a process that has been followed which has been done in order to ensure
       transparency.

       In following the procurement process for the recruitment of the supervision consultant,
       prior to the award of the contract, opportunity was given to the contractors to appeal against
       the awarding. This is a process that is followed in the country prior to approval of the award
       by the cabinet of Ministers to ensure a true and fair transparent process. During this process,
       one firm appeal against the award due to a weakness in the joint venture agreement of the
       selected firm, as this party claimed was not a legally valid joint venture agreement. Due to
       the technicality and to ensure a true and fair view, the complaint was referred to the
       Attorney General department. Finally, all the parties accepted the decision given by the
       Attorney General and re- evaluation was done. Based on the legal decision, the award
       decision was changed. Therefore, we would like to indicate that these steps were taken in
       order to ensure a decision that is transparent and not challengeable and does not in any way
       reflect weak procurement capacity of the IA.

       Performance of Uva 02 Contractor. (Para 26 in pg. 07, Para 73 pg. 16 and Para 77 in
       pg. 17)

       It is agreed that, the Uva 02 Contractor is a very week contractor. This matter was discussed
       at each and every mission and remedial actions were given in each and every Aide Memoire
       and implemented. The termination decision of this contract was taken in the year 2013 at
       a wrap-up meeting and according to the particular Aide Memoire; it was proposed to
       complete the balance part of the contract by GOSL funds.

       At that time only 50% of the contract was completed and estimated cost of the balance
       work as per the market rates was nearly about LKR 700 Million. Most importantly, it was


                                                41
       observed that the remaining incomplete work that included culverts partly done,
       unprotected slopes, earth work along the entire stretch of the road that was preventing
       people from accessing their work places and homes was causing huge amount of social
       unrest aggravated by unsafe locations and needed to be completed urgently.

       Therefore, the Chief Secretary of the Uva Province pointed out that it was not possible to
       re-award the balance part of this contract immediately as the GOSL funds were not
       available for this significant estimate. However, it was noted that if the contract was
       terminated without re-awarding urgently, strong social pressure would arise in the area due
       to partly attended activities. This decision was taken purely considering the social issues
       and the safety of the people in the area that needed to be protected. Hence, it was difficult
       to the Chief Secretary to implement this decision taken at the wrap up meeting. However,
       if the Bank accepted to use Bank funds for rebidding (as in Northern Province) then
       definitely the Chief Secretary would have terminated the contract. Also, this situation
       could not be compared with the termination of the two contracts in Northern Province, as
       the physical progress at termination of NP 03 and NP 05 contracts, was only 5% which
       was one year from the award. Finally, due to the tremendous commitment of the IA and
       the Bank, the contract was completed within the revised and agreed cost.

       In early 2014, the contractor referred the dispute to arbitration where the arbitration award
       was made in mid-2015 requesting the Government to pay LKR 471 million to the
       contractor of Uva-2. After having obtained a legal opinion from the lawyer consulted by
       the project, it was referred to the Attorney General’s office by the project. The Attorney
       General has provided advice requesting the project to file action against the award where
       a case has now been filed in the High court of Colombo. We would like to reiterate that the
       project could have simply opted to make the award as directed by the Arbitration board
       and it would have been settled at this point. But as we felt that this award was unfair on the
       part of the Government, we have taken further steps in ensuring the Government is duly
       protected by seeking assistance through the legal process of the country. Pl see details
       annexed.

3. Performance of the Contractors (Para C in Pg. 18)

       Out of the 18 contracts under the project, except 02 contracts, all other contractors managed
       to deliver within their work programs. It should be noted that these contracts were given
       time extensions, as they were contractually entitled such extensions which were beyond
       their control. It should also be noted that these extensions were determined based on a due
       process being followed. However, the contractors managed their work programs within
       the extended periods where the contracts were completed well within the revised periods.

4. Performance of the Borrower (Para 75 and 76 in Pg. 17, para 24.i in page 06)

       1. We agree that the Borrower failed to allocate adequate counterpart funds for road
          maintenance in the years of 2011, 2012, 2013. But the Borrower allocated adequate
          funds in the years of 2014 and 2015 covering the gaps in the previous years, which
          provided the amounts stipulated in the PAD in total. Furthermore, the project awarded
          all the anticipated contracts under this component and achieved the agreed target. As a
          result the Uva road network improved substantially at the end of the project.

       2. There was no part time staff in the PIU as indicated in the ICR. As agreed in the PAD,
          the staff of the Provincial Road Development Department (PRDD) in each of the


                                                42
            provinces implemented the project. In effect, the PMU was the PRDD. The project was
            designed in this way to ensure sustainability where the capacity created by the project
            is retained rather than have a PMU that disbands at the end of a project. Even today,
            this staff continue to engage in similar activity equipped with the capacity enhanced
            through this project.

5. Performance of the consultants.( para 72 of page 16)

    We agree that the performance of the Supervision consultants is moderately satisfactory. In
    fact, this has led to most of the issues. Our opinion is, that the selection process of the
    consultants need to be changed in order to ensure that we have technically competent
    consultants who are able to advise the Government appropriately. In this project, we followed
    the QCBS method and as a result of being influenced by low cost, we were unable to capture
    firms that have high technical capacity. Most often, after the award of the contract, staff were
    replaced by those who appear to have the same qualification on paper but who are retained at
    lower rates and provide substandard inputs. We have in the project taken many steps to
    overcome this situation by replacing the Team leader of the supervision consultants several
    times, but the number of replacements that can be done in a project is limited due to the
    disruption of work that it creates. Therefore we propose to follow the CQS method in selecting
    the consultants in the future projects to avoid this situation.

Considering the above facts placed before you, we respectfully request you to reconsider the ratings
provided in the ICR.




                                                43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                         44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Project Appraisal Document for Provincial Roads Project, Nov 2009, Report No: 48445-LK
2.   Project Paper, November 2014, Report No. RES15923
3.   Financing Agreement, January 2010, Credit Number 4630-LK
4.   Aide Memoires and Management Letters – Implementation Support Missions: 2010 to 2015
5.   Implementation Status Results Report – Sequence 1 to 11
6.   Government Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper – Mahinda Chintana
7.   Country Assistance Strategy FY 09-12
8.   Country Partnership Strategy FY 13-16
9.   Borrower’s Completion Report – September 2015




                                             45
Annex 10. Reduction in Travel Time by Road




                                            Baseline                 EOP
              Project Roads                                                               Reduction in 
                                          Travel Time             Travel Time 
            (name / distance)                                                             Travel Time 
                                           (minutes)               (minutes) 
                                               Uva Province 
  Uva 1                                             100.00                   45.00                    55% 
  Uva 2                                              82.00                   32.00                    61% 
  Uva 3                                              36.00                   20.00                    44% 
  Uva 4                                              62.00                   20.00                    68% 
  Uva 5                                             119.00                   45.00                    62% 
  Uva Province Summary                              399.00                  162.00                    59% 
                                                                                                           
                                             Eastern Province 
  EP 01                                             80.00                    12.50                    84% 
  EP 02                                             75.00                    15.10                    80% 
  EP 04                                            130.00                    25.00                    81% 
  Eastern Province Summary *                       285.00                    52.60                    82% 
  * Traffic survey for EP05 and EP07 not taken as road works were still in progress at survey time 
                                                                                                           
                                             Northern Province 
  NP 01                                             27.39                    19.36                    29% 
  NP 02                                             33.90                    20.60                    39% 
  NP 03R                                            39.08                    23.48                    40% 
  NP 05R                                            26.49                    14.94                    44% 
  Northern Province Summary                        126.86                    78.38                    38% 
                                                                                                           
  Project Summary 
                                                    810.86                  292.98                    64% 
  (all provinces) 




                                                   46
MAP – IBRD 36976, 37351 and 37371




                                    47
48
49
