CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 475 RW
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 5, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 475 RW
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 5, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing part of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the United Nations Development
Programme to provide financial assistance towards the financing of Part C of the
Project and part of the consultants' services under Part A of the Project;
(C)   The Borrower intends to contract from  the Kingdom   of Belgium
(hereinafter called Belgium) a grant (hereinafter called the Belgian Grant) in an
amount equivalent to $500,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Belgian Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Belgium;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
s.t forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective


﻿4
meanings therein set forth and the term "DRB" means the Directorate General
of Roads and Bridges of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Equipment,
and any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million three hundred thousand
dollars ($6,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. If at any time the Borrower obtains a grant or other financial
assistance from the United Nations Development Programme to meet all or part
of the estimated foreign exchange requirements of Part C of the Project and of
part of the consultants' services for civil works under Part A of the Project, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower cancel the corresponding amounts of
the Credit under Categories I and III of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Upon
the giving of such notice such amounts of the Credit shall be cancelled.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿5
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January I
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1984, and ending January 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, financial and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the design
standards to be used for the road specified in Part A of the Project shall be as
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall not carry out the detailed engineering for
the Kigali-Ruhengeri and Ruhengeri-Cyanika roads under Part B of the Project until


﻿6
the Borrower shall have reached agreement with Belgium and the Association on
the terms of reference for such detailed engineering.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
approval a technical assistance and training program to be financed under Part
C of the Project not later than six months as from the date of this Agreement
or such other period of time as shall be agreed by the Association.
(b)   In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall promptly take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire ai such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required


﻿7
for carrying out Part A of the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land have been acquired.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all measures reasonably required to
ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using its national highway
network shall not exceed limits consistent with the design standards for such roads.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall collect and record in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures such data as are required to assess
the technical, economic and financial aspects of the Borrower's road network for
proper planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions of the said road
network.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause its national road network to be
adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made
promptly, all in accordance with sound engineering practices and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
such maintenance and repairs.
(b)   The Borrower shall discuss with the Association the adequacy of its
annual budget for maintenance of its national road network.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Infornation and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿8
(a)   exchange views through     their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purpcses
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform     each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿9
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower and the
consultants who are to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A of the Project
shall have entered into a contract in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date September 15, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Public Works and Equipment of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Public Works and Equipment
P.O. Box 24
Kigali, Rwanda
Cable address:
MINITRAPE
Rwanda
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
By /s / H.E. Joseph Nizeyimana
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / B. R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Oedit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Civil works for                3,500,000            92% of total
road improvement                                    expenditures
II.   Consultant's                     400,000            100% of foreign
services for                                        expenditures
civil works
III.  Technical Assist-                700,000            100% of foreign
ance and Training                                   expenditures
IV.   Unallocated                    1,700,000
TOTAL         6,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:


﻿12
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category II on account of expenditures
incurred after October 1, 1973 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $30,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
1 above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall


﻿13
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   the improvement of the Ruhengeri-Gisenyi road to two-lane paved standard
(about 60 km).
B.   the completion of feasibility studies and, if justified by the said feasibility
studies, detailed engineering of the Kigali-Ruhengeri road (about 116 km)
and of the Ruhengeri-Cyanika road (about 27 km).
C.   the technical assistance to the DRB and the training of Rwandese DRB
personnel under programs agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Contracts Governed by Guidelines
With respect to any contract for civil works:
(a)   Bidders shall be required to prequalify and at least 45 days shall be
allowed for submission of prequalification documents. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as. the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   The firms invited to bid shall be allowed at least 60 days for the
submission of their proposals. The bidding documents shall be accompanied by
a bid bond or bank guarantee amounting to not less than 2% of the estimated
contract value.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿16
(e)   The successful bidder shall, at the Borrower's option, furnish either
a performance bond or a bank guarantee in an amount of not less than 10% of
the contract price, which bond or guarantee shall remain in effect until one year
after completion of the works provided for in the contract. In addition, the contract
shall provide for retention of not less than 10% of the cost of works on each
monthly invoice. These retentions may cease to be made when the cumulative
amount retained reaches about 5% of the total contract price. One-half of the
retention moneys shall be released when all the work has been substantially
completed, and the other half fourteen days after the termination of the
contractor's responsibility in respect of defects. The period during which the
contractor will remain responsible in respect of defects in the works (fair wear
and tear excepted) will extend for one year after provisional acceptance of the
works.
(f)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(g)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards for the Ruhengeri-Gisenyi Road
Design Speed                                             60 km/h
Maximum grade:
Normal                                               6%
Exceptional                                         12%
Minimum Curve Radius:
Horizontal                                          50 m
Vertical                                          1500 m
Width of Carriageway                                      6 m
Width of Shoulders
Normal                                             1.0 m
Exceptional                                        0.5 m
Surface                                      Bituminous Surface Treatment


