Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 11870
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2270-EGT)
MAY 14, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East & North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(LE per US$)
GOE Fiscal Year                                               Exchange Rate
1984-85                                                             0.84
1985-86                                                             0.84
1986-87                                                             1.37
1987-88                                                             1.54
1988-89                                                              2.23
1989-90                                                             2.56
1990-91                                                             2.57
1991-92                                                             3.30
1992-93                                                              3.33
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BCM               Billion Cubic Meter
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP            Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FD                Feddan (one fd equal to 1.037 acres)
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDA               International Development Association
Kwh               Kilowatt hours
MALR              Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MED               Mechanical and Electric Department of MPWWR
MPWWR             Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources
O&M               Operation and Maintenance
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFWCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 14, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Egypt
Irrization Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Proiect (Ln. 2270-EGT)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Egypt - Irrigation Pumping Stations
Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 2270-EGT) prepared by the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project was designed to replace, rehabilitate and repair irrigation and drainage
pump stations, and to strengthen the operation and maintenance capabilities of the
Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources. After early procurement and contracting
delays, the project was eventually satisfactorily completed over nine years compared with
five years originally planned. However, physical achievements were double those planned
because there were substantial dollar cost savings arising from exchange rate movements
which the Bank agreed to use for further pump station investments. Institutional
objectives were achieved with minor exceptions.
The PCR gives a comprehensive account of the project experience. This relatively
simple engineering project did not include any related policy conditionality which would
have made a satisfactory and sustainable project outstanding. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their
official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2270-EGT)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii-vi
PART I      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . .         1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Background   .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . .        2
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . .        3
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        5
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        8
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Lessons Learned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Project Documentation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
PART II     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE. . . .    14
PART III    SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA  . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
TabLe  1  Related Bank Loan and/or Credit . . . . . . . . .    15
Table  2  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Table  3  Cumulative Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Table  4  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Table  5  Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Table  6  Status of Covenant  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Table  7  Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Table  8  A. Stations' Specification and Type of Service. .
Received Under the Project  . . . . . . . .    22
B. Selected Station Power Consumption and Water .
Discharge Before and After the Project  .        25
C. Cropped Area, Production and Gross Economic
Revenue in Project Area . . . . . . . . . .    26
D. Average Saving in Maintenance Cost for a . . .
Pumping Station . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
E. Project Cost and Benefits. . . . . . . . . . .    28
MAP - IBRD No. 16122R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2270-EGT)
PREFACE
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Irrigation
Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project in Egypt, for which Loan 2270-EGT in
the amount of US$41.5 million was approved on April 26, 1983. The project's
scope was expanded more than three fold during Implementation, and the Loan
was closed on June 30,1992, two and half years behind schedule. To
accommodate final disbursements, the loan accounts were kept open four months
beyond the closing date. The last disbursement was made on November 24, 1992
and the undisbursed balance of $1.02 million (2.5% of the loan amount) was
cancelled.
2.          The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the
Country Department II, Middle East and North Africa Region (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Part I and III)1/, and a draft copy of these two parts was
submitted to the borrower. The borrower endorsed the report and conveyed
their comments to the Bank (Part II). Preparation of the PCR is based on the
findings of a PCR mission and on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.
)/    The Task Manager for the report is Mr. Nejdet Al-Salihi, Irrigation
Engineer, MN2AG. The report was prepared by Mr. Mohammad Usman,
Consultant, MN2AG.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2270-EGT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.          Agriculture is important in Egypt's economy, providing about 20%
of GDP and merchandise export, and employing 35% of the labor force.
Limitation of water and arable land are the two major constraints affecting
Egyptian agriculture. Cultivated land in Egypt is limited to only about 3% to
4% of the total land area, and at 0.05 ha. Egypt has one of the lowest ratios
of land per capita in the world. The country is almost entirely dependent on
irrigation and has no effective rainfall except in a narrow band along the
northern coastal area. The construction of High Aswan Dam permitted the
entire flow of the Nile to be captured, enabling Egyptian farmers to practice
double or in some places triple cropping systems.
2.          Despite the single source of water supply, the water management
and delivery system in Egypt is very complex. Endowed with a flat topography
and practicing an intensive irrigated agricultural system, Egyptians must pump
and lift water several times to make it accessible to farmers and, then lift,
re-use and flush out the drained water. The Mechanical and Electric
Department (MED) of the Ministry of Public Works and Water resources manages
and operates all 773 irrigation and drainage pumping stations in Egypt. The
Irrigation Pumping Station Rehabilitation Project, implemented by MED,
represented the Bank's first involvement in rehabilitating the drainage and
irrigation pumping stations. Most of the project's stations were very old,
with an average life span of more than 30 years, and were operating under
adverse conditions.
Obiective
3.          The project aimed at appraisal to: (a) rehabilitate 30 irrigation
and drainage pumping stations so that any harmful effect of failure on crops
could be avoided, and to reduce the operation and maintenance cost of these
stations; and (b) strengthen maintenance capabilities of the institution
responsible for operating pumping stations in Egypt by establishing a modern
pump maintenance system, a spare part inventory control system, and a cost
accounting system.



- iv -
Implementation
4.          Although a few impediments prolonged the project's implementation
period, project implementation was successful and the implementation served as
a learning experience both for the borrower and for the Bank. Initially, the
borrower was hesitant to borrow on IBRD lending terms, which postponed the
project negotiation by nearly a year. Similarly, project closing lapsed two
and a half years from Its appraisal target of December 31, 1989. However,
this time lapse was mainly due to three-fold expansion in the project scope,
from rehabilitating 30 to 90 stations. To some extent, factors such as
inflexible project design, over-estimation of equipment costs, the contracting
public construction companies' financial and managerial problems, and the
MED's (implementing agency) lack of civil work experience and lack of
knowledge of ICB procurement procedures also contributed to implementation
delays.
5.          Several important decisions were made during project execution
which improved the project's implementation. The "turnkey" contract system
(where the principal contractor is either the equipment supplier or the
contractor of civil works) was adopted, which facilitated conformity between
the new civil structures and the pump's mechanical requirements. The Bank
eased its insistence on submission of bids with an alternative design
solution, which accelerated the bid evaluation processes. Based on more
reliable information on the stations' rehabilitation needs and on actual
equipment price quotations received, project costs were recalculated in 1986
which resulted in substantial savings in project cost. The project was
redesigned: its scope was expanded from rehabilitation of 30 stations to 90
stations, and a new component "provision of weed screens and clearing
machines" was added under the project. These modifications expanded project
objectives as the rehabilitation target set by appraisal was only a small part
of rehabilitation needs of pumping stations in Egypt. The only issue which
remained unresolved was the MED's weak civil work capacity, which has been
addressed by a follow-up project, the Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project
II (PSRP II).
Results
6.          The project objectives were more than fully met, with some minor
exceptions in institutional strengthening. Two new pumping stations were
constructed, with work in progress on a third station, while appraisal
targeted only one station; 34 stations had equipment replaced against the
appraisal target of 14; and 43 stations had repairs carried out against a
target of 15. In addition, the project established 2 central and 14 regional
workshops, and 24 staff houses, and installed 85 submersible pumps in Tahrir
South and weed screens in 18 stations. Spare parts and equipment for
replacement of another 10 pumping stations were also delivered to the
construction sites; the civil works and erection of equipment were in
different stages of progress in these stations.
7.          The borrower also established a Directorate General of Technical
Inspection (DGTI), and created a computerized Management Information System
(MIS) with the project's support. DGTI and MIS have already made some



progress in developing systems for preventive maintenance, personnel, payroll,
and equipment inventory. These initiatives were undertaken only recently, and
it will take some time to establish a modern pumping repair and inventory
system. The overall project's ERR is calculated to be 36% at project closing,
compared with an estimated ERR of 44% at appraisal. The appraisal's ERR was
derived on the basis of claiming benefits from both replacement and repair
works. By comparison, the ERR calculated for PCR includes benefits derived
only from station. which were replaced not from those which were repaired,
because of difficulty in quantifying these benefits.
Sustainability
8.          The water delivery and drainage costs have become priority issues
in recent years in the Bank's sectoral dialogue. This project reduced the
stations' O&M costs by more than LE 8 million annually, as it replaced old
dilapidated equipment with high maintenance cost and improved pumps'
efficiency, resulting in lower maintenance and energy costs. As such, the
project enhanced sustainability of pumping operations and reduced the
government's budgetary burden.
9.          The government, in collaboration with donors, is investigating
appropriate mechanism to pass water charges onto the beneficiaries. Studies
are underway to assess the optimal level of funds required to operate,
maintain, and rehabilitate irrigation systems, and to evaluate the farmer's
ability to pay for irrigation water. Based on the recommendations of these
two studies, a third study will establish the collection mechanism. In
addition, as part of the cost recovery and cost reduction efforts, the
government handed over operation costs including repair and maintenance
responsibility of 67 small booster pump stations to the farmers unions by the
end of 1991, and another 56 stations had been scheduled to be handed over by
the end of 1992. Under the new arrangement, NED may assist the unions in
repair and maintenance work of these stations at cost price.
Lessons Learned
10*         The appraisal allowed only five years for project implementation,
which resulted in several extensions to the loan agreement. However, the slow
pace of awarding contracts and implementation of civil works required
allocation of longer implementation periods at the outset. Furthermore, the
appraisal did not fully review the institutional limitations of MED in civil
works, which created continuous bottlenecks in project implementation.
11.         The project design should have allowed a flexible approach for
rehabilitation of these pumping stations, as their numbers were quite large,
with varied repair needs during the project execution period. A program
approach with financing of a time slice of an ongoing program would have been
more appropriate and would have provided the required flexibility.
12.         The publicly-owned construction companies involved in project
contracts encountered internal budgetary and managerial problems which delayed
the project civil work progress. While these coinpanies received contracts on
the basis of low unit price quotations, the shortage of working capital during



- vi -
construction periods became a major stumbling block to progress of works. The
public construction companies have acquired some autonomy for their operations
under enterprise reform laws since 1991, and they have been transferred under
the control of a public Holding Company for public work. To mitigate cash-
flow problem in the future, financial stability should be a condition for
contractors' prequalification, if the civil work contractor is the prime
contractor. However, if the equipment contractor is the prime contractor,
appropriate conditions should be included for the selection of sub-contractors
to ensure financial stability.
13.         The appraisal estimated project equipment cost on the basis of
United States prices. However, it would have been more appropriate to
estimate costs on the basis of European or Japanese equipment prices, as most
of the pumps were of European origin, or to use an average world market price
(as under ICB contracting system) which would have also been more relevant.
VA



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2270-EGT)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Name            :Irrigation Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project
Loan Number    : 2270-EGT
EYP Unit        : MENA Region
Country        : Egypt
Sector         : Agriculture
Subsector        Irrigation
Background
1.1         Agriculture is an important sector of the Egyptian economy,
providing about 20% of GDP and merchandise exports, and employing 35% of the
labor force. Limitation of water and arable land are the two major
constraints affecting Egyptian agriculture. Cultivated land in Egypt is
limited to only about 3% to 4% of the total land area, and at 0.05 ha, Egypt
has one of the lowest ratios of land per capita in the world. Agricultural
GDP fell from 3.5% in the 1970. to 2.5% in the 1980s. In the wake of a
program of economic liberalization and social reform, the production of wheat,
maize, beans, fruit and vegetables has increased significantly in recent
years. During the same period, the rate of population growth showed a
declining trend, and approached an estimated 2% in 1992. However, production
levels for the most important commodities remain inadequate to meet national
demands.
1.2         Egypt's agricultural conditions are unique.  The country has no
effective rainfall except in a narrow band along the northern coastal areas,
and it is almost entirely dependent on irrigation. Consequently, agricultural
development is closely linked to the Nile River and it. management. The
construction of the High Aswan Dam permitted the entire flow of the Nile to be
captured, and the Egypt-Sudan water treaty allocated 55.5 billion cubic meters
of water annually to Egypt. The Nile system, which extends 1200 km from Aswan
to the Mediterranean Sea, consists of two storage dams at Aswan, seven major
barrages, and about 31,000 km of canals. The Nile water is diverted to these
irrigation canals either through large regulating barrages or through pumping.



The canals deliver water into "meskas," which are channels serving 100 to 500
fd. The delivery of water up to meskas level is the government's
responsibility; thereafter, farmers take charge of delivery of water to their
fields.
1.3         Despite a single source of water supply, the water management and
delivery system in Egypt is very complex. Due to flat topography and double
or even triple cropping systems, the water has to be pumped and lifted several
times without any break to satisfy the needs of its intensive agricultural
system. Similarly, rather expensive drainage facilities must be established
and maintained to control ground water levels and salinity to preserve crop
yields. As such, keeping these irrigation and drainage pumping facilities in
operation and maintaining their efficiency, which is focus of this project, is
vital for Egyptian agriculture.
Proiect Obiectives and DescriRtion
1.4         Proiect Objectives: In pursuit of the government policies for the
agricultural sector, the objectives of the Irrigation Pumping Stations
Rehabilitation Project at appraisal were: (a) to rehabilitate 30 irrigation
and drainage pumping stations serving about 1,134,000 feddans, so that any
harmful effect of failure of crops could be avoided, and to reduce the
operation and maintenance cost of these stations; and (b) to strengthen the
maintenance capabilities of the institution responsible for operating pumping
stations in Egypt by establishing a modern pump maintenance system, a spare
part inventory control system, and a cost accounting system. While the
general objectives of the project remained Intact, the project scope increased
during implementation to rehabilitation of 90 pumping stations. Expansion of
the rehabilitation effort was pursued because of considerable saving in costs
of equipment procured under ICB procedures and the urgent need for
rehabilitation and maintenance of additional stations which were not
incorporated in appraisal due to financing constraint.
1.5         Proiect DescriDtion: The project as it was appraised consisted of
the following components:
(a)   Rehabilitation of 30 pumping stations and construction of
new ones as follows:
(i)   construction of a new pumping station at Bayara;
(ii) replacement of pump units and other equipment in 14
other stations; and
(iii) provision of spare parts for the rehabilitation of 15
additional stations.
(b)   Provision of 3 central workshops and 15 regional workshops
and instruments for the establishment of 6 electrical
laboratories to strengthen the repair facilities of MED and
to insure appropriate maintenance of pump units;



-3 -
(C)   Provision of spare parts in emergency cases for pumping
stations other than those to be rehabilitated under (a)
above; vehicles, mobile cranes, forklifts; and a central
control system for the 5 successive pumping
station. of the Nasr Canal;
(d)   Provision of staff houses for workshop technicians and pump
operators; and
(e)   Provision of technical assistance to design a pump
maintenance system, to establish separate project accounts
and a cost accounting system and to design and establish a
store inventory control system.
1.6         Due to substantial cost saving and on the basis of a detailed
assessment of individual station rehabilitation requirements, the following
expansion and modifications were made to the scope of the project in February
1986:
(i)   The scope of component (a) was expanded to rehabilitate
about 90 stations, including reconstruction of 5 stations,
and replacement of circuit breakers for the Nasr Canal
Pumping Station; and
(ii) The project scope was further expanded to cover a new
component "provision of weed screens and clearing machines."
These modifications in the project components were made to further project
objectives, since the rehabilitation target set by appraisal was only a small
part of the overall rehabilitation needs of the irrigation and drainage
pumping station in Egypt, and weed screen clearing machines at the pumping
stations help keep weeds out of the station to reduce wear and tear on pumps.
Proiect Desian and Oreanization
1.7         The project concept originated from the Irrigation Subsector
Review2, which recommended that first priority be given to the rehabilitation
of aging pumping stations to secure the continuation of proper operations and
to prevent production declines. Most of the stations were old with an average
life span ranging between 17 and 49 years, and they were operating with
substantial operating and maintenance costs under adverse conditions including
lack of spare parts, inappropriate maintenance systems, and excessive hours of
daily operation. Due to both age and lack of adequate maintenance facilities,
the reliability of these stations to deliver water according to schedule was
dropping at an accelerating rate.   The project came at an opportune time to
rehabilitate the pumping stations and to strengthen the institution
2/ IBRD Report No. 3371-EGT, March 5,1981.



- 4 -
maintenance capacity of MED for implementing an appropriate preventive
maintenance system.
1.8         The Mechanical and Electric Department (MED) of the Ministry of
Public Works and Water Resources was responsible for implementation of the
project. MED manages and operates all irrigation and drainage pumping
stations in Egypt. Presently, it operates about 773 pumping stations,
consisting of 675 irrigation stations and 98 drainage stations. In addition,
MED manages an estimated 247 tubewells which are used for pumping groundwater
from wells. The Irrigation Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project developed
with MED's participation from identification stage. As such, MED was familiar
with the project design and components.
1.9         Project preparation was carried out by a Bank/FAO-CP mission in
June, 1981. Subsequently, the Appraisal mission visited Egypt in
September/October, 1981. The appraisal mission endorsed most of the
recommendations of the preparation mission, and with the MED's concurrence, it
incorporated into the project provisions for strengthening MED's institutional
capability to perform preventative maintenance.
1.10        The project represented the Bank's first involvement with the MED
as well as it is the first major repair operation for pumping stations in
Egypt. As such, the project as designed at the appraisal had a fixed program
for the rehabilitation requirements, paid inadequate attention to
strengthening MED's civil work capacity, and was optimistic in the assessment
of time required to establish a modern maintenance and repair system. The SAR
approached the pumping stations' rehabilitation needs in a static way,
providing almost a firm program for rehabilitation of 30 pumping stations. A
program for pumping station rehabilitation could have been developed with this
project picking up a time slice of the program. Soon, however, both the Bank
and MED realized the changing needs of the irrigation and drainage pumps
during the project's implementation period. Consequently, a flexible approach
was introduced, allowing stations to be reviewed and included in a phased
rehabilitation program.
1.11        The MED, while equipped with a cadre of experienced mechanical and
electrical engineers who successfully managed the pumping stations since 1920,
lacked skilled manpower in civil works to ensure timely implementation of this
component of the project. The appraisal mission realized this shortcoming and
attempted to overcome it by making a covenant condition requiring MED to
assign an adequate number of qualified civil engineers from MPW to supervise
clvil work. Unfortunately, no permanent civil englneering administration
structure within MED's administration system was created. The MED had to rely
for the civil work design and supervision on MPW staff or contractors. A. a
result, project implementation faced continued civil-work related problems
which slowed implementation progress, particularly during the initial stages
of the project. However, under the Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project II
(PSRP II), a Directorate for Technical Inspection has been established and
civil works has been strengthened.



- 5 -
1.12        Also, the project did not anticipate the complexity and time
required for institutional strengthening; it was, therefore, anticipated that
by the end of the project's second year, a modern pumping repair and
maintenance, inventory control, and accounting system would be established.
While gradual progress is being made to achieve these goal., additional
follow-up under PSRP II is being pursued to establish a fully modern pumping
rehabilitation system in Egypt.
Project Implementation
1.13        Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-uot: Project appraisal was
completed in 1982; however, the government turned down the Bank's March 1982
invitation to negotiate. This was due to the Irrigation Ministry's hesitation
to borrow at IBRD terms, as the project initially considered IDA financing,
but during project processing, the decision was made to graduate Egypt from
IDA financing. Also, the Ministry did not succeed in its efforts to find
alternative sources of soft funds. Pumps in Egypt were of diverse origins and
technical specifications. Their rehabilitation necessitated purchase of parts
from the original suppliers or manufacturers. As such, the project was not
attractive for financing by bilateral donors. The Ministry, finally, agreed
to the Bank's second invitation of negotiation, in March 15, 1983.
1.14        During the negotiation, the Government indicated that if
alternative financing were found in the next three months, an equivalent
amount of the Bank Loan would be cancelled. However, alternative sources of
financing were not found, and the government complied with the condition of
effectiveness with a delay of less than one month. That delay was due to the
slow ratification process of the project's legal documents in the Egyptian
People's Assembly. The project thus became effective in November 1983.
1.15        Implementation Schedule: Although the project's closing date
lapsed two and a half years from its appraisal target of December 31, 1989,
this was mainly due to a more than three fold expansion in project scope from
that envisaged in the appraisal. In addition, other issues such as MED's
unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement and reporting requirements,
estimation of the project costs, and the issues stated in paras 1.10 to 1.12
caused delays in the implementation, especially during the first two years of
the project. However, MED and the Bank successfully resolved most of these
issues enabling the project to far surpass the stipulated physical targets.
1.16        ProcureMent: During the first two years of project implementation,
the procurement was generally slow; in some cases, nearly a year was required
to prepare procurement documents acceptable to the Bank. However, once the
MED became familiar with Bank procurement guidelines, procurement progressed
without much delay. The slow procurement progress was mainly due to the
following factors:
(a)   Unfamiliarity of MED with the Bank's
international competitive bidding (ICB)



-6 -
requirements: MED's insistence that the bid
bonds from foreign banks should be counter-
guaranteed by an Egyptian bank, that all foreign
bidders should have local agents, that Arabic
text should prevail in settling any
disagreements, that contractors should favor
Egyptians for employment. To mitigate these
issues, a consultant was hired who modified the
MED procurement document and made it harmonious
with the Bank procurement guidelines; and the
MED staff were also provided with Bank
procurement procedures during their visit to the
Bank.  These efforts gradually succeeded to
ameliorate the procurement difficulties.
(b)   The confusion over the "turnkey" contract form in the Bank:
While the staff appraisal report allowed the "turnkey"
contract form (where the principle contractor is either
the equipment supplier or the contractor of civil works),
the Regional Procurement Unit proposed that contract be
separated into two contracts: one for equipment and the
other for civil works. However, based on the borrower's
preference and the Bank's prior commitments, the Bank
finally agreed with the turnkey contract form. The
"turnkey" also eased the complication involved in
establishing conformity between the new civil structures for
pump stations and the mechanical and electric requirements
of the stations.
(c)   The use of a two-stage bidding system:  With the
intention of finding the most appropriate design, the staff
appraisal report recommended that, for the construction of
the new station at Bayara and the replacement of the pump
units in other stations, a clause be included in the tender
documents that blds with alternative design solutions be
accepted and considered in the bid evaluation process.
However, tenderers came up with too many alternative
designs, in some cases up to 800, reviewing of which took
considerable time. Thus, the two-stage system was
discontinued by joint agreement, by the end of 1984.
(d)   Lack of Local Funds:  As civil work was financed entirely
from the government budget, during the project's first few
years, lack of adequate local budgetary allocation delayed
civil work contracts (para 1.33).
1.17        Proiect Costs: The cost of the Irrigation Pumping Station
Rehabilitation at appraisal was estimated at US$68 million, composed of a loan
of US$41 million to finance 100% of the project's foreign exchange costs, and



-7 -
a government contribution of about US$27 million to finance the local
expenditures.   During implementation, however, MED and  Bank concluded that
about US$30.4 million from the loan component could be saved due to three
unforeseen developments: (a) reduced actual equipment prices, with an
estimated savings of US$10.5 million. The SAR cost estimates were based on US
supplier prices, while actual contracts for supply of equipment, under ICS
procedures, were concluded with the European and Japanese suppliers, at about
one-half of the price of US equipment (mainly due to the change in relative
currency values); (b) the emergence of new developments in Bayara and Aadessia
I and II pumping stations, with a resulting estimated savings of US$6.5
million. At appraisal, one existing pumping station was expected to be taken
out of service at Bayara station, as it was no longer possible to obtain new
windings for motors from the original supplier. However, this problem was
subsequently solved, and the station put back in operation with some
rehabilitation works. Aadessia I and II pumping stations were deleted from
the project due to severe settlement problems in the foundations which
required extensive investigation and redesigning; and (c) a lower inflation
rate than that estimated in the SAR which resulted in savings of US$13.4
million (the amount provided for contingencies' allowances in the SAR).
1.18        These savings made it possible to expand the project scope, as
explained in para 1.6. The final cost amounted to US$56.4 million as shown in
Table 5A in Part III. While from the Bank loan US$1.02 million, remained
unutilized and was cancelled, a major factor for the divergence between
appraisal and actual realized costs is explained by the exchange rate applied
to convert government contribution to US dollars. The LE depreciated against
US dollar more than three fold since appraisal.
1.19        Disbursement: The estimated, revised and actual disbursements of
Loan 2270-EGT are provided in Table 3, Part III. Volume and pace of
disbursement was much reduced due to the realization of substantial cost
underrun for project components as originally designed, subsequent expansion
of the project size, and delays in project implementation. The disbursement
was spread over nearly nine years, from the date of effectiveness, November
1983, and continuing through November 1992. At the end of the project, a
balance of US$1.02 million remained which was cancelled on November 24, 1992.
1.20        Loan Allocation: The original and revised allocation and actual
disbursements for Loan 2270-EGT are shown in Table 5B, Part III. The original
allocations to the category 2, machinery and equipment for workshops, and
category 3, consultants were reduced; saving made under these categories plus
"unallocated" loan amount were added to category 1, machinery and equipment
for rehabilitation of pumping stations and provision of staff houses, in April
30, 1989, based on the expenditure commitments made or expected at that time.
1.21        Regorting: The project's progress and auditing reports experienced
delays at the beginning of project implementation. To speed project
implementation, the Bank requested a detailed implementation schedule, to
which MED complied, with some delays.



Proiect Results
1.22        Proiect Obiectives: The project's physical objective of
rehabilitating 30 pumping stations was more than fully met. With mome minor
exceptions, the objective of institutional strengthening in pumping repair and
maintenance was also met. Two new pumping stations were constructed and work
was in progress on a third station, while appraisal targeted only one station;
34 stations were replaced against the appraisal target of 14t and 43 stations
were repaired against a target of 15. Also, the spare parts and equipment for
replacement of another 10 pumping stations were delivered in the construction
sites, and on these stations, the civil work and erection of equipment were in
different stages of progress (refer to Table BA, Part III for details). Also,
spare parts were provided for 50 pumplng stations, for Tahrir South 85
submersible pumps were supplied, and in 18 stations weed screens were
installed. In addition, 2 central and 14 regional workshops and 24 staff
houses were built under the project. Although appraisal included
rehabilitation of 6 electric laboratories under the project, this work could
not get completed due to MED's reorganization programs. However, consultant
assessed the rehabilitation needs of these laboratories and submitted their
draft report; the work will be taken under PSRP II, the follow-up project.
1.23        In 3988, consultants reviewed pumping stations maintenance
procedures, accounts, and store inventory control system. Based on the
review's recommendations, MED after some delays established a Directorate
General of Technical Inspection with 10 engineers in 1991, and gradually began
to implement a preventive maintenance schedule for each station. With the
Bank's persistent efforts, MED established a computerized Management
Information System (MIS) 'in 1989. A panel of experts, financed by UNDP,
assisted MED in choice of equipment and of technical support for MIS. HIS
which is considered a major breakthrough has been implementing a stations
operating and maintenance system, a building and structure maintenance system,
and a personnel and payroll system. As such, the project has achieved with
some minor exceptions, its institutional strengthening objective. However,
due to delays in consultancy appointment and in actual implementation of
consultant's advice, the institutional changes have only recently been made,
and the project has not had adequate time to fully incorporate these new
systems into the MED's operations. The Pumping Stations Rehabilitation
Project II is closely pursuing these issues.
1.24        Proiect Impact: Maintaining the irrigation and drainage pumping
stations in operative and efficient condition is not only vital for the
economy of the agriculture sector in Egypt, but also substantially reduces the
O&M costs. The project assisted in accomplishing these goals through, (a)
improvement in overall pumping efficiency; (b) reduction in maintenance costsa
and (c) enhancement in reliability of pumping stations. The overall
efficiency is the water output divided by the energy input and is the product
of the efficiencies of transformer, motor, gearbox, and pump. These benefits
were considered for 47 stations which were replaced, with the assumption that



-9-
the replaced pumps would have 10 years service life3. Based on these
assumptions and based on the analysis of data assembled from 10 representative
pumping stations, it was calculated that the project saves about 26 million
kwh of energy per year. Available data indicate that a 15% water deficit in a
critical period would result in yield declines of 8%-23%(FAO), and that
inadequate drainage would reduce crop yields by 12%-16% (field trials in
Egypt). Based on these reports and preliminary data provided by MED
concerning this project, it is calculated that the project saves LE 4.1
million annually in energy cost, and about LE 4.4 million annually in
maintenance expenditures through the project life, in constant 1992 prices.
Also it is conservatively assumed that, in the situation of without project
(without replacing these pumping stations), the net value of crop production
would decline by 5% during the project life period. With these benefits, the
ERR for the project is calculated to be 36% compared to 44% calculated during
project appraisal. Appraisal's ERR was derived on the basis of benefit
results obtained elsewhere, theoretical pump's energy consumption and claiming
benefits from both replacement and repair works; however, the ERR calculated
in here was based on both actual and empirical data, and benefits derived only
from stations which were replaced not from those which were repaired because
of difficulty in quantifying these benefits (refer to Table BE, Part III for
details).
1.25        The ERR calculations do include costs for items for which benefits
could not be easily quantified such as: (a) repairs for 43 pumping stations,
and (b) provision of spare parts for another 50 stations, and an additional 85
small submersible and 149 lifting and boosting pumping units. In addition on
the benefit side, as a result of enhanced reliability of pumping stations,
farmers would have incentives to reduce excessive water use. Furthermore,
institutional improvements would strengthen technical operations of MED,
benefitting all pumping stations in Egypt. If these difficult to quantify
benefits were included, the resultant ERR would be higher. The project has
also contributed positively to the environment by: (a) maintaining the water
table at low levels, thus reducing water logging and salinization, and
improving health and environmental conditions for the farming community; (b)
increasing pumping statLon safety by incorporating safety features in station
design; and (c) creating better living conditions through housing provided for
pumping station staff.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
1.26        Cost recovery and sustainability of the irrigation and drainage
project has become a priority issue in the Bank's sectoral dialogue with the
Government. This project reduces O&M costs, thus lessening the government's
budgetary cost burden, especially that of the Ministry of Public Works and
Water Resources. In addition, both through this project and through PSRP II,
the MED's institutional capacity in civil work and in pump maintenance
,/ Appraisal claimed benefits from stations which received repair as well as
those which received replacement services.



- 10 -
operation has been strengthened. Consequently, MED has gradually been
adopting a preventive maintenance system which further improves the project's
sustainability.
1.27        The increased reliability of pumping stations will benefit about
1.5 million farm families. Part of the project cost is indirectly recovered
through applying land taxes on holdings of larger than 3 fd. In addition,
farmers were also taxed indirectly through low procurement prices; therefore,
additional charges on farmers concerning irrigation and drainage was not
established. However, since the adoption of a liberalized marketing system,
the cost recovery of irrigation and drainage has received more attention.
1.28        Progress has already been made in estimating the cost recovery and
water charges. Recently, with the assistance of USAID, two studies were
launched: one study calculated the level of optimal funds required to operate,
maintain and rehabilitate the irrigation system; and a second study is
evaluating the farmer's ability to pay for irrigation water. Based on the
recommendations of these studies, a third study will be carried out to
establish the collection mechanism. In addition, as part of the cost recovery
and cost reduction efforts, the government handed over operation costs
including repair and maintenance responsibility of 67 small booster pump
stations to the farmers unions by the end of 1991, and another 56 stations had
been scheduled to be handed over by the end of 1992. Under the new
arrangement, MED may assist the unions in repair and maintenance work of these
stations at cost price.
Bank Performance
1.29        The Bank contributed to the success of the project through timely
supervision of the project, and by offering professional advice to MED. The
appraisal mission took a correct decision by including in the project
institutional strengthening components to enable MED to adopt an advanced
maintenance system. However, appraisal did not go far enough in identifying
MED's institutional weaknesses in its maintenance and in civil works. Project
preparation should have preferably undertaken studies on preventive
maintenance, cost accounting and inventory control system; and an institution
specialist should have participated in the appraisal to review these studies
and to provide appropriate recommendations in this regard. Also, as stated
earlier, the appraisal team could have provided a flexible approach in the
station rehabilitation work, which caused considerable implementation problems
later on. However, these problems were corrected to a great extent by close
liaison and contact with MED during the project implementation period.
1.30        The Bank sent 16 supervision missions to the field at appropriate
intervals, and kept close contact with the implementing agency. As such, the
Bank managed to play a constructive role in solving implementation problems,
in adopting a program approach for the station rehabilitation, and in
familiarizing MED with the Bank procurement policies.



- 11 -
1.31        The Bank made the right choice in selecting irrigation pumping
station rehabilitation as one of the priority lending activities in
agriculture, and assisting Egypt to develop a sound repair and maintenance
system as a prerequisite for sustaLnability of the country's irrigation and
drainage system.
Borrower Performance
1.32        After the initial delays in project start up, the implementation
gradually improved as the MED gained experience with the IC8 tendering
procedure and mobilized its resources to focus on project implementation. It
is commendable that the borrower was receptive to the supervision missions'
technical advice and agreed to adopt a flexible approach in selecting pumping
stations for rehabilitation and repair. However, the pace of work suffered
from a shortage of local funds, and financial and management problems of some
of the public construction companies which were involved in the project's
civil work.
1.33        MED's budgetary allocations like that of other institutions was
determined on the basis of its past expenditure trends. As such, MED could
not raise adequate local funds to cover fully the project's local funding
requirements for civil works. This problem was evident during the initial
stages of project implementation, which resulted in delaying progress of civil
works.
Proiect Relationship
1.34        The Bank and the borrower maintained cordial and good working
relationships throughout the project implementation. During the initial
stages of project implementation, described in para 1.16, some controversy
over procurement issues emerged. However, these issues were cleared in a
timely fashion and the Borrower acknowledged the relevance of the Bank's
comments, suggestions, and implementation requests. The excellent
relationship resulted in an expanded project scope and an agreement to
undertake a follow-on project.
Lessons Learned
1.35        The appraisal mission was over optimistic about the timeframe
required for project implementation. The time allotted for rehabilitation
work did not properly consider the slow contract awarding system and pace of
civil construction work in Egypt. Also, establishing a modern repair and
maintenance system and creating institutional capacity to effectively deal
with the maintenance and inspection requires considerable time. A project of
this nature should be provided an execution period of seven to eight years to
accomplish its objectives. Also studies related to institutional improvement
should be preferably completed in the early stages of the project to allow
time for execution of recommendations and possible modifications during
implementations.



- 12 -
1.36        The project should have had a flexible approach for rehabilitation
of the.e pumping stations, as their numbirs were quite large, with varied
repair needs during the project execution period. A program approach with
financing of time slice of an ongoing program would have been more appropriate
and provided the required flexibility. Under a flexible approach, project
implementation could be categorized into two parts  stations with available
detailed rehabilitation spec.ifications and with urgent repair needs; and
station. which required additional information to identify their requirements.
1.37        Some of the publicly-owned construction companies which
participated in this project encountered budgetary and managerial problems
that delayed the civil work programs. While theme companies received
contracts on the basis of low unit price quotations, a general shortage of
working capital during construction period became a main stumbling block for
their progress. Under the enterprise reform law of 1991, public construction
companies transferred under the control of a Public Holding Company for public
work, and were put on a par with the private companies and freed to establish
their own rates. Recently, during the Country Implementation Review, the Bank
was informed that the arrears to the Public Works Holding Company from MPWWR
would be cleared against the cross-arrears between the Minietry of Finance and
the Holding Company. Moreover, in order to prevent emergence of new arrears,
new contracts wlll not be signed ln the future unless MPWWR has the funding
for them in its annual budget. However, these reforms came too late tp
influence project civil works. To mitigate contractors' future cash-flow
problems, the financlal cash flow capabillty of contractors should be verlfied
prior to prequalifying them for work, if the civil work contractor is the
prime contractor. However, if the equipment contractor is the prime
contractor, appropriate conditions should be stipulated for the approval of
the sub-contractor to ensure financlal stabllity.
1.38        Project completion mission went through laborious work to assemble
the project cost and beneflt data and still relied on some empirical work done
elsewhere ln order to calculate project's ERR. Approprlate monltorlng and
evaluatlon capacity should have been created in MED, during early project
implementation stages, to enable it to assemble these data and to analyze the
project impacts.
1.39        The appraisal estimated the project equipment cost on the basis of
United States prices. However, it would have been more appropriate to base
cost on European or Japanese equipment prices, as most of the pumps were of
European and Japanese origln. Alternatively, cost estimate could use an
average world market price as under ICB contracting system that would be more
appropriate than the appraieal approach.
Proiect Documentation
1.40        The appraisal report and credit documents were clear.  However,
due to realized savlngs in the project cost during project LmplementatLon, the
project scope expanded and Schedule 2 of the loan document was modified.
Except for the lnstitutional component, the project was relatively simple



- 13 -
involving no complicated engineering design. MED maintained separate project
accounts and dispatched quarterly project progress reports. However, due to
weak coordination and communication between MED and contractors, an up-to-date
information on expenditures and the progress of project work war not provided
in the progress reports, particularly during the early stages of the project
implementation.






- 14 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
mistz7 of Public liorks
aad Water Resourcoe,
Eloctrical DeI
PAX  TBUUSMY5SZVN  COOVR `EEE
MOEWICA.L & E2T1RIOA.L DZP1RTMM'T
FAX W. 20/2/204,270
DkT3i Decoxb. 3, 2.992
TO  I Irs. Ngaze Okomtjo Iweela, Division Chief UN2 LG, tA)u*UA-
3aAk, 1818 H St, X,W, WauhInstoa D.Q.20433 200RM NO, 9007.
iZzIV33 ?AX NO. i 202/,477/13746
PROu,  3ng. Tavadroa' Quirg~u   NrXt Undersecretary of Statb,
Head of M.B.D.
This is page I of 1 pages boing treassitted,
RLMEPONXl:  20392?7
SMT.:  (Laan 22?0, X;G** Pumixg stations Rehapilitation Project X)
Dear 8irs1
Refereace tO the above mention prodeet and the LX*.DIS
preparation of mecti4x II ot cozpletioz Report, we are eno1oami.
o3.r couientt  to the *4port  ma4 whioh we hope can be used to cover
part II,
1- ravizg reviewed part I and part III.'  of thc draft project
ooulp.ltioe l.poxtq we aso iu asr&axeit vwth the tOlt, data and
details included It these two partp  wbt.oh hAve b.eez pr.pa.rd
in coaperation be*t'ren Bask utaft ad  .Eo.D, staft.
2- Wu .oofirx that tl* Easik's, supo2yiaimn zisaion over the long
peraiod of the proQ.1et implauetation bAs consisted of staff
ot ahiah prof*Looail oalibor and they have contributed
positively in pro'ect   pl*ez.ntitionl.,&nd  tho pouit-re
'vriations whish w6re introduced to iA4rease the betefits ot
tha projo'ca..
3- We value the olose coaper0tion PtsUblIshod betieen 1!.S,D. smd
tho Wold BaXnk im Bsuccess-ill;' itxloexnting the roryix2or-
tent fivet rehabilitatiqo  prqjpGi (Li 2270 3.G.T.) and  the
conuixuation of thia closa adiooaperaton in Lxple-
aenting the follow OI ooondd Lo-a 31n "  E;G.T.
W4 th kind Regards,
Tours FaitfUfl.y,
Head of Mach. &leot. Dept.



- 15 -
PART III. SJMMARY STATISTICAL DATA
TABLE 1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credit
Loan/credit                                             Year of
Number                            Title               Aiproval      Status
Cr. 181                  Nile Delta Drainage I             1970       Closed
Cr. 393                  Upper Egypt Drainage I           1973        Closed
Ln. 1276                 Fruits and Vegetables            1976        Closed
Ln. 1235 & Cr. 637       Upper Egypt Drainage II          1976        Closed
Ln. 1439 & Cr. 719       Nile Delta Drainage II           1977        Closed
Cr. 833                  Agricultural Dev. Proj.          1978        Closed
Cr. 988                  First Agroindustries Proj.       1980        Closed
Cr. 1111                 Fish Farming Dev. Proj.          1981        Closed
Cr. 116                  Technical Assistance Proj.       1982        Closed
Ln. 2243                 Second Agroindustries Proj.      1983        Closed
Ln. 3198                 Irrig. Pump. Stn. Rehab. II      1983        On-going
Ln. 2561                 Ag. Development II               1985        on-going
Ln. 2562                 Drainage V Proj.                 1985        On-going
Ln. 2732                 Channel Maintenance Proj.        1986        On-going
Ln. 3071                 Agric. Storage Proj.             1986        On-going
Ln. 3417 & Cr. 2313      National Drainage Proj.          1991        On-going



- 16 -
TABLE 2. Proiect Time Table
Date        Date         Date         Date
Item                     planned     Revised      Revised      Actual
Identification                                                  3/81
Preparation                                                     6/81
Appraisal Mission        9/81                                   9/81
Loan Negotiations        3/82                                   3/83 2/
Board Approval                                                  4/83
Loan Signature                                                  6/83
Loan Effectiveness i    10/83         12/83                    11/83
Loan Closing Y           12/89        12/90        12/91        6/92
Loan Completion           6/88        6/89         6/91         6/92
The government turned down the March 1982 negotiation request mainly due
to the Ministry of Irrigation's reluctance to borrow at IBRD terms as
previously all the Bank financed projects under this ministry were on
IDA terms.
if    The Bank agreed to a 60-day extension in project effectiveness date
which was anticipated to be required for the People's Assembly to review
and approve the project.
The following factors justified the extensions of the Loan closing dates:
expansion in Project scope due to substantial savings in project cost;
trade disturbances in major equipment supplying countries (Eastern
Europe and the Balkans); delays in equipment delivery by manufactures;
and delays in tender evaluation and awarding contracts.



- 17 -
TABLE 3. Cumulative Disbursement
Disbursement (in US$ Million)
Loan 2270-EGT
IBRD Fiscal Year                Estimated   Revised       Actual      Actual i of
and Quarter                     Cumulative  Cumulative  Cumulative  Estimated
1983/84     2                    0.10         0.104       0.104           100
3                   1.38         0.104        0.104            7
4                   2.76         0.184        0.184            6
1984/85     1                    4.14         0.263       0.263             6
2                   5.52         0.663        0.663           12
3                   8.36         2.073        2.073           24
4                  11.19         2.547        2.547           22
1985/86     1                   14.03         3.754       3.754            26
2                  16.86         4.394        4.394           26
3                  19.88         4.40         5.000          113
4                  22.90         5.60         5.605          100
1986/87     1                   25.92         8.07        8.118           100
2                  28.93         9.80         9.812          100
3                  31.39        10.60        10.688          100
4                  33.85        11.40        11.175           98
1987/88     1                   36.31        12.20       12.152            99
2                  38.76        13.00        13.310          102
3                  39.32        13.80       13.790            99
4                  39.88        14.20       14.169            99
1988/89     1                   40.44        16.70       14.996            89
2                  41.50        19.20        16.353           85
3                    -          21.70       19.182            88
4                    -          22.80       22.768            99
1989/90     1                     -         24.42        24.424           100
2                    -          25.12       25.124           100
3                    -          25.73       25.734           100
4                    -          26.24       26.242           100
1990/91     1                               28.50        27.346           95
2                    -          31.00       28.251            91
3                    -          33.50       30.456            90
4                    -          36.00       32.334            89
1991/92     1                     -         38.50        34.082           88
2                    -          40.50       35.238            87
3                    -           -          36.840
4                                -          37.193
1992/93     1                     -             -        39.201
2                                -          40.480



- 18 -
TABLE 4. Proiect ImDlementation
Key Indicators
Appraisal
Indicators                            Estimate           Revised      Actual
Pumping Station                       30                 90           130
New Pumping Unit                     1                  3             3
Replacing of Pump Units             15                 44            44
Repair of Pump Units                15                 43            43
Provision of Spare Parts             -                               50
Replacement of Circuit Breakers1
for Nasr Canal
Maintenance Facilities
Central Workshop                     3                               2
Regional Workshop                   15                              14
Electric Laboratories                6                               - 2
Staff Houses                        28                              28
Weed Screen and Clearing machine   0                                18
Institutional Improvement
Maintenance Schedule Design
Cost Accounting System Design
Store Inventory System
Establishing a Data Bank
Establishing A Central Control System
I/ Circuit breakers were installed on 13 pumps.
2/1 Consultants submitted their draft report of the study for assessing needs
and rehabilitation of electrical workshops and laboratories, and the
rehabilitation work will be taken under PSRP II, the follow-up project.



- 19 -
TABLE 5. Prolect Cost and Financin.
A.  Proiect Cost
(in million USS)
Arorsisal Estimate                   Actual
LocaL   Foreign Total                     Local   Foreign Total
Items                             Costs   Costs   Costs                     Costs   Costs    Costs
Pumping Station Rehab.             10.0   23.8    33.8                       7.6    37.6    45.2
Workshops                           1.9    0.8      2.7                      2.4      -        2.4
Equipment and Vehicles                -    2.0      2.0                      -        0.9      0.9
Control Syst. Nasr Canal            0.3    1.0      1.3                      0.3      1.6      1.9
Consultants                           -    0.4      0.4                      0.2      0.3     0.5
Contingencies                       8.4   13.4    21.8
Front-End Fee                         -    0.1      0.1                               0.1     0.1
Custom  Duties                                                               5.4      -       5.4
TOTAL                              27.0   41.5    68.5                      15.9    40.5    56.4
B. Loan Allocation
(in milLion USS)
uatIory                                  Ahoraimsat                 Revised          Actual
1. Machinery and Equfpment for               32.600                   38.496         39.174
rehabilitation of pumping stations
and provfsion of staff houses
2. Machinery and Equipment for                3.910                     2.600         .900
Workshops
3. Consultants                                0.475                      0.300        0.301
4. Front End Fee                              0.104                      0.104        0.104
5. Unallocated                                4.411                         -            -
Total                                        41.500                      41.500      40.479
C. Financial   Plan
ApporeaRt                                   Actuat
(in mitlion LE) Cin miLlion USS) (in million LE) (in million USS)
Bank                          34.1           41.5                      90.5              40.5
Goverfment                    22.0            27.0                    32.2               15.9
Total                         56.1           68.5                      122.7             56.4



- 20 -
TA8LE 6. Status of Covenrmt
Brief Description                   Selection
Of Covenants                     Apptication       Compliance         Remarks
Assign not less than twelve
electrical engineers and adequate Exec'. 3.02        Yes
number of technicians operating
the Laboratories.
Establishing a unit (task force)
within the MED to carry day to
day activities during project        Exec. 3.03       Yes
implementation.
Employ consultants not Later
than March 31, 1984, to assist
MED in the Institutional impr-    Exec. 3.04          Yes
ovement component of the Project.
InstalL not later than December
31,1985, of the 11-KY transmis-
ion lines for the supply of ele-
ctric power to Faraskur and          Exec. 3.05      Yes
Gharak pumping Stations.
Design and implement maintenance  Exec. 3.06(a)
schedules by December 31, 1984.                      Yes
Establish and operate, no later,
than March 31. 1985 a cost          Exec. 3.06Cc)  Yes
accounting and an inventory
system.
Furnish to the Bank the pro-         Exec. 3.08
ject's quarterly progress               tb, iii)     Yes
reports.
Furnish to the Bank a certified
copy of the audit report not
Later than six months after the   Othe2r 4.02b, ii)
end of each year.                                    Yes
Prepare, starting with the fiscal
year 1983/84, an annual monitor-  Others 4.03        Yes
ing and evaluation report.
Ensure adequate budgetary alloc-
ation for operation and mainten-  Others 4.04
ance of all MED pumping stations.                             Yes                With some delays
Exec. Execution of Project Article III of Loan Agreement.
LI      Other: Other Covenants, Article IV of Loan Agreement.



- 21 -
TABLE 7. Use of Bank Resources
Stage of         Month/  No. of    Days             Specialization  Perform.           Types of
Prolect CYCtO      Year  Persons in Fietd            Reoresentedc    Status            Problem
Through Aroraisat
Identification    1/80    3         14             E,E, Ec
Preparation      5/81     1        14              Ec
Appraisal        8/81    4         28              E, E, EC
Sumervision
SAN     1.        11/83   2          6              E,E              1
SAN     2.         3/84   2         14              E,E              2                M, P
SAN     3.         7/84    1         3              E                2                D, L, F, M, P, lb
SAN     4.        11/84   1          3              E                2                D, M, P, lb
SAN     5.        10/85   1          1              E                2                D, L, F, M, P, lb
SAN     6.         2/86   1          3              E                1                M, Do
SAN"    7.         8/86   1          9              E                I                N, Do
SAN'    8.        11/87    2        21              E,E              2                N, Do
SAN     9.         4/88   1          3              E               2                 Do
SAN    10.        10/88   1          4              E               2                 Af
SAN"  11.          6/89   2          9              E,E              2                M, P
SANO  12.          9/89   3         28              E, If, Fa       2                 M, P
SANM  13.          6/90   3         12              E, E, MI&E      2                 M, P
SAN'  14.          9/90   1         12              Ec              2                 Do, M, p
SANd  15.          4/91   1        12               E               2                 Do, M, P
SANd 16.          11/91   1        11               E
3/ E: egineer; Ec: ecorwmist; Fa: financial analyst; MiE: monitorirg ard evaluation specialist; Op: snior
operation officer; and If: infomtion tec.
W2/ 1= problem-free; 2 u moderate problems; and 3 = major problems.
LI A: anticipated completion; D: disbursement; Do: development objectives; L: loan condition; Af:
availability of funds; M: managerial; P: procurement; C: consultant; and R: reporting
S/ The nurmber of days recorded portrays the mission time spent on the field for supervision of other
projects as well since it was a combined supervision mission.
I/The supervision was combined with the appraisal of Irrigation and Drainage Pumping Stations Project II.



-22-
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2270 EGT)
(Table 8)
A.    Stations' Specification and Type of Service Received Under the Project
Type     Capac.   Command
Gover-              of       CubicM/    Area    Compi
Pumping Station             norate    Function   Work     Second   (000 td)   Status 1/
I. Lower Egypt
1. El Hares                Alexandria dr       repl           24        65  compl
2. El Max                  Alexandria dr       rep           62.5      300  compl
3. Halk El Gamal           Alexandria dr       rep            20        45  compl
4. El-Deshoudi             Beheira   dr        repl           12        33  compl
5. El-Delengate   ,        Beheira   dr        repl           10        70  compl
6. Truga                   Beheira   dr        repl           32       103  compl
7. EDKU                    Beheira   dr        repl           10        30  Nov. 1992
8. Bouseli                 Beheira   dr        repl           30        50  Nov. 1992
9. Barseek                 Beheira   dr        rep           19.4       50  compl
10. Zarkon                 Beheira   dr         rep            15       35  compl
11. Borg Rashied           Beheira   dr         rep           3.5       12  compl
12. El-Thawra I            Beheira   irr       repl            12      103  Sept. 1992
13. EDKU                   Beheira   irr       repl            10       35  Sept. 1992
14. El Thawra 2            Beheira   irr       repl          15.8       30  Sept. 1992
15. ElThawara3             Beheira   irr       repl           1.3      10.6  compl
16. El Thawra 4            Beheira   irr       repl            11       8.5  compl
17. El Nasr                Beheira   irr       rep            104      300  compl
18. El-Atf'tadditional"    Beheira   irr       repl            50      215  compl
19. El 3100 P.S.           Beheira   irr       rep           16.4       25  compl
20. El Moulk No. 1          Beheira   irr       rep           6.5            comp1
21. El. Moulk No. 2         Beheira   irr       rep           6.5       19  compl
22. El Moulk No. 3          Beheira   irr       rep           3.3           compl
23. Main El Atf.            Baheira   irr       rep            90      215  compl
24. El Nezam                Dakhaliya  dr       repl         10.5       50  compl
25. Irad                    Dakhaliya  dr       repl           24       57  comp1
26. Mataria                Dakhaiiya  dr        repl           16       50  compl
27. El Balamoun            Dakhaliya  irr      repl            12       40  compl
28. Bani Abeed              Dakhaliya  dr       rep            20       53  compl
29. ElGenena                Dakhaliya  dr       rep            15       24  compl
30. Drain 2 Sumer. P.S      Damiet    dr        Const          20       63  compl
31. Faraskour               Damiet    dr        repl           15       20  compl
32. Kafr Saad               Damiet    dr        rep            24      70.6  compl
33. El Mandoura             Damiet    dr        rep          22.5       68  compl
34. North Ismailia         Ismalia    dr        const          18        8  na
35. El Mahssam             Ismalia    dr        rep            14       33  compl
36. Drain 1                Kafr Sheik  dr       repl           10      52.4  compl
37. Drain 2                 Kafr Sheik  dr      rep          22.5       75  Dec. 1992
38. Drain 3                Kafr Sheik  dr       repl         15.6       56  compl



-23-
39. Drain 4                 Kafr sheik  dr      repl          30        66 compl
40. Drain 7                 Kafr Sheik  dr      repl          25        86 compl
41. Drain 8                 Kafr Sheik  dr      repl         37.5       68 compl
42. Drain 11                Kafr Sheik  dr      repl         37.5       75 compl
43. El Zeni                 Kafr Sheik  dr      rep           10        22 compl
44. El Boroulos             Kafr Sheik  dr      repl          6.3       15 compl
45. Fouh                    Kafr Sheik  dr      repl         13.5     18.5 compl
46. Bahr Tera               Kafr Sheik  dr      rep           24        72 compl
47. Hamoul                  Kafr Sheik  dr      rep           15        60  compl
48. Hafeir Shehab           Kafr Sheik  dr      repl          20      68.5  compl
49. Belbeis(Upper)          Qalubiya   dr       repl           7       9.4 compl
50. Abo El-Menaga           Qalubiya  irr      rep            34        68 compl
51. Bahr. El Bakr.          Sharkiya   dr       repl          4.2       65  compl
52. Kassaby                 Sharkiya  'dr       repl         22.5       60  compl
53. Saft                    Sharkiya   dr       repl         37.5      174 compl
54. Hanout                  Sharkiya   dr       rep           10      73.5  compl
55. El Salehia              Sharkiya  irr      rep            1.2       23  compl
56. El Wadi                 Sharkiya  irr      rep            20       200  compl
57. El Shabab               Sherkiya  irr      rep            17        10 compl
UPPER EGYPT
58. El Bayara Ill           Aswan    irr        cons          6.8     10.6  Dec. 1992
59. El Khatara "FL"        Aswan    irr        repl           3.2      1.5  compl
60. Old Bayara              Aswan    lrr       repl           4.5     10.2  compl
61. Gazera Fures            Aswan    irr       repl            1       0.2  compl
62. Balana                  Aswan    irr       rep            20         3 compl
63. Bayara II               Aswan    irr       rep           14.7       39  compl
64. El Tewassa             Aswan    irr        rep            0.5      0.2 compl
65. El Deka                 Aswan    irr       rep            2.7      1.5  compl
66. El Selsela              Aswan    irr       rep           17.1     28.7  compl
67. El Nil                  Aswan    irr       rep             6        13  compl
68. Korta                   Aswan    irr       rep           16.5     19.2  compl
69. Radessia 1              Aswan    irr       rep            3.2      6.5  compl
70. Radessia 2              Aswan    lrr       rep            3.1      6.4  compl
71. Radessia 3              Aswan    irr       rep            0.6      1.5  compl
72. Wady abadi 1            Aswan    irr       rep             3       6.5  compl
73. WAdy Abadi 2            Aswan    irr       rep            2.1      4.5  compl
74. Wady Abadi 3            Aswan    irr       rep             1       2.5  compl
75. Wady abadi 4            Aswan    irr       rep            0.6      0.5  compl
76. Bani Saleh              Bani Soif  irr     repl            7        42 compl
77. El Gharak I             Fayum     dr        repl           3       4.2  compl
78. El Gharak il            Fayum     dr        repl          5.4     22.8  compl
79. El Gharak Ill           Fayum     dr        repl          6.3     16.3  compl
80. El Tagen                Fayum     dr        repl          4.8      6.8  compl
81. El Sheik Fadle          El-Minia  irr      repl           6.1      0.3  compl
82. El Leithe               Geza      lrr      repl          13.8     20.2  Oct. 1992
83. Korimate                Geza      irr      repl           12      21.5 Oct. 1992
84. Bani Hemeil            Sohag    lrr        repl           40        93 compl
85. El Hebeil              Qena       irr      repl           5.4        9 compl
86. El Mahala              Qena       irr      repl           5.1      9.5 compl



-24-
87. El Gherera             Qena       irr      repl            11      19.5  compl
-88. El Khiam               Qena      irr       repl          22.5      3.7  compl
- 89. El Derb                Qena      irr      rep           22.5      27.8  na
.90. El Namassa             Qena      irr       rep             4      43.3  compl
Total                                                      1,472.0   4,203.4
Average                                                       16.4      46.7
Source: Mechanical and Electric Department of the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources.
1/ As the Table indicates, rehabilitation works were completed in 80 stations; the 10 remaining
stations civil works and equipments and spare parts errection are in differrent stages of
progress which are expected to be completed by the designated dates as indicated above.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2270 EGT)
B.     Selected Station Power ConsumDtion and Water Discharge Before and After the Proiect 1/
Before Rehabilitation                  After Rehabilitation
discharge  Power cons. Command         discharge  Power cons. Command
in      Consump.  Area                 in      Consump.   Area
Pumping Station            ('000 m)    ('000 kwh) ('000 fd)        ('000 m)    ('000 kwh) ('000 fd)
1. Main EIAtf                870401   7289.11    215.00             1098735   6952.80    215.00
2. Wady Abbady 1              70287   3491.52       6.50              78440   3008.70       6.50
3. Wady Abbady 2              53480    923.15       6.40              55230    920.05       6.40
4. El Gark 1                   14490    270.21      4.20              15902    266.92       4.20
5. El Gark 2                  32648    783.52      22.80              37277    762.63      22.80
6. El Ghark 3                 37827   1308.46      16.30              39892    903.14      16.30
7. Edku                      350957   3016.71      35.00             380348   3328.05      35.00
8. El Thawra 1               302540   2517.56    103.00              362926   2120.06    103.00
9. El Buroulos                60010    679.90      15.00              54267    631.44      15.00
10. El Balamoun               194320   1587.00      40.00             219399   1436.50     40.00
Total                        1986960  21867.14    464.20             2342416  20330.29    464.20
Average per station           198696   2186.71      46.42             234242   2033.03     46.42
Power Cons(kwh/1000 m)                    11.01                                   8.68
Average power saving per station with the project 2/                            545.97
11 The station selected for this analysis seems to properly represent the project's overall station
as their average command area of (46,420 fd) is in close proximity of the overall 90 station average (46,700 fd).
2/ It has been assumed that: (i) consumption of energy for the situation of without project would be the same as existed before pro-
ject 11,010 kwh for discharge of 1,000 msq. of water), and for the situation of with project would be the same as existed for after
rehabilitation (8680 kwh of energy per 1,000 msq. of water); and (ii) in the situations of both with and without project water
discharge would be 234.242 million msq. per pumping station.



C.    Croooed Area. Production and Gross Economic Revenue in Proiect Area
Total       Total
Cropped  Gross              Net      Net Rev.     Net Rev.
Area 1/   Rev. 2/   Cost   Revenue  With Proj   Without Proj 3/
Crop                        (000 fd)  (LE/fd)   (IE/fd)  (LE/fd)   (LE mill)  (LE mill)
Cotton                        408.54     2730     1877       853     348.48       331.06
Berseem (long)                711.65     1087      836       251     178.62       169.69
Beseam (Short)                407.50      518      516         2       0.81         0.77
Vegetable (Summer)            305.53     3644     1840      1804      551.18      523.63
Vegetable (Winter)            205.65     2872     2253       619      127.30      120.94
Cane (permanent)               13.48     2514     3150      -636      -8.57        -8.15
Wheat                         619.72     1691     1165       526     325.97       309.67
Rice                          414.41     2120     1970       150      62.16        59.05
Maize                         717.53     1538     1179       359     257.59       244.71
Soyabeans                      40.44      828      425       403      16.30        15.48
Total                        3844.80                                 1859.86     1766.86
1/ Derived on the bases of: considering command areas of those pumping stations which were replaced under the project,
assuming these areas to have a crop intensity of 180%, and assuming that the cropping pattern
in these areas remain the same as stated in Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project II APR.
21 Revenues and costs are based on budget analysis prepared for the Egypt Agriculture Strategy report 1992.
3/ Although appraisal assumed 5% saving in production losses on the basis of gross producition revenue, in here
a more conservative approach is taken, saving in production calculated on the basis of net farm revenue.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2270 EGT)
D.     Average saving in Maintenance Cost for a Pumping Station
Without Project               With Project         Saving
Water discharge in 1000 meter cube     234242 2/                     234242 1/ 
Power consumption in 1000 kwh              2579                          2033                  546
O&M Cost LE/kwh in 1992 prices 1/          0.043                         0.008                0.035
Annual O&M Cost/station in LE          111553.30                     17122.892            94430.414
1/ See Table 8B for details.
2/ For calculation of energy consumption, it is was assumed that the water discharge level would be the
same as it was in the situation with the project.
3/ Estimated on the bases of: (i) pump's annual operating time of 3,000 hours (derived on the basis of the data collected from
10 pumping stations); (ii) annual maintenance cost of US$0.009 and US$0.002 per kwh for the situation with and
without project respectively in constant 1 981 prices (these figures derived from imperical results as presented in the
appraisal report in constant USS 1 981; (iii) using United Value Manufacture Index for conversion of O&M cost from
from 1981 to 1992 values; and (iv) exchange rate US$1 - LE 3.31.



E.      Proiect Cost and Benefits
(LE mil)
Investment Cost    Benefit in Nominal Value 1/  Total Benefit.  Net
Inflation  Nominal Constant Crop    Saving   Saving   in constant   Benefit
Year       Index   Value    Value    Pro. 21   Ener. 3/  Main. 4/   Value     Stream 5/
1984           27    0.734      2.72        -         -        -           -          -3
1985           32    4.067    12.71         -         -        -           -         -13
1986           36    8.194    22.76         -              -         -               -23
1987           42    7.092     16.89        -         -        -           -         -17
1988           52    11.177    21.49        -         -        -           -         -21
1966           60   27.161     45.27      35.6      1.6       1.7       64.8          20
1990           72   12.664    17.59       35.6      1.6       1.7       54.0          36
1991           87   26.613    30.59       39.6      1.7       1.9       49.6          19
1992          100      5.58     5.58      59.4      2.6       2.8       64.8          59
1993            -        -         -      75.2      3.3       3.6       82.1          82                            1
1994            -        -         -      93.0      4.1       4.4      101.5         101                           K)
1995            -        -         -      93.0      4.1       4.4      101.5         101
1996            -        -         -      93.0      4.1       4.4      101.5         101
1997            -        -         -      93.0      4.1       4.4      101.5         101
1998            -        -         -      93.0      4.1       4.4      101.5         101
1999            -        -         -      57.4      2.5       2.7       62.6          63
2000            -         -        -      51.4      2.3       2.4       56.1          56
2001            -        -         -      17.8      0.8       0.8       19.4          19
Economic Rate of Return 41                              %36.03
11 Although rehabilitation work on some stations was completed before 1988, benefits were conservatively assumed to begin
from that year onward.
2/ Calculated on the basis of data presented in Table 8C.
3/ Calculated on the basis of realized energy saving as specified in Table 8B, and on the basis of economic price of
of LE 0.16/kwh.
4/ Calculated on the basis of data presented in Table 8D.
5/ Appraisal estimated ERR to be 44% (based on benefits results obtained elsewhere and theoretical pump's energy con-
sumption, and claiming benefits from both replacement and repair works); however, the ERR calculated above
was based on actual and empirical data presented in Tables 8A through 8D, and claimed benefits only from
47 pumping stations which were replaced under the project; OCC was 13.5%.






:'   !    .   / ~~ f   i ~   0; ,:    r - F     .
'  -           L               SBAH/1 r/rA A O
ALEXANDaIA             ; aadku                                                                                                                      P 7 So, he  , ot h   S a  a teaORT SAID
5555055~~ -h 'h  pas<t a, Th  tsat  Bas  as  thA Iseh  aL Ieac   CophAt,ea , hh
ARAB  EPUBICA          FEGP                                                                                           -SA
Y,  TR u C, A   DAM               LA             MANSURA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AdD
~~~~~~~~oe Hg of                                        / ~           ~             i                   ARB
PmngstahmsET proose  fc  eeaR O  pom   sros-Rt5
Qh real n secui ehor hesT,na se  htsa  osaFRkisops                                            0 heTotrensu <l 
at~~LOE  EGPTeL                                                                                                                                                                          D
t.t  nO  ro s                            .n                r T
_~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~1  DY                          SS              A S                         S



