Document of
The World Banke
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3513-EGI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$41.5 MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 7, 1983
Tbis document has a restricted distribuwtn and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their oficlal duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Official Foreign Exchange Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)  - US$1.43
1 US Dollar (US$)       =  LE 0.70
Rate for Commercial Bank Transactions
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)   US$1.22
1 US Dollar (US$)      = LE 0.82
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
Abbreviations
MED     - Mechanical and Electrical Department,
Ministry of Irrigation
USAID   - United States Agency for
International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:               US$41.5 million equivalent, including capitalized front
end fee
Terms:                20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Project               The project would provide financing for 30 irrigation
Description:          and drainage pumping stations serving about 1.2 million
feddans (1 feddan = 0.42 hectares) in Upper and Lower
Egypt. It would consist of: (a) construction of 1 new
pumping station, replacement of the pump units in a
further 14, and provision of spare parts for the
rehabilitation of an additional 15; (b) provision of 3
central and 15 regional workshops, the establishment of 6
electrical laboratories, and staff housing; (c) provision
of spare parts for emergency repair of pumping stations
other than those under (a) above; and (d) a central
control system for the Nasr Canal. In addition,
technical assistance would be provided for the design and
establishment of maintenance, accounting, and store
inventory systems in the Mechanical and Electrical
Department (MED) of the Ministry of Irrigation.
Benefits & Risks:    By increasing the reliability and efficiency of
irrigation and drainage facilities, the project would
benefit the 490,000 farm families (about 2.7 million
people) who live in the project area, about 50 percent of
whom have incomes below the poverty level; it would also
result in substantial savings for the government in
operation and maintenance costs. By keeping the water
table at low levels and by increasing safety at the
pumping stations, the project will improve the
environment.  There are no environmental risks.  The main
risks are delays in implementation, and inadequate
maintenance of the pumping stations and the irrigation
and drainage systems. These risks would be minimized by
provision of (i) a detailed implementation schedule; (ii)
workshops and electrical laboratories; and (iii)
technical assistance to MED for establishment of an
effective maintenance program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Costs:
US$ million
Local   Foreign   Total
Pumping Station Rehab.          10.0       23.8    33.8
Workshops                        1.9        0.8      2.7
Equipment & Vehicles              -         2.0      2.0
Nasr Canal Control System        0.3        1.0      1.3
Consultants                       -         0.4      0.4
Total Base Cost                 12.2       28.0    40.2
Phys. Contingencies              1.9        4.1      6.0
Price Contingencies              6.5        9.3    15.8
Custom Duties                    6.4         -       6.4
Total Project Cost              27.0       41.4    68.4
Front End Fee on Bank Loan       -          0.1      0.1
Total Financing Required        27.0       41.5    68.5
Financing Plan:
US$ million
Local   Foreign   Total
Bank                         -      41.5       41.5
Government                  27.0       -       27.0
Total                       27.0    41.5       68.5
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
Bank Fiscal Year             FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
Annual                        2.8      8.4    11.7    11.0       6.0      1.6
Cumulative                    2.8    11.2    22.9    33.9    39.9    41.5
Rate of Return:       40 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 3774-EGT dated April 7, 1983



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$41.5 million to finance
the foreign exchange cost of an Irrigation Pumping Stations Rehabilitation
project. The proposed loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years
of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY.!
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM80-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. This section updates the economic situation and outlook
discussed in that report; revised country data sheets and macroeconomic
accounts are presented in Annex I. An economic mission visited Egypt in
January 1983 and its report is currently being prepared.
Background
3.       The last ten years have been a period of rapid growth for the
Egyptian economy. Following an extended period of inward-looking and
centralized economic policies, the late President Sadat in 1974 announced a
new "Open Door" policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of
development by liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic
private investment. Parallel to the changes in economic strategy, there was
progress towards peace which brought with it expectations of rapid economic
expansion and greater prosperity.
4.       Throughout the second half of the 1970s, external circumstances and
domestic developments were on the whole favorable to the economy. The
emergence of a strong petroleum sector with a substantial exportable surplus,
large flows of workers' remittances, the successful reopening of the Suez
Canal and the growth of the tourism industry, complemented by substantial
long-term capital inflows, allowed Egypt to reduce considerably the stringent
resource shortages of the early 1970s. Egypt entered the 1980s with a much
stronger resource base and a somewhat smaller current account deficit; but the
needs of the rapidly growing population remain immense. At present, 43
million people have only about 39,000 km2 of usable land. While Egypt's
population has doubled in the last three decades, the cultivated area
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Vocational Training Project (P-3506-EGT) dated March 30, 1983.



has increased by less than 5%. Moreover, the physical and social
infrastructure of the country has suffered from long years of insufficient
investment, inadequate maintenance and the effects of war. Low productivity
and underemployment affect many parts of the economy and the consumption
capacity of the poor has improved only marginally. Maintaining rapid growth
will require sustained efforts aimed at overcoming these constraints. In
particular, continued progress depends crucially on: (i) the mobilization of
large national and foreign resources to finance high levels of investment;
(ii) substantial increases in the productivity of capital and labor based on
institutional reforms and effective investment planning; and (iii) an
equitable distribution of the sacrifices and benefits associated with
economic growth.
5.       After taking office in October of 1981, President Mubarak expressed
his firm intention to accord top priority to economic issues. The outward-
looking "Open Door" strategy favorable to foreign investment will be
maintained. The process of liberalization is to be complemented, however,
by increased emphasis on population and human resource planning, the
rationalization of consumption with a view to ensuring greater social equity,
and a more comprehensive process of investment planning designed to economize
resources and channel a greater share of investment into the productive
sectors in order to foster increased productivity and employment.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Recent economic trends may be separated into two successive phases
with quite different characteristics: (i) a period of unprecedented resource
growth starting in 1975 and peaking in 1979/80, and (ii) starting in the
summer of 1981, a period of re-emerging resource shortages triggered by the
decline in oil prices and an apparent slowdown in workers' remittances.
7.       From 1975 to 1980 inclusive, overall GDP growth averaged about 10%
in constant (1980/81) prices.l/ This very high growth rate reflects the
emergence of the petroleum sector, and rapid growth in industry,
transportation, trade, finance and Suez Canal traffic. Agricultural growth
remained very modest at around 2.2%, but overall performance in agriculture
improved compared to the 1965-1975 period when growth had averaged only 1.5%
per year. Egypt's severe land constraint makes rapid agricultural growth a
very difficult task.
8.       Production of crude petroleum in 1980 averaged close to 600,000
barrels per day (30 million tons a year 2/), compared to 220,000 b/d in 1975,
with the Egyptian share of exports (net of partner companies' shares) reaching
240,000 b/d by the end of 1980. This very rapid growth in output coincided
with sharp rises in spot prices on the world market, leading to large
increases in export revenues, from US$289 million in 1975 to US$4.4 billion in
1980/81.
1/ In 1980 the Government of Egypt changed its fiscal year from January-
December to July-June, with a consequent change in data series.
2/ One ton = 7.2 barrels.



9.       During the same period, workers' remittances also grew at unprece-
dented rates, reaching US$2.7 billion in 1980, compared to US$366 million in
1975. Moreover, Suez Canal earnings and tourism revenues reached US$663
million and US$775 million respectively, compared to US$85 million and US$322
million in 1975. As a result, and despite large increases in imports (US$8.1
billion in 1980 compared to US$4.6 billion in 1975), the current account
deficit narrowed to less than 7.4% of GDP (US$1.6 billion) in 1980, compared
to 18.8% in 1975.
10.      While the balance of payments improved steadily during this period,
the fiscal situation remained relatively more precarious and showed greater
fluctuations. The overall public sector resource gap which was 29% of GDP in
1975, narrowed to 17% in 1977, widened to 27% in 1979, before declining again
to 18% in 1980/81. At the same time, inflation emerged as a principal policy
concern. Prior to 1975, Egypt was essentially a fixed price economy, and
resource allocation and investment decisions were centrally determined.
Moreover, international and domestic inflation was low, so that while relative
prices may have been out of line with world prices, price rigidity did not
create undue macroeconomic imbalance. The situation has since changed
radically. The opening of the economy coincided with an acceleration in
world inflation. At the same time, labor migration and the rapid expansion
of the economy led to supply problems in several key sectors, such as
construction and related activities, and agriculture. Effective demand,
especially for consumer goods, also rose sharply following the income gains
that resulted from the growth of tourism, remittances and other receipts. All
these factors have exerted sharp upward pressure on domestic prices. In a
country unaccustomed to inflation and flexible prices, and where there are no
easily functioning mechanisms for cost-of-living adjustments in wages and
salaries, the required price changes appeared large and inequitable, given the
substantial effect they would have on lower income groups. In the
uncontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did in fact surge upward.
However, in the controlled sector, which still dominates the economy, although
some small price increases were allowed for, major adjustments could not be
achieved. Therefore, the gap between world prices and domestic selling prices
of key traded goods continuously increased, leading to large implicit and
explicit subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted system of
relative prices and incentives.
11.      Despite the persistence of structural problems relating to income
distribution and resource allocation, the growth achieved by the economy in
the 1975-1980 period was very impressive. To a large extent, however, it
was dependent on factors over which Egypt does not have full or even
partial control. In the summer of 1981 some of the key variables that had
shown steady growth since 1975 suddenly began to reverse. First, oil prices
started to decline. The premium Suez Blend Crude declined from the
US$40/barrel peak reached in the spring of 1981 to around US$32 by March of
1982 and US$27 by early 1983. The heavier crudes also declined in price:
compared to fiscal year 1980/81, the average barrel exported showed a 10.5%
decline in value for fiscal year 1981/82. Almost simultaneously with the
decline in oil export prices, workers' remittances decreased below the levels
achieved in 1980/81. Finally, Suez Canal revenues that had been expected to



-4-
increase substantially after the enlargement of the Canal, failed to show
significant growth, reflecting excess supply conditions on the international
oil market as well as the effect of the worldwide recession on the volume of
trade.
12.      These developments have led to a deterioration of the balance of
payments, a widening of the public sector resource gap and an accelerating
pace of monetary expansion. The impact of the export shortfall on the current
account deficit was to some extent contained because of the decline in prices
for food imports, the reduction in non-food imports through tighter import
restrictions, and a cutback in investment spending. Nevertheless, the current
account deficit widened from US$2.3 billion in 1980/81 to US$3.3 billion in
1981/82. The bulk of this deficit was covered by medium- and long-term
capital inflows, although the deterioration in the overall balance has
required some recourse to short-term borrowing. Similar difficulties are
affecting the fiscal situation. The overall public sector resource gap
widened to 23% of GDP in 1981/82 (from 18% in 1980/81). As a result, there
has been a large increase in domestic bank financing of the budget, from about
LE 450 million in 1980/81 to about LE 2.2 billion in 1981/82. Accompanied by
rapid expansion of credit to the private sector, this financing has led to a
marked acceleration in monetary growth, with money supply (excluding foreign
currency deposits) increasing at a rate close to 40% per annum, thus creating
additional inflationary pressures.
13.      So far, the primary policy response to the deteriorating trend has
been a tightening of imports and credit, and a slowdown in investment
spending. Largely because of these short-term measures, the deteriorating
trend in the balance of payments has stabilized, and the current account
deficit is expected to be somewhat lower in fiscal year 1982/83 than in the
preceding year. The budget deficit is, however, expected to remain large at
about 20% of GDP. Moreover, the tight credit and import controls are now
beginning to affect the pace of economic activity and growth.
14.      While the above situation is causing concern and requires immediate
policy measures, to some extent its source can be found in the recession
affecting the world economy. The Egyptian economy was also affected by
internal and external political events that increased the degree of
uncertainty and slowed down the flow of remittances and private capital
inflows. With the full recovery of the Sinai completed in April 1982 and the
consolidation of the internal political climate, and given adequate incentive
and exchange rate policies, conditions could again be favorable for larger
remittances, tourism revenues and an expansion of foreign private investment.
This, together with some improvement in Suez Canal traffic, could help
strengthen the balance of payments and government finances. Nonetheless,
while such an improvement is possible, the long-run structural problems remain
a major challenge which the government needs to address if the country is to
sustain rapid economic growth and achieve greater well being for its people.



-5-
Development Potential and Constraints
15.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled population, an agricultural potential not yet fully developed, varied
raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a key geographical
location. Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The gradual need to substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign aid and net factor income decline in
relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a number of areas, including
physical infrastructure. The expansion of new capacities has been slowed by
administrative inefficiency, inadequate financial resources and weakness
in national coordination and sector programming. Managerial effectiveness
in public enterprises and financial incentives for production are often
inadequate. Higher levels of economic activity together with labor
emigration have led to shortages in critical professional and technical
skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still reflect a non-technical bias
and their quality needs to be upgraded.
16.      In addition, the rapid economic growth of recent years has been based
on the performance of sectors with only weak linkages to agriculture, industry
and services where the bulk of the labor force is occupied. For example, the
Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for about 22% of GDP but
only 1% of total employment. While tourism and remittances directly touch the
lives of a much greater number of people, they cannot provide a solid basis
for employment expansion and technological development. Moreover, the
long-term real growth potential for receipts from petroleum, Suez and
remittances is uncertain. The challenge for Egypt lies in the necessity of
channeling a good part of the surpluses and revenues derived from these
sources into productive investment in agriculture, industry and social
infrastructure in order to lay the foundations for self-sustaining growth and
employment expansion in the domestic economy.
17.      Another key issue is population.  At an estimated 43 million, Egypt's
population is already very large for its limited usable land area, with an
average density exceeding 1100 per km2, higher than that of Bangladesh or
Indonesia. Recent census results show that the population has continued to
grow rapidly adding over one million people every year. Moreover, almost half
of this increase is concentrated in the Greater Cairo area. This continues to
create pressures on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates
the employment problem in the longer run. Although the government has placed
a renewed emphasis on the importance of the population problem, it will take
considerable time to develop and implement measures and for significant
results to be achieved.
18.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing disparity
in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of absolute
poverty are no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar income levels,
continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective taxation of high
income groups could lead to serious distortions.



- 6 -
19.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural con-
straints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to: (i) increase the
efficiency of the administration through organizational and procedural
modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii) increase
real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of resources and
fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of prices as meaningful
indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a long-term export promotion
policy, including appropriate management of incentives and real effective
exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to upgrade the
country's physical infrastructure; and finally (vi) intensify efforts to
develop a coherent and effective population policy. There is an ongoing
dialogue between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank on all these important
issues. They have also been the focus of discussions among the members of the
Consultative Group for Egypt. Much work remains to be done to formulate
practical policy packages that would help Egypt overcome these constraints in
a gradual yet effective manner. Particular consideration is being given by
the government and the Bank to the social implications of alternative
strategies in the full realization that progress can only last if it ensures
broad-based participation in the process of economic growth.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
20.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed in 1982/83 is estimated at about US$15.5 billion (57% of GDP).
Bilateral loans comprised about 61% of the debt outstanding while the shares
of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were about 22% and 10%,
respectively, with the remainder being held by financial institutions. Major
creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt,
followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 7% of the total disbursed debt. Despite the
sharp increase in the level of external debt during the last decade--from
US$2.2 billion at end-1973 to the estimated US$15.5 billion in 1982/83--the
debt service ratio declined from 33% in 1973 to 15% in 1979 and rose to 21% in
1981/82.
21.      External financing requirements are likely to remain sizeable in the
medium term given Egypt's immense development needs and the more moderate
growth of foreign exchange earnings projected. At the same time, in view of
the adverse global aid outlook, Egypt may have to rely more on conventional
finance than in the past and at significantly higher interest rates. As a
result, the debt service ratio is projected to rise over the next five years
but should remain manageable in the 20-25% range. Over the longer term, the
balance of payments and debt servicing capacity will depend crucially on
domestic trade and export promotion policies and on developments in the oil
sector. With continued exploitation of its national resources and improved
economic management, Egypt should be able to maintain its creditworthiness
throughout the period.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
22.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's sixty-fifth lending
operation to Egypt, and would bring Bank and IDA commitments to $2,703.2
million.2/ Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted in the
development of the agriculture, industry, power and energy, water supply,
population, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education
sectors. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of
March 31, 1983 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other donors.
Its strategy involves entry into a wide spectrum of sectors in order to
provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited resources but,
equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral agencies,
and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action on a coherent
framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle the
substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of technical
assistance, not only for sound execution of specific projects but for
developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement
future policies and investment programs. The Bank's deliberate multisectoral
intervention has been differentiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at
which the Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to address these
issues and implement the programs.
24.      Industry, which in the past has received the largest portion of Bank
resources and significant attention, illustrates the nature and scope of the
Bank's intervention. The government looks upon rapid industrialization as a
means to stimulate growth of the economy, create productive employment, cater
to basic consumer needs, and generate an "export surplus". Efforts under Bank
financed projects have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving
capacity utilization (two import loans/credit) and increasing production
capacity and supply of essential commodities in resource-based industries
(cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer projects). The more
fundamental effort has been directed at introducing policy and structural
improvements. Towards this end, the Bank has financed six subsector studies
in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food processing, metallurgy,
and engineering industries, in order to assist the government in formulating a
package of policy and investment proposals, which are embodied in our
projects. To complement these efforts the Bank has carried out a study on
small-scale industries. The Bank has also assisted the government in a
comprehensive study of the construction/ contracting industry (one of the
major bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today). The Bank proposes to
support the government's efforts in carrying out the recommendations of these
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the Vocational Training Project (P-3506-EGT) dated
March 30, 1983.
2/ This includes the Vocational Training Project (US$38 million) which is
scheduled to be presented to the Board this fiscal year.



studies. Finally, the Bank has produced with the government a study on "Trade
Strategy and Investment Planning" which focuses on the sectoral allocation and
timing of Egypt's investment program in the context of a viable foreign trade
strategy.
25.      The illustrative sketch provided above of the Bank's intervention in
one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach that it has adopted
in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the Egyptian economy. It is a
role that is in harmony not only with the Egyptian Government's wishes but is
welcomed by the various bilateral and multilateral donors as an appropriate
function for the Bank as the Chairman of the Consultative Group. Preparation
of projects for future lending follows this strategy, and the pipeline
includes projects in vocational training, highway maintenance, gas
development, urban development, water supply, agriculture (including
drainage), development finance and industry.
26.      Bank Group disbursements in FY82 represented 5% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed were about 4% and 3%, respectively, as of June 30,
1982. In FY85, the Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and
disbursed (excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 6.0% and
3.1%, respectively. It is estimated that in FY85, debt service payments due
to the Bank and IDA will represent about 4.6% and 0.2%, respectively, of
service payments due on Egypt's external debt. Reflecting the increased level
of commitments and delays in the initiation of some of the projects, loan
disbursements slowed down in FY82. (In FY82 the disbursement percentage rate
was 16.5%; the EMENA Regional average was 19.3%.) The Egyptian Government has
recently placed a high priority on improving overall project implementation
and is introducing improved monitoring practices. As project execution
accelerates, loan disbursements should improve gradually.
27.      IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total about
US$86 million and include a ceramics project, a ready-made garment project, a
project for an agricultural complex primarily for sugar beet, a poultry
project, a fish farming project, a building material project, and a tourism
project. IFC is discussing several other private sector and joint venture
projects. A summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Setting
28.      Agriculture is the largest sector of the Egyptian economy, currently
accounting for about 20% of GDP and 40% of total employment. Despite the
country's large land area, only 3% (6.5 million feddans 1/) of the land is
cultivable; most of the remaining land is desert. In contrast to the strong
performance in the previous two decades, agriculture growth in the 1970s
averaged only about 2% per annum. Stimulated by the growth in population
1/ One feddan equals 0.42 hectares.



and national incomes, demand for agriculture products has grown rapidly; and
with the decline in domestic production, imports of agriculture goods have
surged. In 1970 the overall trade balance for the agriculture sector
registered a surplus of US$300 million; in 1977 it showed a deficit of US$800
million; and in 1980/81, the deficit climbed to US$2.7 billion.
29.      Cropping patterns in Egypt are determined by a mix of factors,
including commodity prices, government quota requirements, producer
preferences, soil and climate limitations, and the degree of farmer
commercialization. Wheat and berseem (an Egyptian clover) are the principal
winter crops; in summer, cotton and rice are the important cash crops, while
maize and sorghum are the major subsistence crops. The main instrument of
government policy has been price intervention in the major crops, both
directly, through the setting of procurement prices, and indirectly, through
wholesale price controls. The government has also relied on large-scale food
commodity imports to contain demand pressures. These policies have adversely
affected agriculture production. They have distorted cropping patterns,
leading to the increased production of fodder for livestock at the expense of
more economically efficient food crops. In addition, the very modest
government investment in the sector and the sharply depressed farm incomes
have permitted little modernization and expansion.
30.      Although the agricultural land is highly productive and intensely
cropped, producing yields considerably above world averages, the boundaries of
the developed land place severe limits on the growth of agricultural output.
The population density to arable land is one of the highest in the world, and
the average size of holdings is extremely small. The additional water
resulting from the completion of the Aswan High Dam permitted the reclamation
from the desert of additional land, but only a third of these lands are
currently productive. At the same time, rapid urbanization has cut deeply
into old agricultural land, more than offsetting new areas of production.
31.      One of the government's priority objectives is to increase
agriculture output to help reduce the cost of food imports. If the trade
losses in agriculture continue unchecked, they could impose a serious burden
on the balance of payments. With the assistance of bilateral and multilateral
development agencies, the government is gradually revising its policies and
formulating programs aimed at increasing agricultural productivity and
production.
Primary Problems and Opportunities
32.      Institutional Complexities.  One of the most complex and difficult
problems in developing Egypt's agriculture is the overlapping function of the
entities involved in the sector. Three ministries are primarily responsible
for agriculture (Agriculture, Irrigation, and Land Reclamation) and they have
a plethora of authorities, organizations, and companies. There is little
coordination among them and their planning and selection of investment
priorities is weak. While a substantive institutional reform would pave the
way to improve sector performance, for the time being the government considers



- 10 -
such a move too politically sensitive. Instead, it has opted for selected
changes and improved efficiency in the various entities. It is in this
context that the Bank and outside donors are working with the government to
seek ways to improve and strengthen institutional management and supervision.
33.      Price Controls.  As indicated above, the government-controlled system
of procurement and pricing has been a disincentive to farm production. The
government recognizes this problem and has recently raised prices for the
basic crops. While substantial, these price increases do not equal the growth
of prices and incomes in the uncontrolled agriculture sector and in other
parts of the economy. The government's stated objective, however, is to make
further progress in bringing farm-gate prices to acceptable levels in order to
foster increased agricultural production.
34.      Operational Research and Extension.  Until relatively recently Egypt
has not had much contact with international crop research. Consequently, even
though the conditions are suitable for high-yielding variety technology, there
has been little experience in the country with improved varieties. It has now
started to strengthen and integrate the extension and research services.
There appear to be technology packages for key crops (such as the major
cereals) which have tremendous growth potential if they could be widely
disseminated and reinforced by price adjustments.
35.      Drainage and Water Management. The increased availability of water
after the completion of the High Dam led to extensive over-irrigation, which
resulted in high water tables and increased salinity. The resulting
deterioration in soil conditions prohibited or reduced crop production
throughout Egypt, and by the mid-1970s it was estimated that about 35% of the
cultivable land was suffering from salinity problems and over 90% was
adversely affected by the water table. For over a decade the Bank has been
working closely with the government on a national program to provide
sub-surface drainage. The government is now, with outside assistance,
conducting more sophisticated monitoring programs and gathering additional
data in order to improve further the effectiveness of the program.
36.      Related to the large-scale excessive use of water are problems of
operating and adequately maintaining the country's extensive irrigation
systems. Existing irrigation structures and equipment need to be
rehabilitated and replaced. There is also evidence that the lack of water
control in the on-farm distribution system is already constraining
agricultural yields; and there are major opportunities for increasing
production and reducing costs by modernizing water delivery systems and
improving water management at the farm level.
37.      The Nile command area is served by a network of 30,000 km of canals
and irrigation channels. Currently there are about 460 pumping stations in
the country servicing irrigation by regulating the discharge and water levels
in irrigation canals. In addition, there are about 360 pump units used for
pumping groundwater from wells. The proposed project will finance urgent
repairs and establish improved maintenance for these pumping stations and
units.



Bank Group Role
38.      Until the mid-1970s Bank Group lending to Egyptian agriculture was
concentrated on the drainage of old lands to reduce the widespread problems of
waterlogging and salinity. The OED audit of the first drainage project (Cr.
181-EGT) supported the program. It cited promising results based on existing
studies, but also pointed out the need for more information to quantify more
precisely the impact of field drainage in crop production. The audit also
recommended improved design standards and quality control. The government's
Drainage Authority and Drainage Research Institute is undertaking additional
work, and the information gathered on the effectiveness of the drainage
program will be useful in the design of future projects.
39.      Bank lending has supported agriculture development in the old lands.
The Agriculture Development Project (Cr. 83.0-EGT) is helping improve
agriculture technology through the purchase of agricultural machinery and
through extension training in two governorates. The Fruit and Vegetables
Project (Ln. 1276-T-EGT) was designed primarily to develop improved vegetable
seeds, as well as to provide credit to fruit and vegetable processors and
exporters in order to help support the rapid production increases of these
crops. The project's credit component has been fully committed, and after a
very uncertain period, progress is finally being made to improve the
operations of the seed farm and to repair damaged sections of the Nasr Canal
which carries water into West Nubariya. Also in support of the dynamic growth
points in the sector, the First Agroindustries Project (Cr. 988-EGT) has
financed a large number of small- and medium-sized agroindustries.
Reflecting a strong nationwide demand for funds, the project's credit
component has been committed relatively quickly. The recently approved Second
Agroindustries Project would provide assistance to introduce more sectoral
planning into credit support for agroindustries.
40.      The New Lands Development Project (Cr. 1083-EGT) initiated Bank
lending in land reclamation. The project is helping to introduce substantial
improvements in the pattern and approach to the development of new lands.
41.      In another subsector, the Fish Farming Development Project
(Cr. llll-EGT) is assisting the development of inland water fisheries, which
account for more than 75% of the country's fish production. If adequate
institutions can be built, fish production could become an important source of
animal protein, and it has the advantage of not using scarce agricultural land.
42.      A central institutional weakness in the sector has been inadequate
planning and project preparation. The Bank's recent Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 1162-EGT) is helping to develop units within the agriculture
ministries to undertake planning, feasibility, and engineering studies related
to agriculture projects. The Bank is also the executing agency for a
UNDP-financed project which has been developing information and proposals for
the national use and development of the Nile waters.
43.      In the broader context of the Bank's economic policy work and
discussion, the Bank's Domestic Resource Mobilization Study (Report No.
3123-EGT of December 10, 1980) highlights the importance of agriculture
pricing. This analytical work was further developed and expanded in the trade



- 12 -
strategy and investment planning study (para. 24). This work should be
helpful to the government in reviewing its agricultural strategy, including
pricing policies.
44.      The Bank proposes to continue to build on its recent initiatives,
taking advantage of targets of opportunity to help address to the extent
possible the principal problems identified above. Future projects will
continue to emphasize institutional development, within the context of the
project, and additional efforts will be made to explore opportunities for
regional projects to ease the administrative burden at the center and to tap
resources at the governorate level.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
45.      The project originated from the Irrigation Subsector Review (Report
No. 3371-EGT dated March 5, 1981) which recommended that priority be given to
the rehabilitation of aging pumping stations serving irrigation and drainage.
It was identified in March 1981 and prepared by a joint Bank/FAO-CP mission in
June 1981. Appraisal took place in September/October 1981. Project technical
discussions and negotiations were held in Washington from March 7 - 11, 1983;
negotiations were delayed while the government reviewed the opportunities for
using cofinancing from official sources. The Egyptian delegation was led by
Mr. Samir Koraiem, Senior Undersecretary in the Ministry of Investment and
International Cooperation. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3774-EGT dated April
7, 1983) is being distributed separately. The main features of the project
are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
46.      The two main objectives of the project are:
(a) to prevent possible crop damage and decline in crop yields from
irrigation/drainage pump failure by restoring to good working
condition 30 pumping stations, and to reduce the O&M costs of
these stations; and
(b) to strengthen the institution responsible for maintaining and
operating pumping stations in Egypt.
47.      The project would cover an area of about 1,045,000 feddans in Lower
Egypt and about 99,000 feddans in Upper Egypt serviced by the 30 pumping
stations to be rehabilitated (see map).   In addition, approximately 40,000
feddans of irrigated land would be incorporated in the service area of four
stations as a result of the project, bringing the total area covered by the
project to around 1.2 million feddans, about a fifth of the total cultivated
area in Egypt. The estimated rural population of the project area is about
2.7 million.
48.      The project would consist of the following components:



- 13 -
(a) construction of 1 new pumping station, replacement of pump units
and other equipment in a further 14 stations, and provision of
spare parts for the rehabilitation of an additional 15 stations;
(b) provision of 3 central and 15 regional workshops, the
establishment of 6 electrical laboratories, and staff housing
for workshop technicians and pump operators;
(c) provision of spare parts and other equipment for emergency
repair of pumping stations outside the project area, vehicles,
mobile cranes, forklifts, and a central control system for the
five successive pumping stations of the Nasr Canal; and
(d) provision of technical assistance to design a pump maintenance
system, to establish separate project accounts and a cost
accounting system, and to design and establish a store inventory
control system.
Rehabilitation of the Pumping Stations
49.      Under the first phase (up to 1987) of a plan prepared by the Ministry
of Irrigation to cover pump rehabilitation needs in Egypt over the next 2
decades, 67 pumping stations are scheduled for rehabilitation and
reconstruction. Of these, 37 (all in Upper Egypt) are being rehabilitated
through a USAID-financed project; the remaining 30 (19 for irrigation, 9 for
drainage and 2 for both irrigation and drainage) would be covered by this
project.
50.      A number of factors contribute to the need for rehabilitation: age
(the average age of the stations at the time of rehabilitation would be 26.4
years), poor quality of the original machinery, lack of spare parts,
inappropriate maintenance, excessive hours of operation and the presence of
corrosive water. Most of the pumping stations have inoperative units and are
barely able to meet pumping demands. There is little or no recording and
monitoring equipment, and some stations have inadequate power supply. These
factors have already resulted in decreased efficiency and increased
maintenance costs; in the near future they could result in the inability of
the pump units to meet demand, with possibly serious effects on the crops.
51.      The station at Bayara needs complete reconstruction due to structural
damage to the existing building, and 14 more need replacement of the entire
pump units. The remaining 15 stations require general repair to prolong the
life of the units and to restore them as much as possible to their original
efficiency and reliability. The rehabilitation of all 30 pumping stations
would include the repair or replacement of gates, hoists and trashracks. In
stations where new pump units would be installed, instruments for improving
the monitoring of operations would be included, as well as spare parts to the
value of about 15% of the new units. The capacity of five of the pumping
stations would be increased to meet additional demand, either from an increase
in the area served or from increased rice cultivation. The government has
agreed to provide, by December 31, 1985, 26 km of new ll-KV transmission lines
to ensure adequate power supply to 4 drainage stations where supply is
currently unreliable (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).



- 14 -
Repair Facilities
52.      Three fully equipped central workshops would be provided under the
project, which, in conjunction with four already existing, would provide
maintenance for all the pumping plants (over 900 units) run by the Ministry of
Irrigation. In addition, 15 fully equipped regional workshops would be added
to those already existing to provide routine site repairs and maintenance.
New buildings would be required for 2 of the central and 12 of the regional
workshops, and housing for engineers and mechanics would be constructed at the
workshop sites.
53.      To provide maintenance of electrical equipment the project would
finance procurement of instruments for the six electrical laboratories, one in
each directorate of the Ministry's Mechanical and Engineering Department
(MED). Each laboratory would be responsible for testing, calibration and
repair of the electrical equipment of all the pumping stations of the
directorate. MED would recruit electrical engineers and other technicians to
staff the six new laboratories (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
Equipment and Spare Parts
54.      In addition to the spare parts for the 30 pumping stations to be
rehabilitated, the project would provide financing for spare parts and other
equipment for repairing stations outside the project area on an emergency
basis. Other equipment to be provided includes vehicles and motorcycles for
engineers, mechanics and pump operators; trucks for transporting spare parts;
and mobile cranes and forklifts for handling heavy equipment.
Central Control System for the Nasr Canal
55.      The Nasr Canal will ultimately provide irrigation to an area of about
270,000 feddans in the West Nubariya region, including the 24,000 feddans of
the New Land Development Project financed by the Bank (Credit 1083-EGT).
There will be five successive pumping stations on the canal, of which three
are operating and the remaining two are under construction and are expected to
be completed by the end of 1983. Under the proposed project a central control
system would be installed to provide the principal engineer with continuous
information on pump operation and water level at the five pumping stations.
The stations would be connected to the center by a telephone line; because of
the hazard of sandstorms, this line and the indicator cables would be laid
underground.
Technical Assistance
56.      The project would finance 40 man months of consultants' services to
MED, as follows:
(a) 12 man months for the design of maintenance schedules for all
pumping stations;



- 15 -
(b) 16 man months for the design and establishment of a project
accounts and cost accounting system to enable MED to
monitor project expenditures and sources of funds and to
determine the actual O&M cost for each pumping station; and
(c) 12 man months for the design and establishment of a store
inventory control system for spare parts.
The government has agreed to appoint all consultants by March 31, 1984, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
Maintenance of Pumping Stations
57.      Maintenance of the pumping stations is the responsibility of the
regional offices of MED, with a maintenance engineer in each district
reporting to the chief maintenance engineer of the directorate who in turn
reports through the chief of the directorate to MED in Cairo. There is,
however, no formal inspection and review of maintenance. The pumping units
are marginally maintained to keep them operating, but lack adequate preventive
maintenance. The provision of additional workshops and electrical
laboratories under the project is expected to improve the quality of
maintenance, as is the provision of a specialist to design maintenance
schedules, with special emphasis on preventive maintenance (paras. 52, 53 and
56). The maintenance schedules would be prepared by December 31, 1984, and an
effective maintenance inspection and review program would be established
within MED taking into account the specialist's recommendations (Loan
Agreement, Sections 3.06(a) and (b)).
58.      MED is responsible for the cost of operation and maintenance of the
30 pumping stations, which after rehabilitation is estimated to be
approximately US$1,540,000 annually (about US$1.25 per feddan serviced). This
cost would be covered by the annual budget of MED.
Cost Accounting System
59.      At present, no adequate accounting system exists in MED to provide
information on the actual expenditures for operation and maintenance (O+M) at
each station. Under the project, an appropriate cost accounting system would
be established within MED which would assist budgetary planning and provide
accurate information on O&M costs. The system would be designed and
implemented with the assistance of consultants (para. 56). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that this system would be established within MED
by March 31, 1985 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(c)).
Store Inventory System
60.      MED operates a number of stores for spare parts and expendable
materials required for pumping stations. At present only simple records of
acquisitions and dispositions are kept, with occasional checks on the accuracy



- 16 -
of the books. A store inventory control system would be designed and
implemented with the assistance of consultants (para. 56) to provide
information on the availability and distribution of spare parts and materials
and to allow forecasting of purchase requirements. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that MED would establish an appropriate system before
March 31, 1985 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(c)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
61.      Various systems would be introduced under the project to improve
MED's monitoring and evaluation capacity. The instruments to be installed
with the new pump units in 15 pumping stations would provide information on
station performance, operation time for each pump unit, power demands and
possible maintenance problems; the cost accounting system would provide
information on the actual O&M costs of each station; and the store inventory
control system would provide information on the availability and distribution
of spare parts. These monitoring activities would be carried out by MED and
annual monitoring and evaluation reports sent to the Bank within six months of
the end of each reporting year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
Project Costs and Financing
62.      The total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated to be
US$68.4 million (based on 1982 prices), of which US$41.4 million represents
the foreign exchange component. Customs duties for imported equipment are
estimated at US$6.4 million and are shown separately in the project costs.
Physical contingencies have been provided at 15%, except for some equipment
(vehicles, laboratory equipment, and other minor items) for which 10% physical
contingencies were used. Price contingency estimates assume an increase in
local currency costs of 14% in 1983, 13% in 1984, 12% in 1985, 11% in 1986,
and 10% per annum thereafter (based on expected domestic inflation) and in
foreign exchange costs of 8.5% in 1983, 7.5% per annum in 1984-86, and 6% per
annum thereafter.
63.      The proposed World Bank loan of US$41.5 million (including the front
end fee) would finance the foreign exchange cost of the project. All local
currency expenditures, including customs duties for imported equipment, would
be financed by the government. The government has agreed to provide, promptly
as needed, the local funds required for the implementation of the project
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
Procurement
64.      The construction of the new pumping station, with an estimated total
value of US$12.5 million (excluding contingencies), would be procured by "turn
key" international tender, in which the principal contractor would be either
the equipment supplier or the civil works contractor. It is important for one
contractor (or contractor group) to be responsible for the building of the
station, the supply of pumps, and the installation because the buildings
should fit the pump characteristics and design, which vary considerably
according to manufacturer. Detailed building design would be prepared by the
principal contractor on the basis of the site and machinery requirements;



- 17 -
alternative design solutions would, however, be accepted and considered during
bid evaluation. Replacement pump units and other equipment for 14 stations
would be procured and installed through international competitive bidding.
This tender, for which alternative design solutions would also be accepted, is
estimated at US$14 million (excluding contingencies). Spare parts of an
estimated value of US$3.5 million (excluding contingencies) would be procured
for the repair of pump units and other equipment in 15 stations and for
emergency repairs in stations outside the project area. Some of these spares
(e.g. transformers), of an estimated value of US$400,000, would be procured
through ICB. The remainder would be procured directly from the original
manufacturer of the pumps on the basis of negotiated prices.
65.      Equipment for workshops, vehicles, cranes, forklifts, laboratory
equipment, and equipment for the central control system of the Nasr Canal, of
a total estimated value of US$2.9 million (excluding contingencies), would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Local manufacturers would be allowed a 15% margin or the actual
customs duty, whichever is lower. An exception to ICB would apply to small
contracts of up to US$100,000 equivalent, which may be awarded on a
competitive basis to reliable suppliers after quotations have been obtained
from at least three such suppliers, whenever practicable. The aggregate
expenditure for items so procured would not exceed US$500,000 equivalent.
66.      Civil works for workshop buildings, repair of existing pumping
station buildings, installation of the central control system on the Nasr
Canal, and for staff houses, of an estimated value of US$5.1 million
(excluding contingencies), would be financed by the government and would be
awarded following local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
67.      Consultants would be engaged according to Bank procedures.  Forty man
months of consultants' time is estimated, at an average cost of US$10,000 per
man month (total cost US$400,000).
Disbursement
68.      The Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of five years
(mid-FY84 to mid-FY89) in accordance with the following percentages:
(a) Rehabilitation of pumping stations and emergency spare parts:
100% of foreign expenditures;
(b) Procurement of equipment for workshops, vehicles, laboratory
equipment, equipment for the Nasr Canal central control system,
and other equipment: 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory, or 80% of local expenditures of
imported items procured locally; and
(c) Consultants' services: 100% of total cost.
To accelerate disbursements, retroactive financing of up to US$2 million would
be allowed to finance procurement of spare parts from original manufacturers
for the urgent repair of pumps.



- 18 -
Auditing and Accounts
69.      In addition to the established auditing procedures within the
Ministry of Irrigation, MED would establish and maintain separate accounts for
the project to reflect its operations, resources and expenditures. These
accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditing organization
acceptable to the Bank and annual audit reports would be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Project Execution
70.      The Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) of the Ministry of
Irrigation would be the agency responsible for the implementation of the
project. MED, with a staff of experienced mechanics and electrical engineers,
is responsible for the design, procurement, installation, operation and
maintenance of all major pumping facilities in Egypt. In the past, the
Projects Section of MED has placed insufficient emphasis on supervision of the
construction of pump buildings and on their maintenance. Accordingly, for the
supervision of the construction works, MED would assign experienced civil
engineers to the Civil Works Unit of the Projects Section as required, or
would contract this work to a local consulting firm; and civil engineers would
be appointed in each directorate to carry out routine maintenance of civil
works (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)).
71.      A task force has been formed within MED to carry out project
preparation. This task force would be maintained for carrying out day-to-day
project implementation activities such as preparation of tender documents and
evaluation of bids, project accounts, withdrawal applications, progress
reports, and the project completion report. It was agreed that the task force
already established would be adequately staffed and maintained during the
entire period of project implementation (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03)
Cost Recovery
72.      Expenditures on irrigation and drainage investment are partly
recovered through land taxes on holdings of more than three feddans. The
possibility of charging farmers directly for water use was examined, but it
was concluded that it would not be possible to implement such measures in
Egypt at this time. It was recognized that farmers are already paying
considerably more than the cost of the benefits they receive, by the
substantial net transfer of resources from agriculture to other sectors
through the pricing mechanism. This transfer is estimated at about US$800
million in 1980, or 15% of agricultural value added. Any cost recovery
measures would, therefore, have the effect of "retaxing" them. The cost
recovery (and pricing) issue is being discussed with the government within the
framework of sector studies and general policy dialogue.
Benefits and Risks
73.      By increasing the reliability of irrigation and drainage operations,
the project would benefit the 490,000 farm families (about 2.7 million people)
who live in the project area, about 50% of whom have incomes below the poverty
level. It has been conservatively estimated that without the project, crop



- 19 -
yields would decline by 0.5% per year due to continuing loss of efficiency and
reliability of existing pump units. The savings in losses due to the project
(agricultural benefits) represent an annual average of US$19.2 million. The
project is also expected to have a beneficial effect on water use, because
increased reliability of supply would discourage farmers from
over-irrigating. The living conditions of the pumping station staff would be
improved by the provision of housing, water and electricity supplies; while
improved maintenance and monitoring systems would increase safety, as well as
reduce maintenance costs. The improvement in efficiency of the pump units
through rehabilitation would result in an annual average savings in energy of
about 33 million Kwh, representing about US$2 million, and an annual average
savings in maintenance cost of about US$1.3 million. These savings would
benefit the government, which has the responsibility for the operation of the
pumping stations. The introduction of monitoring, cost accounting and store
inventory systems, and the provision of spare parts to be used, in cases of
emergency, in pumping stations outside the project area, would benefit not
only the stations to be rehabilitated under the project but pump facilities
operated by MED throughout the country.
74.      The economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at about 40%, based on
the agricultural benefits (avoidance of crop losses) and reduced maintenance
and energy costs from increased pump efficiency. If project implementation is
delayed by 3 years, the ERR would be 21%; if costs rise by 50%, it would be
28%; and assuming both (delay of 3 years and costs up 50%), the ERR would
still be about 15%.
75.      There are three possible areas of risk in the project.  One is the
possibility of delays in implementation resulting in continued irrigation
inefficiencies and reduced or delayed project benefits. To minimize this
risk, a detailed implementation schedule has been drawn up giving a number of
advance procurement actions which can be taken to expedite start-up of
construction and repair activities. In addition, a covenant has been included
in the Loan Agreement that the government would guarantee, on an annual basis,
the local funds required for implementation of the project and for operation
and maintenance of project-financed pumping stations (para. 63).
76.      The second possible risk is that the project pumping stations would
not be properly operated and maintained, resulting in reduced efficiency and
life expectancy of the pumping equipment. Various provisions have been
included in the project to minimize this risk. The project would provide for
the establishment of electrical repair laboratories and workshops, design of
maintenance schedules, and the establishment of an effective maintenance and
review system. Civil engineers would be appointed in each directorate to
carry out routine maintenance of civil works.
77.      Inadequate maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems is the
third area of risk. However, the Bank and USAID are both financing projects
to upgrade the maintenance of irrigation canals and field drainage and to
strengthen the operation, maintenance and planning capabilities of the
Ministry of Irrigation, thus providing a basis for developing an adequate
maintenance program.



- 20 -
78.      The project is expected to have a positive impact on the physical
environment by helping in the case of the drainage stations to keep the water
table at low levels, thereby reducing the health problems accompanying
stagnant water. The project would also improve the living conditions of the
station staff, and increase the safety at the pumping stations through the
provision of better instruments and maintenance of electrical equipment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
79.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
80.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
81.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 7, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-21 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAG5S
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            1001.4                                                     MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       28.5                                 MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA   CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   110.0       190.0      580.0                1253.6                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      283.0        305.8     538.5                 713.5                    1259.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                     *
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25929.0       32341.0   39773.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37.9          42.3      45.4                   47.3                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        60.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                  ..     103.6
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        25.9         32.3      38.8                  35.8                      35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    985.9        1137.6    1364.7                 420.9                      92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.2         41.8      39.8                  44.3                      39.7
15-64 YRS.                          54.7         54.9      56.7                  52.4                      56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.1          3.2       3.5                    3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4          2.2       2.1                    2.8                      2.4
URBAN                               4.1          3.3       2.8                   4.6                       3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.5         38.4      36.6                   41.2                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0         15.1       12.1                  12.2                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0          2.7        2.4                   2.9                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       206.0      187.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           9.0      17.0..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0         99.0      92.0                 100.4                     110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   109.0        108.9     117.6/d               108.5                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           77.9         75.1      81.17-                71.9                      66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        18.5         17.4      19.97T                18.0                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      34.0         25.4      14.2                   15.1                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.1          51.3       56.6                  56.9                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           128.0           ..     103.4                  104.3                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..      66.0                   59.1                     65.6
URBAN                              39.5           ..      88.0                   83.1                     78.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..      50.0                   39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..                    ..                     59.3
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                   ..                      75.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                    ..                     30.0
POPULATION FER PHYSICIAN           2556.1       1856.7    1046.0d e            4015.5                    1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1933.3/e.,f  1588.4/e  1096.67'               1802.2                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             465.9        448.7     459.2/c                641.7                    477.4
URBAN                             509.7/f      352.7     652.067               538.3                     679.8
RURAL                            219o.57f    2126.1    2297.37i               2403.3                    1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..       30.8/c                25.5                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          ..        5.2/c
URBAN                               4.8           ..       5. 0oT
RURAL                                 ..          ..        5.S/c
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..        1.8/c
IURBAN                              1.6           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..      45.7tc
URBAN                              37.8           ..       76. 97
RURAL                                 ..          ..       18.67E.
*   The updated 1981 GMP per capita and population estiuates to be
shown in the 1982 World Bank Atlas are $650 (at J979-81 prices)
and 43,290.0 thousands.



- 22 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATCRS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGCS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA 6             MIDDLE INCOMF
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0         72.0       75.0                  88.7                     104.3
MALE                  80.0        88.0       88.0                 104.5                     106.4
FEMALE                52.0        56.0       61.0                  72.0                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  16.0        34.0       48.0                  39.7                     41.3
MALE                  23.0        46.0       59.0                  49.3                      40.4
FEMALE                 9.0        22.0       36.0                  29.0                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  22.0          19.0       19.5                  10.1                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         38.0       33.8                  34.1                     29.9
SECONDARY                           16.0        25.0       25.2                  23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         26.0          ..       44.0/d                43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.7         4.0        7.6/d                17.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION .                       57.9        136.1      138.9                 131.3                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.9        16.4       33.4                  44.1                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        23.0       63.7                  31.5                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.6/f         2.2        1. 8/                 1.7                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7481.4       9041.9   11063.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     7.3         7.2        7.9                  10.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               58.0        54.0       50.0                  42.4                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  12.0        19.0       30.0                  27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.9        28.0       27.8                  26.0                      33.6
MALE                                  53.2        51.5       50.7                  46.2                      50.4
FEMALE                                 4.2         4.1        4.4                   5.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.6       1.6                    1.9                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/h        17.4/h i  22.0/j
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.4/h        42 87. T  49.27.j
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/h         7.07FT   5.171,
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57h        18  I7         14.8.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      131.0                 279.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       94.0                 178.6                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     180.0                 403.6                    518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      115.0                 285.6                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       21.0                  22.1
RURAL                                ..           ..       25.0                  30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
almong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniforn.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1976; /d 1977; /e Registered, not all practing in the country; /f 1962; /I 1975; /h Rural expenditures;
/i 1965; /j National, 1974-75.                                                       __
May, 1982



- 23 -                                                                                      ANNEX I
datastetvaa fow  astea   seaai    N josetThe   S O  Sttattats sIIAt  eio. tU,                   b            t ~ -                    Page    3   of   6
eoshaeoiy caa l  bae.. ofth  List. at ettodtee   4s t                     -tse   ea   ee btese   h tt feroot - lost          b ..I-. c ete  the get..  The. t  .t
ChIes   efo1t  teorhaore. at  .wts4.d., tatt..t.  -tee.. ae                            .-.Lt.t ertt   -Jar. ffso    beta.  -a te...
The rfers   *tepe ae (1  thetam  osseP."O  at the   tjeta  .-..tt  ted (2) a aOst,7 V.,o  watt eaatlto  hitac' ataet  tots    _  te  -oete  A-oa*
at th -sbtetooar    eo           t far   '         itth 05.   01 oU t e   *otw  *ee. "hiddl. Istem  Meth tli..fl   sad [tittie  feet    k.a hea  bbbsta of .t.a.ge'
toa.-cItsrlb  Lftiis.  It t              h- cefar    gfet  data Lthe es %L.tgetapplta   Stibted ettaimata  esat  tat .et  ttfot     ted  ..a.  eiy shea fdl
eeoreyafet ot            _Oe  i..  a, stat  he. teat         . fa -t .Pttaa.   fiete  the  Cenoe  a  totate.me-t th   tetatt  dpe.L as the-a liath .I:t               . ofdt
ceo tALt-sa  at a tiL   mes  the tastrY O   esersc   io.W
Tot.aI - Tol e..    ceae  tteo510  evesI         _   ad  lisa   ete.  1979 data,                    _ta.   etcoa'          aiodb-tei  -eepcr  tobetbb  of boeeitei teds
Ooiclaro  -telet  of b&iulaa  ete seed aeta..tiiyal                ostty                   evtihi  to pshiit d oat         1.  ..a.t.eeetI as  e,-otia -d haapttti eat
fat  rap. eeeoro.  arht eat kleaba t.Att. or ta it. foIos; ifl9 "It..                     hahtiitetio       tett . hepttsle ote estehIlaheseO   poc=aoIV eta1ffd
hi at Il...t se  *hyttcL-.  tetahblhet. ...  ...tdt              "IL picrle eo--
OS,tO   TAul  fUSS)- - lt    It.s  atae   attotat .ebt Pricee. tl1-                              dt.l Oeta ta  et  aI.ded.  totti boptLIt.L  bass- .  tL','e  "ealth
colte  by  _es  oeatio    'tat-   cod  ..  wit  (lOts-to haste); iWO,                            oat eadtti  aste --        totv oa    .1taffd by a phyttatta  (ot by 
1970. Oat iW   date.                                                                               -di.a I -.eteat. ete  eef. ot.) edith etfec te-peieatoot- -
data.                                                                                            OAtai  .. car Vototta  9.d - Tota   _bet of adelOOtos  to o  dlt.herte
trehetsedividbd by eta ca ,a of hd..
POPU   IOTILS AS d, VITALTAT Is flC
Taa  outt.  l-Y-a  (,ba-,"St)   h  e  Jet7  1; 1960. 1970. sod iWO
dataoftci)-a                                         b.1    .11p..                               Aeag   le  f sehlt(;    _e-    ooebLd) ;- ta _l uee. set....l
trosttoatoc(ecea  f  tt    -   siaa   ebet .W"itatal  rap lato                           -A lbosbald coOia -     ad A btoat  .f  Ldg.,tai  aby ar ae  ialt  oar
so  aers;190. 1,70, eat 1905  data                                                      the batblid for ettsOc            oP.Mese.
Loa    opite   by ats -As -d     = .tef  artaLlt, Mld tactility  -aao.                 deaiIlted.'.aPeati-tei.  Dsallias  bkbist  vac-p -r-e-t a,ttaars   ead
Pt     __tia  foemst  fat  -ctlt,  wkte  toc5a   of thteiaee  ass                       aaac.pid    t.M
hog life esetaoyt  btch ietca-"I with ek                my     l e  taplta ie-o             toeat   leaaa,)treto  treiiat)     cos.aI'l"                          d  or
isL.   oatbb  fina.lsifa  :aatae7   seILtels et 77.5 y-kr.  rhe pate-                         Ca stoII doailicg  stab ettrtia    s  ite  qatae  opsttt
estat  f. at ftaiity tate eisa bas  'thte  le-I. .-W.i  deaioeto                              of  - taa. ach. oW   -Lra  teLIlos   ce...         ssy
fecaliy  stariagto  oom   la.ce  set Psot teily piio   prsttae
tt-1oatr   toolttos-lattoarepjotote    oa   rehsaePioveh -                                                       - tatti  sate sd f seae-ir .. t-tL . etle  btd fseate
tq ariet   s    e  to the desh roe,  ea  51s  the aso stotr    e                        soiato   i   sea   h    rm,isL;                     tecLatto   seets
esite tatt.ThU  itet. ee  telt ef;tat  becIuly ..... deolite  it                                 Si.rY ethl-te   vpibiae=treiy  alaa  tiide  ee  b
th. reis     -atlee   If -it ve  -srod4atio  rate. wbbb  -h01  gasa-ti                           y.... ho, adjueted E., dIfftes-   losh   of proavly eaa ;ftt
of __ao  repioc_  itself, _.I,tl.  Thaeetfr   peptaio   eaeae                                         ries vItAatfotsoct    estnt  e  .000.0  too Pd-tat
eS .td0  tha ba..t.o th  pvleat .         tettiataoItepeaats                               sae   m   pepate ece bats ofaoethe offLicia  ehei at.
lbth.ya  lOs..dt the  rat  ef doLmo   etltrt   oreit-treateho  - ttl.tal  at   eta-lattd  saoe   eotr
tea  stat bittrytast    te teethed - Th. ysa  ehm  es-asay POpOOseto                               ptsI-L"    eac.   tacatisea, attah r atiis   o ottg                       Itt ropLia
site   1 til   h- rahed.                                                                         oeaaliy of 1l to 17 es-r ofs..rtr            p . ...ate   r  aert
focluatto. D.- ily                                                                                    aiadOd.
P.t t.%  kd. - 5tid-yea  eota1tin  P.r vesors  Wilosta  (ttO  heytt) of                        t..oLsiol   -sraleas   bctt            b o  e    sr)  .-.t ...t.o ... hotatoa...
os-y  195.0  1960 sa 1979  data.       _Patt-testh taut.L -                                                                    :. ctear etheosa,            ."-ltdet    atiled.  ha
Poruiettot ee itracrae ipecroad  -  ibllttdes  10-10 .    b     feee,wr  &ee  1-pir    e  staaylsi   ivddh   tbt  O   ecata  h
atiot; 1060. 1970. an  1980dat..*t                                                                    trayoalerct    Lieoeadlt  (bi  to"E4b tea  .a  trite)L
,sor potolaitot tot 1950-hO. i9bo-70. e"'Pat"S                                                           :%X. 1975-0                                  th
Porottie Itsibtat      Vym.wtt   -   hurhat- tassel y ... teas  ofo        pp-               P, .i)         -       14W .
yoptOtot;lh. L970. sad 1940Oat.                                                            atli1t9vebi0ee
yoiati. tt. f. hO 19 9070. t10dt.                                                                btsc ..s  pto  esa phoblic re.t h..sc  at Polti;esctea
trs  heaocittds-tocs eiebotLOf doagteteW                         s P-  itt hear it                 i-esa  taoivee..  ld tetiahtsatoyasabtretrtiafrto
vilhtveetse;o.oaiiy  ttve-yaat atatetee sadist it. 1960. 1970. so  190.            tatcoatieaaiae   itcelo
of  ieth- -otel dev-ei      orteie   tstos     alypeta    rsa.                                 ssrlpal   a  thtordppaItc;TscIodes asoIfte                               -ire .tec
PsloPsoa- U---s lactof tarried   et   p-reto   of -Iledlcolts sdL -                                 I.         it r.er. etrtittot of  V et                a    affet.tl
Ii erhtcaet  se   age 2rsee.                                                           islatlos of  da ly seti h t               -eo  "P.p"' teftd asa   'iodi-O
,0,0                                                                    ~      ~~~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~p:biittta     dvotd primta 'I:tt roodio    eet es   It is  oetea
Ff0  )10tUTlTtmto h   daly0  t i  appeas tii.s_                                                                                           toac times1-   5.'0.I    -P"I
ista  f te    ogic  ste saihs m   toee_sett_est  )e.b. 000. as
hettsalseerse   eodast  ric  Pi bde 15-69  1970. sdt 190doeTolLattpe  itoaoas)-  coawcalyativ Leresa.i-clolit-
rettoy    Avilale dpp it  cow.  tosbt.,ei L   prItocai1st.  lad te  toe 4at ataP -ehe  196=    :197   a  1900 dasa.    - -
vasatcls usd i  fo tp dceeit.1  eatloso  t  di""         heI    ..$Lt.qi                        M%iTts2stet   labor  tom    sforica,  forste.. b it   a
ea. se   estlbl.sa   hyPriO hasad at pdytilasca  t             Ilp-ec tara ah f..                tab      asr.l. IPoroa    atM tota  leAse "tom;i.         90a.a   a
eatysad  ealt                   M.eierageairestlj t.-It."   hodL veiot.  ag                   ito5l.Ss50s  -tdttre  eeot.caortts  to.ttt
bata lod lent; 1961-65  1970 eat 1977 teta.                                                        1900, 197  ea  19600ae
etiosttasof h  era   of ttta  retee pe  dayse .10  cm   o f toasaP ea                190. 197. ae  iOtA   at,th            on beaf  t so 1.05 taictat...r.        e
ras frri.a  which 10 ersa.~I bbat h  a La  potoLb.  Th.a.  -isd-                        r.t)thaeaeo tato                ofhepaltt.sdlethett.
attes  protis -   a svssa   tylt. astL4. V,Ptoaad by Ped is the Thi.O                tcaoOtOt.dstrtai  - gato it p.pstatto- seda  10 sad h5 sadot
ye   stt   roea  ot to  ate  tdroe I        Ce  *t oPI,   fttat O-
tis  ro  oam.se  pbe   i  ea   ptdy10-0.1970 so  1977 data.                        lIlCetE  OLftTtt TIt5
Child(g.ia   ot  ao(s  hsaO                           a  deaths  e  eh--ea     at               ft-t...s it Privet. laro             (both at  -Ie oat kloo   - he. cive  by  cet
ate  acu  i-s yto.' Mto  h1itttt    thiag  er          C.'ttes  teeelpta  cPs....sost. 'roh.e. 20 P....ti. psta   1   ecst   etpres   icecr
tIhie date dathve  fn  lIfe taL.e; 1960. 1970 sod logo dAta-o  hosehelda.
tL                                                                                             '-.TVUT  TAi=Ts frost
Lif tiosttotc  ec BslothI -ste)-  vase  s5   at rest, at lae-Vttg                                m   topas                               ...tats   ae-ac  ..ttttt   ...... .f poverty1.
at birth; 1901.9(   510too.-aeetath   atpoe                                                                                     thb -eatdrglecoats
ofooPat aottod LIve blhtah; 1960. 1970 .5d 1950 datal2;11. Osoit  pvrtyito                                             loe   s  he   ae   lay21.) halo.~ suh   a ti Le
b    pio.eob    (tt;.ubt.  stoalvitth  -otbhi   ;cras  tottebbtthe
rerceaeese  f thelroepsr iv.popoisleas.Is a   that aes a  ihihcpotesel hecet of  he ta                     I...itLet  soal  s d dtved  I tohbth  rura
Toit--o or  tda.e.. 1.osted act eas  ha  200  tr  ftc. 5 hat  ear a.                                   Wiolpth otlitet-   tothgoto     o    yt  is o.,at.. e....
coeteea  hehog abitv  reisable. .ct... of that ba        l.brrhass                      ttlae   ooleo    eo  Aitooto po Vert... I ..s L"vl-, (tat..e.I- urban
reassabo acessotot hPly that th  heatettfs or .Mst    if  ;eAs              Idal          .t.ia     tyeto  pplto   .at..    ea   -oel)   oea                      tt
to  cthevs tpotad  dhe. ....... -te  P-t- of th  dee  i.t ..tohiss the                      oS0
-ae  of rpspL. (toisi    ra,earta)sre   yaort   hpata
PotoIleto   o   hsca   tOsltoO   lt.t4 by otebet of plettIet   paysi-                                                                 fca.-bil  set  toth l Ot    tru
flee    aitedto-            sicleho   t alvarity lan.                                                                           gcti  A-ayieai  to  P10J..tIls  OePtartest
PorolotiOt err sottist Pststo  - ttps.iathaa tivitad  by toeo  at trattisoas                                  ff5, 190
ate  adtalt gadote eras.  sitt    =ttes               . peait   ca      kd a
zlarett bogtLitthsk.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                          Page 4 of 6
Population: 43.3 million (1980/81)
GNP per capita: US 3650 a/ (1980/81)
Amount (million
USS at current                                      A N N U A L   G R 0 W T H   R A T E S   (2)
prices)                     A C T U A L                                 EST.               P R O J E C T E D
1980/81        1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/81   1981/82   1982183   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product b/           24233.0          10.4    10.3    10.9    11.9        8.2       9.2        7.6        7.8        7.2        7.1        6.5        6.1
Agriculture                      4901.0            6.3      1.6    -3.0      5.5      3.9       4.3        3.0        2.3        2.5        2.6       2.7        2.9
Industry                         4379.0           10.6     4.8      9.8    12.3       6.5       7.6        7.3        9.0       9.2        8.8        9.1        8.5
Petroleum                        4440.0           39.4    52.3    55.2    22.0    10.3         18.9        6.0       8.6         6.3       7.4        5.5        4.4
Services                         9415.0            9.2    11.6      9.4    12.0    10.2        10.8        9.9      11.0        9.8        8.5        7.4        6.6
Consumption                         20147.0          -3.8      8.3    11.0    11.2       4.5      12.6        9.0        9.2        8.3        7.1        6.7        6.0
Gross Investment                     7309.0          54.2    -8.2       9.3    -2.4      9.4       5.5        7.1        6.0        5.8        5.7        5.7        6.1
Exports of GNFS                      8205.0          27.2    30.8       9.0     3.0      5.8      10.7        8.1        8.2        6.0        6.8       5.8         5.3
Imports of GNFS                     11429.0          16.0    -5.3       2.5     4.2      8.9      13.7        7.9        6.8        6.7        5.4       5.1        4.7
Gross National Soving                5019.3         133.0    74.8    25.7    17.4   -13.4          -          -          -          -          -         -          -
PRICES
GDP Deflator                                         50.6    55.9    60.5    65.8    81.0    100.0            -
Exchange Rate c/                                      2.15    1.97    1.75    1.54    1.43         1.35       -          -          -          -         -          -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (2)                           Average Increase (2) at Constant Prices
(at current prices)                                1965 Prices  1975 Prices    1980/81 Prices
1960    1970    1975    1979    1980/81  1984/85                 1960-1970    1970-1975  1975-1979  FY81-FY86
Gross Domestic Product
- Agriculture                       27.9    25.3    28.2    19.9        20.2      15.7                 4.7            5.1         1.9         2.4
Industry & Petroleum             23.7    26.1    26.1    34.1        36.4      35.8                  3.0           2.6        17.5         8.6
- Services                         42.9    40.8    42.7    41.2         38.8     43.7                  6.3           4.4         10.8         8.6
Consumption                         87.3    90.6    87.7    79.8        83.1     88.0                  4.4            8.0         6.8         8.5
G.ross Investment                   13.3    13.9    33.4    32.8        30.2      28.5                 5.8           4.2          1.8         5.8
Export of CNFS                      19.5    14.2    20.2    30.7        33.9      33.0                 4.9          22.8         11.6         6.8
Import of GNFS                      20.1    18.8    41.3    45.7       47.2      49.6                  1.1          13.5          2.5        6.4
Gross National Saving               12.9      7.7    14.6    27.0       20.7      14.6                 7.2           17.2        22.2         -
As 2 of GDP
1960    1970    1975    1979    1980/81   1981/82
PUBLIC FINANCE
Lurrent Revenue                   18.5    21.3    34.1    32.9         46.6       43.2
Current Expenditure              21.5    22.0    40.5    36.0          38.6      40.6
Current Surplus (-) or
Deficit (-)                    -3.0    -0.7    -6.4    -3.1           8.0        2.6
tuvest- ct Expenditure           11.8    11.1    11.8    20.0         22.2      21.3
Foreign Financing                  -       -        5.9      8.9        6.5        5.8
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  FY81-FY87
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (2)                 4.5       5.0      11.5       7.3
GNP per capita growth
rate (%)                          1.9      2.7       8.7       5.4
Energy consumption growth
rate (2) d/                               14.9      13.2      11.0
ICOR                                                   3.6       3.3
Marginal Savings Rate               -         -        0.46      0.12
Import Elasticity                   0.9       1.7      0.9       0.8
a/  Based on EPD methodology (three year average exchange rate).
C7 GDP for 1980/81 at current prices is valued at market prices.  Sectoral shares and rates of growth concern GDP at factor cost.
c/ Effective rate computed as a weighted average of offic-al and pArallel market rates.
d/ Electricity only.
EM1DA
March 1983



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EGYPT - EXTERNAL TRADE
ulation: 43.3 million (1980/81)
.NP per capita: US$650a/(1980/81)
Amount (million)                      Annual Growth Rate (x) at Constant 1980/81 Prices
US$ at current
prices)                         A C T U A L                              EST          P R O J E C T E D
1980/81    1975       1976      1977      1978      1979    80/81    81/82         82/83    83/84    84/85
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports                6002        27.2      19.6       3.1        7.7       9.6      10.5       8.4       7.2       5.6       6.7
-  Primary b/                       664       -15.3      -8.5      25.7    -29.8        4.5       10.1      -3.5       0.9       1.2       1.4
-  Manufactures b/                  920        24.8    -14.6    -27.3        17.9        2.1    -12.5       -6.2       6.2       6.8       7.4
-  Petroleum                      4442         72.0      63.3      11.1      16.1      22.6       12.1      13.7       8.3       5.9       7.2
Merchandise Imports               10039        14.1      -5.0      -1.1       8.5        5.9      18.0       7.5       6.3       6.5       5.1
-  Food                           2556         27.4      16.9    -18.1       25.8      -7.0       21.2      11.8       3.0       5.5       3.1
-  Petroleum                        333       -34.2    -23.3    -53.3         2.7    -11.8        17.7       6.4       3.3       1.8       0.4
-  Machinery and Equipment         3900        59.5      24.8      21.4      -0.7      25.6       14.3       7.4       7.3       6.7       6.6
-  Others                          3250        17.9    -26.2       10.7        7.5      0.2       20.0       4.4       8.3       7.5       5.5
Prices
Export Price Index                             51.5      49.9      52.3       52.9      76.0    100.0       93.8    100.7    109.1    119.4
Import Price Index                             60.6      63.5      70.4      76.1      87.9      100.0    105.8    116.9       126.2     135.7
Terms of Trade Index                           85.0      78.6      74.3      69.5      86.5    100.0        88.6      86.1      86.5      88.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)          Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                at constant 1980/81 prices
1970      1975      1979    80/81  84/85         1975/79   FY81/FY85
Exports                                                                           9.8       6.8
Primary b/                64.2      28.3      13.6      11.1   12.1          -4.1        2.9
Petroleum                  4.8      25.2      71.0      74.0   71.0          26.8        7.3
Manufacturesb/            31.0      46.7      15.4      14.9   16.8         -15.3        6.9
Imports                                                                           1.9       6.1
Food                      13.4      23.6      22.9      25.5   24.8            2.9       5.1
Petroleum                  8.2       6.9       3.3       3.3    2.4         -24.5        2.8
Machinery                 23.4      23.7      38.8      38.8   40.2           17.2       6.8
Others                    55.0      45.8      35.0      32.4   32.6          -3.1        6.1
Share of Trade with            Share of Trade with                     Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)        Developing Countries (%)           Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1965      1970      1975        1965      1970       1975               1965      1970      1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                            27.0      17.0      14.0         18.0      22.0      10.0                1.0       1.0       4.0
Primary                        29.0      19.0       18.0        17.0      22.0      11.0                  -        1.0       3.0
Manufactures                   19.0       12.0       3.0        23.0      23.0       9.0                 4.0       3.0       5.0
Imports                           55.0       42.0      65.Q        18,0      25.0       14.0                 -         -        4.0
a/ Based on EPD methodology (three year average exchange rate).
b/ Not including oil and oil products.
EMIDA
March 1983



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
EST.                  P R O J E C T E D
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   1980/81  1981/82           1982/83     1983/84    1984/85    1985/86   1986/87
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods and Non-Factor
Services                                  2251    2503    3319    3888    4099    5585    8205           8070         8320       11496       13367       15298       17442
- of which merchandise f.o.b.               1818    1875    2169    2346    2558    4024    6002            5580        5650        8110        9467       10846        12359
Imports of Goods and Non-Factor
Services                                 -3959   -5141   -5182   -5879   -6612   -8300  -11429  -11500             -10850      -17739       -20079      -22389      -24875
- of which merchandise c.i.f.              -3618   -4608   -4659   -5110   -5998   -7336  -10039  -10350             -11204       -15418      -17427      -19396      -21520
Net Factor Income                             70      122      413      472    1098    1143        850        48          70        1198        1086         941          778
Net Private Transfers                         42       90       87       63       54       88       60        66          73          80          88           97         106
Current Account Balance                    -1596   -2426   -1363   -1456   -1361   -1484   -2314    -3316              -2387       -4965       -5538       -6053       -6549
Private Direct Investment                     87      225      444      477      387      710    1170       1350        1472        1782        2016        2250         2512
MLT Loans and Grants (Net)                    69      270      647      730    1141    1471    1516         1291        1165        2263        2303        2430         2622
- official loans and grants                  -21      210      490      803    1028    1034    1213         1461        1177        1633        1829        2161         2320
- private                                     90       60      157      -73      113      437      303     -170          -12         630         474         269          302
Other Capital (Net) 4/                      1393    1907       191      339    -181    -599    -705          768        -250         920        1219         1373        1415
Change in Reserves                            47       24       81      -90       14      -98      333       -93           0           0           0            0           0
International Reserves 1/                    516      678      642      880    1106    1098    1300          900         900        1154        1079        1018          960
- of which gold                              102      102      102      104      104      104      --        --         --          --          --          --            --
Reserves as Months Imports 3/                1.7      1.8      1.7      2.1      2.2      1.8      1.5       1.0         0.9         0.9         0.8         0.7          0.7
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disb-r-ements                         2185    3522    2218    3286    2758    2291    2562            2731        3012        5259        5978        6469         6965
Official Grants 5/                       1261      986      705      382      291       72     279       395          519         626         719         775         860
Concessional Loans                        120    1444       668    1855    1600       996    1276       1034          952        1472        1524        1628        1646
- DAC                                      55      199      421      591      799     833    1103        900          798        1292        1329        1421        1388
- OPEC                                      3    1142       171      137       93      43       69        28           16           1           0           0            0
- IDA                                      12       49       42       42       45      55       48        99          127         103          82          44          22
- Others                                   50       54       34    1085       663       65      56          7          11          76         113         163         236
Non-Concessional Loans                    804    1092       845    1049       867    1223    1007       1302         1541        2162        2428        2598        2850
- official eaport credits                 379      639      214       24       44       50      83       185          292         145         182         204         230
- IBRD                                     -        14       36       37       57      118     146       139          190         282         347         411         472
- other multilateral                       -         6       -       256       18        5       4         18          27          61          83         102         120
- private                                 425      433      595      732      748    1050      774       960         1032        1674        1816        1881        2028
Gap Financing                                                                                                                        999        1307         1468        1608
Etternal Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              2830    4830    5770    8090    9920   11330   13505    14849              15517       20216       23179       26377        29720
- official                               1990    3890    4720    6800    8500    9470   11296    11370             12051        14306       15488       16948       18468
- private                                 840      940    1050    1290    1420    1860    2210          3479         3466        3736        4210        4479        4781
- gap financing                                                                                                                  2174        3481        4950        6471
Dndisbursed Debt                            1602    2426    3014    4515    4390    4629    5951            9836        8559        7315        7713         8211        8830
Debt Service
Total Service Payment                        517      595      665    1099    1211    1040    2334          1928        2380        3400        4037         4768        5587
- interest                                 70      115      111      340     387      236      684       910          800         914        1036        1156         1275
- payment as I exports _/                 21%    21.6%   16.8%   23.9%   21.8%   14.6%   15.6%    21.2%              25.4%       21.1%       22.2%       22.1%      22.2%
Average Interest Rate on New Loans           6.3      4.7      5.1      5.1      4.6      6.4      6.5       7.3         7.3         7.3          7.2         7.2         7.2
- official
- private
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)    17.2    18.5    23.3    18.7    27.9    24.5    19.5                16.9        16.0         15.8        15.7       15.6        15.6
- official
- private
1/  Foreign assets of Central Bank.
2/ Exports of goods and services not including foreign oil companies exportr.
3/  Merchandise only.
4/  Including commercial banks operations, residual foreign financing and special balance of payments financing.
5/ Including special balance of payments grants.
EMIDA
March 1983



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved       Borrower        Purpose                                       (less cancellations)
Numbers           FY                                                                   Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
20 Loans and Credits fully disbursed 1/                                                 393.4    257.8           -
Ln 1064             75             SCA          Suez Canal Rehabilitation                50.0        --          7.7
Ln 1239             76            APA           Alexandria Port                          45.0        --         20.3
Ln 1276-T 2/        76            ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                 50.0        --         13.8
Cr  637             76            ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                     --     40.0          4.9
Ln 1285             76            ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                  10.0        --         10.0
Ln 1292             76            ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                   52.0        --          4.5
Ln 1369             77            AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                  53.2        --         19.4
Cr  719             77             ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                      --     27.0          1.1
Ln 1439             77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                   27.0        --         22.0
Ln 1440-T 2/        77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                   12.0        --          9.8
Cr  774             78            ARE           Telecommunications II                      --      53.0         31.0
Cr  830             78            ARE           Agricultural Development                    --     32.0         19.4
Cr  831             78            ARE           Urban Development                          --      14.0         11.6
Cr  850             79             ARE          Population II                               --     25.0         11.8
Cr  868             79            ARE           Education II                                --     40.0         20.3
Ln S-14             79            ARE           New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance              11.0        --          3.3
Cr  909              79            ARE          Tourism                                     --     32.5         24.5
Ln 1732             79            ARE           Gulf of Suez Gas                         75.0        --          3.7
Cr  935             79            ARE           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power            --     37.0         21.7
Ln 1733             79            EEA           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 3/  102.0           --        100.8
Cr  988             80            ARE           Agroindustries                              --     45.0         15.3
Ln 1804             80            DIB           Development Industrial Bank IV           50.0        --          7.4
Ln 1842             80            ARE           MIDB                                     30.0        --         26.8
Cr 1024             80            ARE           Cairo Gas Distribution                      --     50.0          0.3
Ln 1849             80            ARE           Pulp and Paper                           50.0        --         44.9
Ln 1886             80             EEA          Power III                                  7.0       --          7.0
Cr 1052             80             EEA          Power III                                   --    120.0         91.4
Cr 1069             81             ARE          Education III 4/                            --     40.1         25.6
Ln 1928             81             EGPC         Western Desert Exploration               25.0        --          7.2
Cr 1083             81            ARE           New Land Development 4/                     --     80.0         55.4
Cr 1111             81            ARE           Fish Farming 4/                          --        14.0         10.4
Ln 2002             81             HADISOLB    Hadisolb Rehabilitation                   64.0        --         62.1
Cr 1156             81            ARE           Beheira Water Supply 4l                     --     56.6         47.2
Cr 1162             81             ARE          Technical Assistance 4/                     --      6.9          6.1
Ln 2041             82             ARE          Telecommunications III                    64.0       --         64.0
Ln 2074             82             DIB          Development Industrial Bank V           120.0        --        106.0
Ln 2103             82             EGPC         Abu Qir Gas Development                   90.0       --         90.0
Ln 2176             82             ARE          Greater Cairo Urban Development          59.0        --         59.0
Ln 2243             83             ARE          Agroindustries II 5/                      81.2       --         81.2
Totals 6/                                                                              1520.8    970.9        1168.9
Of which has been repaid                                                                 103.6       1.7
Total now outstanding                                                                  1417.2    969.2
Amount sold                                             7.5
Of which has been repaid                                7.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                          1417.2    969.2
1/  Excludes 3 credits for engineering which were subsequently refinanced, and a US$1 million PPF advance granted
for the Greater Cairo Urban Development Project.
2/  Third Window Loan.
3/  Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of US$35.0 million.
4/  Credit denominated in SDRs.  Amount shown is US$ equivalent at time of negotiations for the IDA amount, and US$
equivalent at March 31, 1983 for the undisbursed amount.
5/  Not yet effective.
6/  Excludes a US$132 million loan for an El Dikheila Port Project which has been approved by the Board but not yet
signed.
(231J)



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal
Year    Obligor                    Type of Business                   Loan     Equity    Total
-----(US Million)------
76, 82  Arab Ceramic Company       Ceramic Industry                    6.63      1.14      7.77
78    Nile Clothing Company    Ready-Made Garment Industry          0.43      0.16       0.59
78    Delta Sugar Company        Agricultural Production,          20.00      3.00      23.00
mainly sugar
79, 83  Ismailia Misr Poultry    Food and Food Processing             12.49     2.35      14.84
Company
80, 81  Ismailia Fish              Food and Food Processing            3.91      1.05      4.96
Farming Company
80    Suez Cement Company        Building Materials                 30.00        -      30.00
81    Luxor Hotel                Crocodile Tourist Project           4.41     0.72       5.13
Total gross commitments                                               77.87      8.42     86.29
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                                12.00       -       12.00
Total commitments now held by IFC                                     65.87      8.42     74.29
Total Undisbursed                                                     12.41      2.99     15.40
231J



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project execution is generally satisfactory, although some items
have lagged behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for all items have been
awarded. The financial situation of the borrower is sound.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Progress on the execution of the main civil works contract is
proceeding slowly and other civil works are behind schedule, due largely to
changes in the senior management of the Alexandria Port Authority and
delays in the provision by Government of funds to pay the contractor.
Procurement of most equipment is progressing satisfactorily except for the
radar equipment for which the Authority has decided to call for new bids.
Project completion may be delayed by up to 12 months.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
While substantial progress has been made on most components of
this loan, the El Nasr Canal component is three years behind schedule; this
is the main irrigation canal in the project area. After extensive
discussion with the Government, a new schedule has been developed for the
repair of the Canal, and progress is now being made. On this basis the
closing date was extended initially for one year. All funds are committed
for the credit component. Although there have been significant problems in
the development of the seed farm, the Bank has been discussing with
Egyptian officials revised modes of management which should improve
performance.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Progress on construction of open drains is satisfactory with
completion on 390,000 feddans, about 78% of the project area.  Tile drains
have been installed on 100,000 feddans, about 20% of the project target.
This activity is behind schedule due mainly to construction planning and
management constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public sector
contracting companies, as well as because of earlier delays in importing
plastic pipe laying machines. The project management has recently taken
steps to improve progress, in particular to try to improve construction
management. The Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule, but it will need
continued integrated strategy of snail control measures and treatment of
infected patients, and improved quality control. The Government has
requested an extension of the closing date, which is under consideration.
The credit portion of the project was drawn down first.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976; Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a fire on the construction site of one of
the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost about
US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised, due
to the increased scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction
materials. Although disbursements were slower than anticipated,
procurement under the Bank loan is virtually complete. The project closed
as scheduled, and the account is being held open for six months.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1984.
All contracts, except one for construction and operational
equipment, have been awarded. Serious foundation problems are being
encountered at one of the treatment plant sites and a delay of six months
is anticipated. Civil works construction at the other sites is progressing
well. The Alexandria Water General Authority (AWGA) is carrying out the
installation of data processing equipment which was purchased under the
project. AWGA is working with the Ministry of Finance to liquidate old
Government agencies' debts to AWGA. The Ministry will deduct the verified
balances directly from concerned agencies' accounts. The Government has
allocated amounts to compensate AWGA for losses in its Western Desert
operations; actual payment, which was scheduled to be made upon submission
of FY82 accounts, has not yet been made. Action on tariffs has been
delayed; a National Committee in the Ministry of Housing is preparing
proposals for nationwide tariff increases.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Construction and remodelling of open drains on about 624,000
feddans (77% of the project area) is on schedule. Tile drains have been
installed covering some 97,000 feddans, about 24% of the project target.
This activity is behind schedule mainly because of construction planning
and management constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public sector
contracting companies. About 40% of the civil works of the four new
pumping stations is completed; with the underwater foundation works nearing
completion, progress on this component is expected tc improve. The
Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule, but needs continued integrated
strategy of snail control measures and treatment of infected patients, and
improved quality control. More than 40% of the project has been disbursed
and over 90% committed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Out of the credit of US$53 million about US$40 million has been
committed and about US$7 million is in the process of being committed. Due
to earlier delays in procurement, the project has been delayed by about
three years. The closing date was extended initially from December 31,
1982 to June 30, 1983 to enable the Government to prepare a plan of action
for the settlement of receivables from Government agencies. A further
extension may be considered, pending satisfactory action on the collection
of arrears. ARENTO revised its telecommunications tariffs in
January/February 1982, and the resulting increased revenues are expected to
be sufficient for ARENTO to achieve the agreed minimum rate of return of
10% on its revalued assets.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project tractors have been procured and distributed. Agreements
have been reached and steps taken which have resulted in improved project
execution. Project organization and management have been strengthened and
the project has been simplified to reduce coordination problems. A study
of the agricultural bank's policies, organization, operations and finance
will be initiated shortly. Establishment and operation of machinery
workshops under the project are now under way and procurement of farm
implements is progressing.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of August
30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
The Assuit Governorate is making reasonable progress in
implementing its components. Since the revision in the Alexandria
components, progress has been quite satisfactory. Implementation of
project components in Cairo slowed down due to senior staffing changes.
However, implementation has since improved and is expected to catch up with
the agreed schedule. The credit closing date has been initially postponed
for one year to December 31, 1983. A further postponement is.anticipated.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983.
The construction of 85% of the project facilities and the
procurement of all furniture, equipment and vehicles have been completed.
The implementation of the project's software components began in 1981 and
is about three years behind schedule. A postponement of the closing date
will likely be needed. With the recruitment of additional personnel
project management has improved. Key actions such as a detailed action
plan for 1983/84 and a management information system are currently being
developed to help accelerate progress in the software components.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984.
Overall project execution is satisfactory. Implementation of the
technical assistance components is on schedule. Although disbursements are
somewhat slower than appraisal estimates, no major problems are envisaged.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The experimental mine started operations in January 1981, a delay
of about 10 months.  By September 1981 chemical tests on the phosphate rock
and optimization studies on alternative configurations of the project, its
scope and output volume as well as locations of phosphate processing
facilities were completed. In November 1982 a detailed project report on
the mining operations was received. The Bank's conclusions have been
communicated to the Egyptian authorities. A feasibility study for an
integrated project was foreseen within the engineering project. However,
agreement on its scope consistent with the Bank's conclusions will have to
be reached with the Egyptian authorities before the closing date of June
30, 1983 can be extended to undertake the study. Such an agreement has not
yet been reached.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Implementation is under way on most project components, and
construction work is well advanced for the telecommunications, electricity,
roads, water supply, Luxor airport terminal, and the hotel training school
components. Contracts have been signed for all studies and work by
consultants is progressing satisfactorily. The Luxor Hotel, the Nefertari
Guesthouse, and the Cairo Museum are the three major components which have
experienced unacceptably long delays in the past. Major problems and
issues have recently been solved, and implementation is now proceeding
under revised conditions. Coordination among responsible agencies
continues to present some difficulties, although these have been reduced by
recent measures to strengthen the project unit staff.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project was delayed initially but is now progressing
satisfactorily. Commissioning and start-up of the main plant facilities
should be completed by May 1983. The Ras Bakr component is scheduled to be
completed in AuLgust 1983, and the loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
December 1983.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Slow decision-making by EEA delayed the start of construction by
about one year but good progress in construction and procurement has
increased the possibility of completing the project on schedule. EEA's
rate of return is well below the agreed level, and measures to improve
EEA's financial situation are being discussed with the authorities.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
Progress is satisfactory. Construction of the Cairo abattoir has
been completed and construction of the Alexandria abattoir has commenced.
The credit component through the three participating banks is virtually
committed.
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is almost completely committed
and US$42.6 million has been disbursed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985.
After a change in ownership structure, MIDB has been reorganized
and has resumed its operations. Disbursements have been slow: only US$3.2
million has been disbursed; MIDB has recently revised its operation
forecast for 1983 and, as a result, expects to commit a substantial portion
of the loan by end-1983.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Because of prolonged negotiations over the legal status of the two
beneficiaries of the loan, project effectiveness was delayed for a year and
a half. Procurement is now proceeding satisfactorily; and at Rakta, all
the major packages have been awarded.
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The project goal of providing for the supply of natural gas to
about 160,000 households is currently expected to be reached by March 1984,
about four months behind the original target date. Considering the early
difficulties and the late start, this represents a significant improvement
in performance over the past 18 months. The average gas price for
household sales is expected to reach the target level after all the
premises are converted and customers switch to gas.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April
16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress is being made and no major problems are
envisaged. Although disbursements are currently below appraisal estimates
due to initial start-up delays, significant improvements are expected with
disbursements taking place against recently concluded contracts.
Ln. No. 1886-EGT - Third Power Project; US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052--EGT,
US$120 million of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Progress in the execution of the Shoubrah El Kheima Power Station
is satisfactory. However, the Aswan II component is about 14 months behind
schedule. EEA's rate of return is well below the agreed level, and
measures to improve EEA's financial situation are being discussed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US$25
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 13, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The seismic surveys and related interpretation work included in
the project have been essentially completed. Five exploration wells have
been drilled so far and two more are currently being drilled. Two of the
wells have resulted in discoveries of gas and oil. Appraisal drilling and
reservoir studies aimed at firming up the reserves are ongoing. A plan for
bringing gas from the project area into production is currently under study.
Cr. No. 1083-EGT - New Land Development Project; SDR 60.9 million (US$80
million) of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Development works on Phase I (7,500 feddans) started in July 1982,
and the work will be accelerated after the arrival of the ordered
construction equipment. The design and tender documents for Phase II
(17,000 feddans) are progressing satisfactorily and are expected to be
completed in April 1983. Field trials continue on schedule.
Cr. No. llll-EGT - Fish Farming Development Project; SDR 11 million (US$14
million) of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date:  January 25, 1982;  Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
Progress remains slow with respect to pond construction at Maryut
and implementation of the fish farm credit component.  The contract for
pumping equipment has been awarded and tendering is in progress for pump
station construction. Delays in recruitment of consultants have impeded
effective functioning of the project implementation unit. The Project
Director is planning to visit Washington in mid-April for consultations on
these matters, and an IDA supervision mission is scheduled late April.
Ln. No. 2002-EGT - Hadisolb Rehabilitation Project; US$64 million Loan of
July 28, 1981; Effectiveness Date: December 28, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986.
The technical assistance contract has been signed, and procurement
action is under way. The other components of the first stage
rehabilitation program, namely the KfW-financed rehabilitation of the old
Demag rolling mills and the USSR-supplied equipment packages, have
experienced moderate delays in the procurement stages; these delays are not
expected to have any substantial effect on the overall implementation of
Hadisolb's rehabilitation program.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Cr. 1156-EGT - Beheira Provincial Potable Water Supply Project; SDR 46.1
million (US$56.6 million) of November 25, 1981; Effectiveness Date: April
30, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
All but two small treatment plants in the Governorate of Beheira
are now operated by the Beheira Water Company (BWC),and the company's
distribution services have been extended to most of the major towns. BWC
is carrying out various measures to improve service. Out of 27 contracts,
one has been awarded, the award of five others (supply of pipes, meters,
chlorination equipment, extension of treatment plants and new chlorination
buildings) is under way, and bids are being invited for a further five.
Consultants are assisting the Borrower (the National Organization for
Potable Water and Sanitary Drainage - NOPWASD) in engineering, tender
evaluation and supervision of works. Engagement of management consultants
for the second phase of assistance to BWC in organization and finance is
under way. An updated proposal is being prepared for further discussions
with NOPWASD. BWC is planning to initiate shortly a first step tariff
increase in major towns in the governorate where water supply improvements
have already taken place.
Cr. No. 1162-EGT - Technical Assistance Project; SDR 5.7 million (US$6.9
million) of August 26, 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 15, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Progress is satisfactory. The Ministry of Irrigation has
finalized a contract for employment of consultants (Harza Engineering), and
has begun staffing the Project Preparation Unit. The Ministry of Land
Reclamation has selected consultants and is now negotiating a contract.
Ln. No. 2041-EGT - Telecommunications III Project; US$64 million Loan of
August 20, 1982; Effectiveness Date: February 28, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project is at the procurement stage. ARENTO is in the process
of preparing detailed plans and has issued bid invitations for line items.
Ln. No. 2074-EGT - Development Industrial Bank V Project; US$120 million
Loan of January 12, 1982; Effectiveness Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Progress is satisfactory: US$45.3 million has been committed and
US$14 million has been disbursed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Ln. No. 2103-EGT - Abu Qir Gas Development Project; US$90 million Loan of
May 3, 1982; Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
After initial delays, work is now in progress for the installation
of the offshore platforms. Drilling operations are expected to begin in
April 1983. Bids for the LPG plant, the major component of the onshore
facilities, are being analyzed and a contract is expected to be awarded in
June 1983, approximately 12 months later than estimated at appraisal.
Procurement of other major items is under way and the project is expected
to be completed by December 1984, as estimated at appraisal.
Ln. No. 2176-EGT - Greater Cairo Urban Development Project; US$59 million
Loan of October 26, 1982; Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1983; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
The loan became effective on February 16, 1983, and implementation
is gathering momentum. A substantial portion of the detailed designs are
complete. Some of the key advisors have been appointed and the procurement
process has been initiated.
Ln. 2243-EGT - Agroindustries II Pro;ect; US$81.2 million Loan of April 4,
1983; Effectiveness Date: (not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1987.
Action on effectiveness is under way.



- 38 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project:          4 months (June-September
1981)
(b) Date of first presentation to Bank:                March 1981
(c) Agencies preparing project;                        Ministry of Irrigation and
FAO/CP
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:            September 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:                March 11, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                     October 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.    Government would provide transmission lines to four drainage stations by
December 31, 1985 (para. 51).
2.    MED would recruit electrical engineers and other technical staff for the
six new electrical laboratories (para. 53).
3.    All consultants would be recruited by March 31, 1984, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 56).
4.    MED would design and implement maintenance schedules, and establish a
maintenance inspection and review program by December 31, 1984 (para. 57).
5.    MED would design and implement, by March 31, 1985, cost accounting and
store inventory systems (para. 59 and 60).



M4 f D   f T                R R A N   AN                                                     S        A
--           L                                                               a kHI 0APD
ALEXANDRIADJ; f                                                                   'S_ 
IDPeA/P))  DAI F
t                                                            RA  <              e UtDY        f     A 
Th,s map has been prepmaed bV th heht/ BdaktStacP hdffomJln used ,t6/ te aem,e-
bot mdansashw   ont,t  tt h,s map do,tt,,pr,  C pyen the peet at the World bank and jta          OFls   t]'\                                                                 E
eCceptence of/sch hamnasset
ta/Pal 5atua at,ARAB  REPUBLIC  OF  EGYPT_   -1E-SgRdf4    5                                                                                   SAF
MODERNIZATION  PROJECT                                                                           hO
PUM,P REHABILITATION - LOWER EGYPT                                                                  l                        A
rrtzp rig  Sra/Eons                                                    -     Lv,dea Highway                            ARPAB REPJB IC i/P                BRASh/P
f% proposed for reconstroicron                                                    Main roads                                      EGyPT         
proposed for roplocement of pump horls                                           Rai ways                                                               \.
0 ~   ~     ,      proposed for repair of pinp tnot                                      .-oot  Rivers 
m            d~~~ Proposed new centrol wsorkshop                                         --CrasI>
m  Es,~~steng centra workshops                                                                TownsI ..;  
D5                        |e                                                       WADY
_        3,                                                3ID                                           l |           % U [) A / 4                   \ J tZ~~~~~~~~IIAY Z






CA RO
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
HELWAN                          PUMP REHABILITATION-UPPER EGYPT
I--oog Starons
/   l                                              S s    orr ce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~se d fo r reconrrrJrsJ  on
rosed for repracerert of pump umts
oroposed  for repcIr of pump  -r 1s
P opoed new cewitrl w,orkshops
roro0                                                                                                                          +          =, := = 0 - 7 > z EJs trrg ceaE o,r   e rksop
- / %J . I l :>K\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mam roalds
\ 6 , / . > f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R we,s
\       "t  "5aoo           L    F___.    I                                                                      _ Canals
o     To-ns
ao       nar                                                                                                                                   n   rozor                                rS40
SSSStSrpr' 5,,                                                                                                                                                               N.IGarl4rrnr
rt,  SaSh aos,n prensed  rt
,rOgO, Sink s StffA  SdsSo rlh
dm A AW
,   '' h-rrolSrr4TWAAbFg   \ . IER X  d                                                                                                                        0N '
_____________________ _ _l                                                                                     S ISO 0555 rSp IsO,Sr,       MS                                  ;,Sh -
s a1 'X\                                                 l\,



