Document of                                -
The World Bank                           17 7    W
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3 7 7 4 -EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 7, 1983
Regional Project Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banik authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 31, 1982)
Currency Unit;                             Egyptian Pound (LE)
LE 0.82                         =          US $1.00
LE 1.00                         =          US $1.22
LE 1.00                         =          100 Piastres (PT)
LE 1.00                         =          1,000 Milliemes (mls.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fed)                  =           1.04 acres (ac)
1 hectare (ha)                  --          2.38 feddan (fed)
1 kilometer (km)                =           0.62 miles (mi)
I meter (m)                     =           3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)              =           35.21 cubic feet (cuft)
1 metric ton (mton)             =            0.984 long ton (ton)
1 cubic meter per second                    35.21 cubic feet per
(m3/sec)                                second (cfs)
ABBREVIATIONS
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
MED            Mechanical and Electrical Department, Ministry of Irrigation
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MOI            Ministry of Irrigation
CAPMAS         Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
GOVERI'ThENT OF ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
-  Agricultural Production and Trade    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
-  Agricultural Policies,  Planning, and Development Strategy    . . 2
-  Irrigation and Drainage Systems    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
-  Previous Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector   . . . . . 6
II. THE PROJECT AREA
-  Location   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
-  Population   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    8
-  Climate    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
-  Soils    ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    8
-  Farm Size and Cropping Patterns    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
-  Water Use and Drainage   ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
III. THE PROJECT
-  Project Origin and Concept   ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  11
- Project Objectives .................... . 11
-  Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
-  Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
-  Repair Facilities    ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   15
-  Equipment and Spare Parts    ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
-  Central Control System for Nasr Canal    ...  .               .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
-  Consulting Services    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
-  Status of Engineering    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
-  Implementation   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   18
-  Cost Estimates   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
-  Financing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
-  Procurement    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
-  Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
-  Auditing and Accounts    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
-  Environmental Effect   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  23
-  Role of Women    ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   23
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission, which
visited the Arab Republic of Egypt in September/October 1981, comprising
Messrs. P. Economides and D. Hodgkinson (Bank), and F. Ruud (consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



iV.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
-  Implementing Agency   ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
-  Maintenance of Pumping Stations .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
-  Operation and Maintenance Cost .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
-  Cost Accounting System  ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  26
-  Store Inventory System  ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  26
-  Monitoring and Evaluation   ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  26
-  Completion Report   ...  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
-  Project Risks   ...  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
- Project Benefits .29
-  Beneficiaries and Repayment Capacity  . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
-  Economic Rate of Return (EER)   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
- Sensitivity Analysis .35
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..............  36



Annex I - Tables, Figures, and Grapyics                                       Page No.
Table 1  - Cost Estimates (detailed) ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  37
Table 2  - List of Project Equipment ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  40
Table 3  - EstimatecL Schedule of Disbursements ...  .          .  .    .  41
Table 4  - Pumping Station Characteristics ...  .           .  .  .  .    .  42
Table 5  - Indicative Farm Income Models ...  .           .  .  .  .  .    .  43
Table 6  - Agricultural Benefits   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  45
Table 7  - Economic Costs and Benefits   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .    .  46
Figure 1 - Increase of Maintenance Cost of Pumps with
the Time of Operation  .    ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  47
Figure 2 - Pumping Station Reliability Curve .48
Graphic 23420 - Implementation Schedule .49
Graphic 23421 - MED - Organizational Chart .50
hinnex 2 - List of Documents in the Project File .51
Maps of the Project Area (IBRD 16122 and 16123)






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Production and Trade
1.01     Agriculture accounts for about 23% of GDP and 40% of total
employment, thereby constituting the largest sector of the Egyptian economy.
Agricultural production is based upon some 6.1 million feddans (2.5 million
ha) of irrigated land, including about 5.5 million feddans of "old" alluvial
lands, virtually all of which are double cropped (with 195% average intensity)
and farmed in small plots by traditional methods.
1.02     Cropping patterns in Egypt are determined by a mix of factors,
including commodity prices, Government quota requirements, producer
preferences, soil and climate limitations, and degree of farmer
commercialization. Wheat and berseem are the principal winter crops; in
summer, cotton and rice are important cash crops, while maize and sorghum are
major subsistence crops. In a typical three-year rotation, berseem or beans
followed by cotton are cultivated in the first year; in year two, berseem is
cultivated in winter, followed by maize or rice in summer; in year three,
winter wheat is followed by maize or rice. This pattern changes in Upper
Egypt, where sugarcane is the main cash crop, replacing rice and cotton.
1.03     Egypt has under cultivation only about 0.14 feddan for each person in
the population (currently some 43 million). Although this land is intensely
cropped and yields are considerably above world averages, the boundaries of
developed land place severe limits on the growth of agricultural output.
Moreover, the failure of yields (excepting cotton) to exhibit any substantive
growth over the past decade gives cause for concern. A major factor
underlying the stagnation of agricultural productivity is the problem of
rising water tables resulting from the increase in water supplies made
available by the Aswan High Dam, combined with increasing soil salinity in
some areas. A very large drainage program is being implemented, though it is
running below the level needed to counteract the effects of waterlogging and
salinity. It is estimated that some 75% of Egypt's cultivated land will need
eventually to have drainage installed.
1.04     The faltering performance of the agricultural sector in the last
decade is evidenced by a fall in aggregate production growth rates from around
3% in the 1960s to around 2% in the 1970s. 1/ In contrast, population
1/ Aided by favorable weather conditions, agricultural growth in 1978 and
1979 was considerably above average. According to official statistics,
real value added in agriculture grew by 5.6% in 1978 and 3.9% in 1979.



-2-
is increasing at an annual rate of 2.8%, and rural to urban migration has
accelerated. This population increase, coupled with infusions of money from
Egyptians working abroad, has increased domestic food demand to a level which
greatly exceeds the present capacity of the agricultural sector.
1.05     The combination of slow agricultural growth and excess demand has
triggered sharp increases in food imports. Between 1973 and 1979, for
example, wheat and flour imports rose by 170% (representing about 75% of
domestic consumption); for maize and sugar, imports increased from negligible
amounts to 20% and 36% of domestic consumption respectively; similarly, dairy
imports have increased fourfold (to about 25% of domestic consumption), while
frozen meat imports have grown from small quantities to over 150,000 tons (25%
of domestic consumption); in the case of vegetable oil, the increase has been
on the order of 120% (approximately 70% of domestic consumption). During the
same period, the value of agricultural exports stagnated, leading to a
negative agricultural trade balance (versus a surplus prior to 1975) and
contributing to a growing deficit in the overall trade balance.
Agricultural Policies, Planning, and Development Strategy
1.06     The principal features of the Government's policies towards
agriculture were established in the first decade after the 1952 revolution.
These were to;
(a)  maintain adequate supplies of inexpensive foodstuffs for urban
consumers;
(b)  generate a trade surplus (relying heavily on agricultural
exports) to supply the foreign exchange needs of the country's
industrialization;
(c)  provide a fiscal surplus to the Government budget (through, for
example, land taxes) for transfer to other sectors; and
(d)  transfer agricultural labor to other sectors as the demand
therein expands.
1.07     Other priorities during the post-revolutionary decade included a far
reaching land reform program, leading to the redistribution of holdings among
smallholders and the reform of tenancy arrangements. Concurrently, there was
a strong drive to organize farmers into cooperatives and much emphasis put on
distribution of improved inputs, especially fertilizer. The major investment
activity relating to the sector has been construction of the High Dam at
Aswan, initiated in 1960 and commissioned in 1968. More recently, "Food
Security" has been promoted as a principal goal with a view to reduce
dependency on food imports.
1.08     In order to increase Egypt's cultivable land base and to provide
additional employment, considerable emphasis has been placed on the
reclamation of new lands. To date, however, increases in agricultural



-3-
production resulting from this investment have been disappointing, due in part
to mismanagement of the reclamation program and because of inefficient use of
the new land.  It is estimated that less than a third of the lands reclaimed
until now are actually productive.  Despite such setbacks, Government
investment plans call for continued emphasis on new lands development.
1.09     In the current Five Year Plan for 1982/83-1986/87, the share of
investment allocated for agriculture has beeni increased significantly, to 12%
of a total planned investment of about LE35 billion, with an additional 6% of
total investment allocated for fertilizer plants, and for agricultural storage
and processing facilities. A growth target of 3.3% p.a. has been set for
agriculture. Since this is well below growth targets for other sectors, the
contribution of agriculture to GDP would fall from 16% in 1981/82 to 13% by
1986/67. The planned investments are still heavily oriented towards drainage
and land reclamation programs.
1.10     The 1982/d3 land reclamation target would cover an additional 636,000
feddans. In a longer term projection, plans call for reclamation of
2.8 million feddans by the year 2000.  Such a program would require a massive
investment effort (in the order of LE 4-5 billion in 1980 prices) for
irrigation development alone, not including infrastructure costs or the
investments needed for two major canals east of the Delta. The program would
also require very large additions of irrigation water, which is envisioned as
coming from the recapture of drainage water currently lost to the sea, and
from increased flows in the Nile as a result of construction work already
underway in the Sudan under joint projects between the two Governments.
1.11     Apart from the physical and technical constraints mentioned earlier,
Egypt's agricultural development strategy has been hampered by an inconsistent
price and subsidy policy. In particular, the maintenance of artificially low
producer prices for many commodities, compulsory cropping patterns, and
price-supply controls on inputs have resulted in a substantial net taxation of
agriculture, leaving very little surplus in the sector for private
investment. These policies have caused the sector to become heavily dependent
on government for production guidance, capital, essential inputs and general
welfare.
1.12     Recent actions by Government to promote dynamism in the sector may be
summarized as follows;
(a)  a renewed emphasis on the private sector, which has been allowed
(since 1980) to enter fertilizer distribution and encouraged
through incentives and other subsidies to invest in agricultural
production and processing ventures (particularly "Food Security"
projects);



-4-
(b)  intensification of crop production on the "old lands", with
introduction of quick yielding varieties and intercropping (for
example, beans with sugarcane and onions with cotton), increased
fertilizer applications (starting in 1980), and discussions
about possible changes in officially sanctioned cropping
patterns to include higher value export crops such as vegetables;
(c)  restructuring the village cooperatives system to once again give
it a more active role in input supply and output marketing, but
with relative freedom from government controls and regulations;
and
(d) continuing support for livestock development (mainly poultry)
and, at the same time, raisi-ng the productivity of draft animals
through farm mechanization.
These actions, which are steps in the right direction, come at a time when
increased foreign exchange earnings have provided Government with an important
opportunity to undertake new agricultural policy initiatives. However, the
implementation of such initiatives is likely to be a long-term process given
the magnitude and complexity of the issues.
Irrigation and Drainage Systems
1.13     Irrigation System;  Irrigated farming in Egypt is supported by the
world's longest single river basin system. Extending some 1,200 km from Aswan
through to the Mediterranean coast, the Nile Basin system makes possible year
round productive cropping of about 6.0 million feddans.
1.14     The full completion of the High Dam at Aswan in 1968 brought a major
change in the historical system, accompanied by both benefits and challenges.
On the benefit side, the artificial lake impounded has a live capacity of
90 billion m3 for utilizable storage, 43 billion m3 for flood surcharge
and 30 billion m3 for deposit of silt. Accordingly, the reservoir operation
provides the capability for over year storage and for regulating flow patterns
to meet priority demands with regard to both quantity and timeliness, as well
as for mitigation of the historical downstream flood hazards. The potential
developed by the High Dam has enabled conversion of some 973,000 feddans from
submersion basin to year round irrigation, as well as to the reclamation of
new lands. The importance of the High Dam emerges much more strikingly from
the electrical energy benefits. It harnessed about 80% of Egypt's hydro-power
potential, and in 1978 the net hydro production of about 9,000 GWH 1/ at the
Aswan cascade accounted for about 60% of the total national power generation.
While the High Dam has achieved spectacular results in matters of flood
control, regularization of river flows and power generation, the large
additions to irrigation water supplies deriving from the dam have contributed
1/ 109 KWh.



-5-
to widespread ovcrirrigation, forcing the introduction of a countrywide
drainage program for virtually the entire irrigated area of Egypt. Another
cause for concern is that the release of silt-free water from the High Dam has
led to river bed scouring coupled with the lowering of water levels downstream
of each Upper Nile barrage. Government is attempting to correct these
problems through the rehabilitation and phased replacement of Upper Nile
barrages and by providing adequate protection from bed degradation in
seriously affected areas.
1.15     The Nile command area is served by a network of canals and irrigation
channels, the total length of which has increased from 25,000 km in 1965 to
over 30,000 km in 1980. The historic process of planning and design have
determined the system's basic technology and its means of operation. Nile
water is diverted into irrigation canals either through large regulating
structures (barrages) or through pumping. Currently there are about 460
pumping stations in the country servicing irrigation by regulating the
discharge and water levels in irrigation canals. In addition, there are about
3b0 pump units used for pumping groundwater from wells, mainly in Upper
Egypt. All these irrigation pumping facilities operate under the
responsibility of the Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) of the
Ministry of Irrigation.
1.io     The main limitations of the irrigation system include;  limited
control in the water delivery system, which operates by channel levels rather
tnlan by flow measurements; command area water duty based on past observed
diversions rather than matching crop needs; supply of water to the
distribution channels on a rotation system that alternates on-off time
periods, which are not always harmonized with the irrigation requirements of
certain crops; and the need for most farmers to lift water, rather than have
water provided by gravity flow. Aggravating the combined effect of the system
characteristics is a huge backlog of deferred maintenance. Studies also show
that available water is not always equitably distributed. In sum, the overall
system capability is not conducive to providing the old lands with the correct
amounts of water to meet crop growth needs; there is excess at times and at
places, and deficiencies at others. The basic design, operation and
inadequate maintenance place an upper limit on the performance levels which
are achievable. Government is aware of these limitations and is attaching
high priority to modernization of the irrigation system, with an emphasis on
more efficient water use at the farm level.  The proposed project is within
the framework of the general Government policy of irrigation rehabilitation
and modernization.
1.17     Drainage System;  The drainage system for evacuating surplus water
from cultivated lands comprises some 17,500 km of open drains commanding more
than five million feddans and pumping stations, the number of which has
increased from 52 in 1964/65 to 96 in 1980. Some of these pumping stations
also serve irrigation by pumping water into irrigation canals. As in the case
of irrigation, all drainage pumping stations operate under the responsibility
of the Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) of the Ministry of
Irrigation.



-6-
1.18     The drainage system, as originally conceived, is neither complete nor
efticient. Decades of perennial irrigation, aggravated by wasteful use of
surplus waters from the High Dam, have led to a rise in the water table such
that potential crop yields in large areas are constrained from slightly to
severely. In order to lower the water table and reduce the accumulation of
salts in the upper layer of tne soil, a comprehensive drainage program was
initiated in the early 1970s. The program includes (a) the construction of
open collector drains; Wb) the deepening and widening of existing open
collector drains, (c) the construction of additional drainage pumping
stations, where evacuation of water is not possible by gravity; and (d) the
installation of field drainage consisting of buried pipes.  To date, an area
of about 1.8 million teddans in Lower and Upper Egypt has been provided with
such a drainage system.  Where field drainage has been installed and
maintained properly, analyses of crop data indicate yield increases of 12-16%
resulting only from improved drainage. 1/ Encouraged by these results,
Government plans to provide field drainage in most of the old lands.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.19     World Bank operations in the agricultural sector have focussed on
assisting Government to maintain and increase production levels in the "old
lands", and, particularly, to support the drainage program in Lower and Upper
Egypt to prevent a decline in land productivity on account of rising water
tables.  This has been financed through a series of four draina e projects 2/
covering 2.8 million feddan of irrigated area. One of these projects (Nile
Delta Drainage I, Credit 181-EGT) was completed in 1981 3/ ,while
implementation of the others has slowed over the last two years, largely as a
result of management and contractor problems. The Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 830-EGT) is a pilot project to raise productivity in two
governorates by increasing the level of farm mechanization and strengthening
agricultural credit, cooperatives and extension services. The project has
suffered seriously due the weak management. Better progress is now being made
following recent reorganization and strengthening of the administration of the
various project components. The Fruit and Vegetables Project (Loan 1276-EGT)
includes financing for a seed farm, construction of the West Nubariya Drain,
credit to fruit and vegetable processors/exporters, and associated
activities. Little progress has been achieved to date on development of the
seed farm. However, following some initial delays, drain construction is
progressing satisfactorily and the project's credit component has been fully
committed. The Agroindustries Project (Credit 988-EGT)
1/  The economic rate of return of the first drainage project, financed by IDA
(Nile Delta Drainage I, Credit 181-EGT) was shown to be in excess of 25%.
2/  Credit 181-EGT (1970), Credit 393-EGT (1973), Credit 637/Loan 1285-EGT
(1976), Credit 719/Loans 1439-1440-EGT (1977).
3/  The PCR was issued July 16, 1981.



- 7-
includes financing for small and medium sized agroindustries and replacement
of municipal slaughterhouses in Cairo and Alexandria. Since effectiveness in
December 1980, the project credit component (US$45 million) has been almost
fully committed and the two main contracts for slaughterhouses have been
awarded. The New Lands Development Project - West Nubariya (Credit 1083-EGT)
was declared effective in October 1981. The project is the first involvement
of the Bank in the development of new lands. It provides financing for
reclamation of 24,000 feddans for intensive agriculture, including settlement
of 4,000 smallholders, and related services and facilities. The Fish Farming
Development Project (Credit 1111-EGT) represents the Bank's first involvement
in the fisheries subsector in Egypt. The project includes establishment of a
3,100 feddan fish farm in the West Delta area, credit for individual fish
farmers, training and related activities. The project became effective
January 25, 1982. The Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1162-EGT) to help
Government develop institutional capacity to undertake planning, feasibility,
and engineering studies related to agricultural projects has recently been
approved by the Bank. The project became effective January 15, 1982.
Finally, the Bank is the executing agency for a UNDP-financed project which
will draw up a Master Plan for Water Development and Use. This Plan is
expected to make a major contribution to water allocation and priority
decisions in all sectors.



-8-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01     The project area is the agricultural land serviced by the 30 pumping
stations to be modernized under the project. These stations are disbursed
among six governorates in Lower Egypt and three in Upper Egypt 1/ (see Maps
IBRD 16122 and 16123). The Lower Egypt stations service an area of
approximately 1,045,500 feddans, while the Upper Egypt stations cover an area
of about 88,500 feddans. Thus, the total area serviced (Upper and Lower
Egypt) is, at present, 1,134,000 feddans, representing about 20% of Egypt's
cultivated farmland.  The project area will be increased in the future by some
40,000 feddans which, at present, are either serviced by other stations or are
new areas for which the project will provide drainage pumpir)gc  A detailed
list of pumping stations and areas sexvicea is given in Annex , Table 4¢
Population
2.02     An estimated rural population  of about 2.7 million (490,000 farm
families) live in the  project area- 2/  Of these, about  455,000 fanm  families
live in the Delta and 35,000 families in Upper Egypt.  The average family
consists of 5.5 persons.
Climate
2.03     Both temperature and rainfall change perceptibly as one moves from
the coastal areas in the north to the hotter, drier south. Generally
speaking, winters are mild, with mean minimum temperatures of approximately
60 C in the Delta and 120 C in Upper Egypt. Summers are typically warm in the
daytime but mild at night; mean maximum temperatures are around 32-35° C in
the Delta and 3b-42' C in Upper Egypt. Annual rainfall averages 134 mm along
the Mediterranean coastal zone (Alexandria, Port Said, Mersa Matruh), compared
with 47 mm in the Delta (Tanta), 24 mm in Cairo, and 6.4 mm in the arid
south. In Aswan, average rainfall is a scant 1.4 mm per annum. Because of
the scarcity of rainfall, irrigation is crucial for agricultural production.
Soils
2.04     Soils in the "old lands" are predominantly alluvial, a pattern
reflected throughout the project area. In the Delta the soils are heavy
deltaic alluvius, with an average depth of 9-10 m. This depth results from
the annual deposition of suspended materials from the Nile prior to commission
1/  Lower Egypt governorates are (with number of stations to be rehabilitated
shown in parenthesis); Behera (6); Kafr Sheikh (3); Dakahliya (2); Damiet
(2j; Sharkiya (3); Qalubia (1). In Upper Egypt, the governorates are;
Fayum (3); Qena (1); Aswan (9).
2/ Based upon census data provided by CAPMAS.



-9-
of the Aswan Dam. In Upper Egypt, soils tend to be coarser and less deep.
The alluvial soils of the Delta and Nile Valley are fertile and productive,
provided adequate moisture levels are maintained. As a result of the loss of
sediments from the Nile, the application of nitrogen and phosphorous
fertilizers has become necessary to achieve high yields. Salinity problems
have been evident in areas of poor drainage.
Farm Size and Cropping Patterns
2.05     The Agrarian Reform Law limits farm size to 50 feddans for an
individual and 100 feddans for a family of three. The average farm unit,
however, is only about 3.5 feddans, with over 90% of agricultural holdings
below 5 feddans. Nearly 40% of Egypt's farms are one feddan or less. The
distribution of ownership has improved as-a result of reforms initiated after
the 1952 revolution. Nevertheless, 80% of small farmers still hold only about
47% of the total area. In addition to the small size of farms, a main
characteristic of Egyptian agriculture is fragmentation of holdings. This has
had the effect of constraining the introduction of advanced technology, such
as farm mechanization for higher yields. Since the early sixties, however,
government has attempted to deal with this problem by grouping individual
plots into large, village level crop rotation blocks, without affecting the
private ownership of the land.
2.06     Most farmers rotate their crops according to a two or three year
cycle, with the latter most common. The rotation is followed to promote
balanced soil fertility and to provide a mixture of products for the varying
purposes in any one year. Another rationale for rotation is pest control.
The cotton leaf worm is a major problem and initial pest populations are kept
low if cotton does not follow cotton on the same land and if planting of the
alternate winter crop (berseem) is delayed. Cropping intensity is high in
Egypt, as is the variety of crops produced. Typical cropping models for the
Lower and Upper Egypt project areas are presented below. (Figures in
parentheses represent percentages of farm area planted to each crop).
LOWER EGYPT                                    UPPER EGYPT
Winter Season          Summer Season        Winter Season           Summer Season
Short Berseem (30)   Cotton    (30)         Beans/lentils (10)   Maize        (20)
Long Berseem  (40)   Rice         (50)      Long Berseem  (10)   Oilseeds  (10)
Wheat          (25)   Maize       (15)      Wheat           (35)   Sorghum   (20)
Beans           (5)   Vegetables (5)              ---- Sugarcane (45) ----------
Average Crop Intensity = 200                Average Crop Intensity = 150



-10-
2.07     The gross value of animal production is considerably lower than that
of crop production. In Lower Egypt, milk and meat production account for
about one third of gross income on a three-feddan farm. In Upper Egypt, this
figure is reduced to about 10% of total gross income.  Most farm operations
are heavily dependent upon animals for draft power. Farmland must, therefore,
be allocated to both fodder and food crops, and the choice among crops is
influenced by whether they permit the joint production of by-products suitable
for animal feed, such as straw.
Water Use and Drainage.
2.08     The limitations of the irrigation and drainage systems of the "old
lands" (paras 1.16 and 1.18) apply entirely to the project area. The present
system constrains the yields of certain crops (e.g. maize in summer) due to
moisture stress. On the other hand, farmers tend to overirrigate during the
"on" period in anticipation of the "off" period. As a result, water tables
rise and nutrient leaching increases, leading to waterlogging, salinity
problems, and reduced crop yields. Water demand for irrigation or drainage is
determined by the local authorities of the Ministry of Irrigation on the basis
ot past observations. For irrigation, the peak demand varies from 25 to
40 m3 per feddan per day, depending on climatic conditions, cropping pattern
(e.g. with or without rice) and the efficiency of the irrigation system. In
general, higher figures are used in Upper Egypt and in areas of the Delta
where rice is included in the rotation. For drainage the peak demand is
estimated at 35 to 40% of the peak irrigation demand.



-11-
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Concept
3.O1     The project originated from the Irrigation Subsector Review 1/and its
recommendation that first priority be given to the rehabilitation of aging
pumping stations serving irrigation and drainage, in order to secure
continuation of their proper operation and to safeguard present agricultural
production.  A Bank identification mission discussed the pump rehabilitation
program with officials of the Ministry of Irrigation in March 1981. Project
preparation was carried out by a Bank/FAO-CP mission which visited Egypt in
June 1981. Following the mission's recommendation, a technical committee was
established within the Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) of the
Ministry of Irrigation to prepare detailed proposals for the rehabilitation of
selected pumping stations and for establishment of new repair facilitieso
3.02     The appraisal mission visited Egypt from September 9 to October 5,
1981. At appraisal, government proposals for pump rehabilitation and
establishment of new workshops were reviewed and the decision was made to
liclude in the project provisions for strengthening the institutions
responsible for operating and maintaining in good condition the pumping
stations in Egypt.
3.03.    A similar proiect, limited to Upper Egypt, is being implemented in
Upper Egypt with USAID ti:-'ncial assistance.  The USAID project became
effective in September 1977 and includes the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of 37 irrigation pw-ring stations scattered between Beni Suef
and Aswan with provision of some work-'-op equipment. The appraisal mission
carefully examined the USAID project with 5 view to closely coordinating it
witlh tiie provisions of the proposed project. FflrCect formulation and
procurement arrangements take into account experience gained by the USAID
project.
Project Objectives
3.04     The project is designed to achieve two major objectives;
(a)  to rehabilitate 30 irrigation and drainage pumping stations
servicing at present about 1,134,000 feddans, so that any
harmful effect of pump failures on crops can be avoided, and to
reduce the operation and maintenance cost of these stations;
(b)  to strengthen the maintenance capabilities of the institution
responsible for operating pumping stations in Egypt by
establishing a modern pump maintenance system, a spare part
inventory control system, and a cost accounting system.
1/  IBRD Report No.3371-EGT, March 5, 1981.



-12-
oect Description
3.05     The project will consist of the components listed below;
(a) Rehabilitation of 30 pumping stations as follows;
(i) construction of a new pumping station at Bayara;
(ii) replacement of pump units and other equipment in fourteen
other stations; and
(iii) provision of spare parts for the rehabilitation of 15
additional stations;
(b) provision of 3 central workshops and 15 regional workshops and
instruments for the establishment of 6 electrical laboratories
to strengthen the repair facilities of MED and assure
appropriate maintenance of pump units;
(c) provision of spare parts in emergency cases for pumping stations
other than those to be rehabilitated under (a) above; vehicles,
mobile cranes, forklifts; and a central control system for the 5
successive rumping stations of the Nasr Canal;
(d) provision of staff houses for workshop technicians and pump
operators; and
(e) provision of technical assistance to design a pump maintenance
systein, to establish separate project accounts and a cost
accounting system and to design and establish a store inventory
control system.
Rehabilitation of Pumping-stations
3.06     The Bank has already been involved in the construction and
rehabilitation of pumping stations in Egypt as components of previous Bank
projects. Thus, under the Nile Delta Drainage I Project (C-181), 11 new
drainage pumping stations, two workshops, and one transformer substation were
provided; all the above facilities were completed in 1979 and are now
operational. Under the Upper Egypt Drainage I Project (C-393), four new
drainage pumping stations were provided out of which two were completed in
1981 and the other two are under construction. Under the Upper Egypt Drainage
II Project (C-637/L-1285) one drainage pumping station has been
rehabilitated. Finally, under the Nile Delta Drainage II Project
(C-719/L-1439-40), four new pumping stations were provided (now under
construction) and two stations were rehabilitated.
3.07     MED has prepared a plan covering the pump rehabilitation needs of the
country until the year 2,000. The first phase of this plan, covering needs
until 1987, calls for the construction or rehabilitation of 67 pumping
stations, of which 37 stations are covered with the USAID financed project.
Rehabilitation of the remaining 30 pumping stations will be the subject of the
present World Bank project.



-13-
3.08     Of the 30 pumping stations to be rehabilitated under the project, 19
service irrigation, 9 service drainage, and the remaining 2 service both
irrigation and drainage. The total area serviced by these stations is
1,134,000 feddans, representing about one fifth of the total cultivated area
in Egypt. The age of the stations, at the time of their rehabilitation, will
be between 17 and 49 years with an average of 26.4 years. The age of the
pumping stations was not the only factor taken into consideration to determine
the need for rehabilitation. Poor quality of the original machinery, lack of
spaxy parts, inappropriate maintenance, excessive hours of daily operation,
and the presence of corrosive water are other factors which have made
rehabilitation necessary. Table 4 in Annex 1 shows the main characteristics
of the pumping stations proposed for rehabilitation, and Maps IBRD 16122 and
16123 show their locations.
3.09     Existing pumping stations with large discharges and low lifts
(statior)s mainly in Lower Egypt) are equipped with low speed propellor units
of the inclined type, driven usually through a reduction gear box. This
arrangement allows the use of smaller high speed electrical motors which
requ--,e less space and save on station construction.  Pumping stations with
Jowe-- dFs.harges and higher heads (stations mainly in Upper Egypt) typically
use vertical or horizontal turbine pumps with or without gear boxes. Most of
the ptimping stations proposed for rehabilitation have inoperative units and
are barely able to meet pumping demands. In addition to the general problem
of increases in wearing ring clearance and blade tip clearance, some of the
pumps have suffered extensive cavitation and corrosion damage. Some of the
motors may have been underdesigned and suffer deterioration from excessive
overheating of the windings. The general condition of switchgears, controls,
and starting equipment is typical of older equipment reaching the limit of
useful life. A number of transformers need replacement either due to age and
deterioration of winding insulation, or because of inadequate capacity.
Suction seal gates and discharge flap gates, along with the hoists and
trashracks, are in generally poor condition and need repair or replacement.
The power supply of a few stations is inadequate and frequent power
interruptions occur. What little recording and monitoring equipment is found
in the stations is, in most cases, inoperable. This situation results in
substantially lower efficiency of the pump units and in increased maintenance
cost. It could also result in the inability to meet demands in the near
future with very serious possible effects on the crops.
3.10     A complete new irrigation pumping station will be needed at Bayara.
The existing old station in this location has suffered serious structural
damage and cannot be rehabilitated.
3.1l     Replacement of the entire pump units, including switchgears and
controls, and in some cases transformers, will be required in 14 pumping
stations. It is considered that existing pump units in these stations are
either too old to be repaired or spare parts are not available. In order to
avoid costly changes in existing pumping buildings, pumps similar to those
presently installed are proposed. As a result, only slight modifications in
the internal design of the stations may be required. If radically different
proposals are received from manufacturers, these will be evaluated to
determine which alternative would provide the most economical solution, taking
into account any additional cost for civil works.



-14-
3.12     General restorative repair of existing units is proposed for the
remaining 15 stations. The type of repair differs from station to station
according to the condition of the pump units and other equipment. The
objective is to prolong the life of these pump units and to restore as much as
possible their original efficiency and reliability. Estimates of repair works
and spare parts requirements have been prepared by the Government for each of
these pumping stations. Final costed lists of spare parts will be prepared by
MED in consultation with the manufacturers of the original pump units.
3.13     The rehabilitation of all 30 pumping stations will include the re^,p
or replacement of suction seal gates and discharge flap gates along with tbc
hoists and the trashracks.  A provision will also be made for the repair of
buildings and other civil works in all stations.  In all stations where ns;'v
pump units will be installed the following instruments will be included for
improving the monitoring of operation;
(a) discharge measuring device;
(b) total operating time recorder;
(c) suction and discharge water level recorders;
(d) kilowatt-hour chart recorders; and
(e) vibration monitoring device.
The installation of this equipment will enable those responsible for plant
operation to determine unit and station discharge performance, the total
operation time for each unit, water level records for plant operation, the
magnitude and time history of power demands, and early warning of possible
maintenance problems caused by vibrating pumps or motors. Finally, the
project will provide spare parts worth about 15% of the value of the new pump
units.
3.14     The capacity of each pumping station operating in the country has
been determined on the basis of area serviced, peak water demand per feddan,
and expected hours per day of operation of the pump units during the peak
period. The capacity of the pumping stations for which rehabilitation is
proposed has been revised on the basis of the experience obtained from their
long operation. An increase in capacity is proposed for five stations where
the existing units were found to be insufficient to cover the irrigation
demand, either because new areas were added to the original area serviced by
the station or because of an increase in rice cultivation. No increase in
capacity was found necessary for the remaining pumping stations. Table 4 in
Annex 1 shows the present and future capacity of the pumping stations included
in the project.
3.15     Power supply for a few drainage stations (Faraskur, Gharak 1,
Gharak 2, and Gharak 3) is unreliable. Because of inadequate power
transmission lines, there are substantial outages of power which result in
poor performance of the stations with obvious adverse effect on crops.
Government has included in its investment program for the Rural
Electrification Authority 26 km of new 11 KV transmission lines which will
ensure adequate power supply in these stations. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that these lines will be installed by the Government before
December 31, 1985.



-15-
Kepair Facilities
3.ib     Workshops.  Three central workshops will be provided under the
project at the directorates of East Delta (El Wady), Qena (Nag Hamadi), and
Aswan (Komombo). These three new central workshops, together with the
existing four at the Directorates of West Delta (Damanhur), Middle Delta (Kafr
Sheikh), Middle Egypt (Etsa), and West Nubariya (Amriya) will provide heavy
maintenance for all the pumping plants run by the Ministry of Irrigation (over
80(). They will provide a level of capability that does not exist at the
present time for repair of large shafts, pump impellors, wearing rings, and
major pump parts. The project will also provide 15 regional workshops which,
together with the existing 30 regional workshops, will be distributed to serve
the pumping stations in each district. Most ordinary repairs and maintenance
of the pumps at the site will be performed with the assistance of personnel
and equipment from these regional workshops. The establishment of this system
of well equipped workshops, in conjunction with the design of a modern
maintenance system (para 4.05) and other organizational measures (para 4.06),
should improve substantially the maintenance capability of the MED and lead to
tne better performance and longer life of all pumping facilities under this
Department.
3.17     A detailed list of the equipment required for the establishment of
the above workshops has been prepared. The equipment consists of lathes,
drilling machines, milling machines, welders, grinders, power saws, and other
ancillary items required for well equipped shops. Spare parts for the above
machinery, equal to 10% of its value, will also be procured. Particular care
was taken to ensure that the equipment proposed for these workshops does not
duplicate similar equipment being supplied under the USAID irrigation pumping
project. New buildings will be required for two central and twelve regional
workshops, while existing buildings, after some repair, will be used for the
remaining workshops. Provision was also made for the construction of about 90
flats at the workshop sites to be used by the engineers and mechanics working
there. The list of workshop equipment and other information concerning the
establishment of the workshops is in the project file.
3.18     Electrical Laboratories.  The project will finance the procurement of
equipment (instruments) for the establishment of electrical laboratories in
each MED directorate. One of these laboratories in the West Delta (Mansura)
already exists. Similar laboratories will be established in the other six
directorates. Each laboratory will be responsible for the testing,
calibration, and repair of the electrical equipment of all the pumping
stations of the directorate. The laboratories will be housed in existing
buildings.  Iwelve electrical engineers and a number of technicians will be
recruited by the MED for staffing the six new laboratories. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations.



-16-
Equipment and Spare Parts
3.19     Vehicles.  Vehicles and motorcycles will be provided for the
directorates and for each pumping station and workshop to improve mobility for
inspection and maintenance engineers, mechanics, and pump operators. A number
of trucks will be included for the transportation of spare parts. These
items, together with a special radio-telephone system, being furnished by
USAID for all pumping stations, should improve operation and maintenance
activities by allowing direct communication and immediate access between
central and regional workshops and each pumping plant.
3.20     Mobile Cranes and Forklifts.  A number of mobile cranes and forklifts
will be provided under the project to facilitate the handling of heavy items
in the pumping stations and workshops. A detailed list of all project
equipment, with cost estimates, is included in Annex 1, Table 2.
3.21     Spare Parts.  The project will provide financing to procure, in cases
of emergency, spare parts and other equipment for pumping stations outside the
project area. This financing would be in addition to funds allocated for the
rehabilitation of the thirty pumping stations specified in the project loan
agreement.
Central Control System for Nasr Canal
3.22     The Nasr Canal will ultimately provide irrigation to an area of about
270,000 feddans in the West Nubariya region . This area includes the 24,000
feddans of the New Land Development Project, financed by IDA (Credit
1083-EGT). The designed capacity of the canal is 118 m/sec. There will be
five successive large pumping stations in the canal, of which the first three
are operating and the remaining two are under construction and expected to be
completed by end of 1983. A central control system for the five successive
pumping stations will be required in the future to facilitate coordination of
pumping operations. Without such a system there is a risk of canal surges,
damage to canal banks and linings, and malfunctioning of pumping plant
equipment.
3.23     The central control system to be provided under the proposed project
will be installed at pumping station No.3. The system will include a
telephone line connecting the five stations to the center. Pump operation and
water level indicators will be installed in the center to provide the
principal engineer supervising the five plants with continuous information on
the number of units operating in each station and the upstream and downstream
levels of water in the canal. Because of the hazard of strong sandstorms in
the western desert, the telephone line and indicator cables will be installed
underground.



-17-
Consulting Services
3.24      The project will finance the services of consultants to MED for the
following tasks;
(a) to design maintenance schedules to be applied to all pumping
stations. Emphasis will be given to preventive maintenance
designed to reduce wear and probability of damage or breakdown.
Twelve manmonths of consultancy time will be required for this
task;
(b) to design and establish separate project accounts and a cost
accounting system. Separate project accounts will be
established within MED to reflect expenditures and sources of
funds in respect to project implementation. The cost accounting
system will be designed to determine the actual operation and
maintenance cost for each pumping station. Sixteen mnanmonths of
consultancy time will be required; and
(c) to design and establish a store inventory control system to
reflect availability and distribution of spare parts and to
forecast purchase requirements. Twelve manmonths of consultancy
time will be required.
3.25      All consultants will be appointed before March 31, 1984, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
Status of Engineering
3.2b      Bayara Pumping Station.  Soil investigations for the new building at
Bayara will be carried out by the Soil Mechanics Institute and are expected to
be completed by end of May 1983. Drawings, technical specifications, and
tender documents will be prepared by MED by end of June 1983. The issuing of
tender of the new station is expected to take place immediately after Bank
approval of the loan. Final plans for the new building will be prepared by
the supplier of the pump units according to the specifications.
3.27      Replacement of Pump Units in 14 Stations.  Drawings of the existing
buildings and specifications and tender documents for the new pump units will
be prepared by MED by the end of May 1983. Tender is expected to be issued
immediately after Bank approval of the loan.
3.28      Repair of Pump Units in 15 Stations.  Preliminary lists with
approximate value of spare parts required for each station have been prepared
by MED. The lists and prices of the spare parts will be revised and finalized
in consultation with the suppliers of the original pump units by
July 31, 1983.  Signing of contracts will take place immediately after loan
effectiveness.



-18-
3.29     WorKshops.  Drawings, specitications, and Lender documents for new
builaings and specifications and tender documents for workshop equipment will
be prepared by MEJ by August 1983.  Tenders for buildings (local) and for
procurement of equipment (1CB) will be issued immediately after Bank approval
or tiie loan.
3.30      Procurement of Equipment.   (Laboratory equipment, vehicles, cranes,
and torkitfts). Specifications and tender documents will be prepared by MED
by June -0, l9d3. Tenders will be issued immediately after Bank approval of
the loan.
3.31      Procurement and Installation of Central Control System for Nasr
Uanai. The system will not be required before end 1985. Specifications and
tender documents will be prepared by MED in collaboration with the Irrigation
Projects Department of the Mlinistry of Irrigation by December 31, 1983.
Tender will be issued two months later.
implementation
3.32      The project will be implemented over a period of five years.  Award
of contract for construction of building for the Bayara pumping station is
expected by Marcih 1984. Construction will begin July 1984 and be completed by
June 1988. Installation and testing of pump units will overlap with
construction of building and will be completed six months later. Installation
of replacement pump units in 14 stations will begin January 1986 and be
compLeted by June 1988. Repair of pump units in 15 stations will begin
January 1985 and be completed by July 1987. Construction of buildings for new
workshops will begin August 1984 and be completed by December 1985.
Installation of workshop equipment will start January 1985 and be completed
July i996.  Procurement of equipment (mobile pump units, laboratory equipment,
vehicles, cranes, and forklifts) will be completed by December 1984.
insLaalatlon of the central control system in Nasr Canal will begin in
July 1984 and be completed within six months. Staff houses will be
constructed along with the rehabilitation of pumping stations, and
construction of new workshops.  Graphic 23420 in Annrex 1 shows the
implementation schedule of the main project works.
Cost Estimates
3.33      The total project cost including 0.25% front-end fee is estimated at
LE5b.1 million (Ub $68.5 million) including physical and price contingencies.
Ou  this cost, -LE2.0 million (US $27.0 million) represents local cost and
LE34.i million (US $41.5 million) is foreign exchange.  Cost estimates are
based on December 1982 prices. Customs duties for imported equipment are
estimated at LE 5.2 million (US$ 6.4 million) and are shown separately in the
project cost estimates. Civil works cost estimates include 5% taxes
tincoporated in the local cost) and are derived from quantities and unit rates
obtained from similar works in Egypt. Equipment cost estimates are based on
unit prices of similar equipment procured recently and on price quotations
from suppliers. Consultants' services are estimated to require about 40 man



-19-
months. The average cost is expected to be about US $10,000 per man month and
includes fees, travel, and allowances. Physical contingencies have been
provided at 15%, except for some equipment (vehicles, laboratory equipment,
and other minor items) for which 10% physical contingencies were used. Price
contingency estimates assume an increase in local currency costs of 14% in
1983, 13% in 1984, 12% in 1985, 11% in 1986, and 10% per annum thereafter
(based on expected domestic inflation) and in foreign exchange costs of 8.5%
in 1983, 7.5% per annum in 1984-86, and 6% per annum thereafter.  Project cost
estimaates are summarized in the table below and detailed in Annex 1, Table 1.
Cost Estimates (Summary)
LE million                  US $ million           Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total         Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
Cost    Cost    Cost          Cost    Cost    Cost           %
Pumping Station Rehab.   8.2    19.5    27.7             10.0    23.8    33.8           70
Workshops                   1.6      0.7     2.3          1.9      0.8      2.7         30
Equipment & Vehicles       -         1.6      1.6         -        2.0      2.0        100
Control Syst.Nasr Canal  0.2        0.9      1.1          0.3      1.0     1.3          77
Consultants                   -     0.3      0.3            -      0.4     0.4         100
Total Base Cost        10.0    23.0    33.0          12.2    28.0    40.2           70
Phys.Contingencies    1.5        3.3      4.8         1.9      4.1      6.0         68
Price Contingencies   5.3        7.7    13.0          6.5      9.3    15.8          59
TOTAL COST             16.8    34.0    50.8          20.6    41.4    62.0           67
Customs Duties              5.2     -        5.2          6.4      -        6.4          -
Front-end Fee (0.25%)         -     0.1      0.1            -      0.1      0.1        100
GRAND TOTAL            22.0    34.1    56.1          27.0    41.5    68.5           60
NOTES;  Discrepancies due to rounding
Fee to be actually charged; US $103,491.
Financing
3.34      The proposed Bank loan of US $41.5 million will finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project, including the 0.25% front-end fee ($103,491)
which Government has requested to be financed by the Bank. All local currency
expenditures, including customs duties for imported equipment, will be
financed by the Government. The proposed financing plan is shown below;
Amount
LE million  US $ million        Percent
Bank                              34.1            41.5            60
Government                        22.0            27.0            40
TOTAL                             56.1            68.5          100



-20-
3.35     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
will provide, promptly as needed, the funds required for the implementation of
the project.
Procurement
3.36     Construction of the new Bayara pumping station will be the subject of
a "turn key" international tender according to Bank guidelines. The principal
contractor will be either the equipment supplier or the contractor of civil
works. Detailed building design will be prepared by the principal contractor
on the basis of the site and machinery requirements. A clause will be
included in the tender documents that bids with alternative design solutions,
including solutions with outdoor or semi-outdoor buildings, will be accepted
and considered in the bid evaluation process.  Evaluation will be based, inter
alia, on the overall investment cost (including structures) and guaranteed
performance of pump units.  These evaluation principles will be elaborated in
tne tender documents. The total value of this tender is estimated at US $12.5
million (with physical and price contingencies US $19.8 million), of which
US $5.5 million are local cost (with contingencies US $9.4 million) and
US $7.0 million foreign cost (with contingencies US $10.4 million).
3.37     The procurement and installation of replacement pump units and other
equipment in 14 existing stations will be the subject of an international
tender, for which alternative design solutions would also be accepted. The
value of this tender is estimated at US $14.0 million (with physical and price
contingencies US $20.9 million) of which US $1.3 million (with contingencies
US i 2.1 million) is local cost and US $12.7 million (with contingencies
US $ 18.8 million) foreign cost.
3.38     Spare parts of an estimated value of US $3.5 million (with physical
and price contingencies US $5.2 million) will be required for the repair of
pump units and other equipment in 15 stations and for the repairs, in
emergency cases, of other stations outside the project area. Some of the
above items, such as transformers, of an estimated value of US $0.4 million
(with contingencies US $0.6 million) will be procured through ICB as part of
the contract for the procurement of new pump units (para 3.37). The remaining
items, which consist mainly of non-generic parts for pumps and motors of an
estimated value of US $3.1 million (with contingencies US $4.b million) will
be procured directly from the original manufacturers of pumps, on the basis of
negotiated prices.
3.39     Workshop equipment, vehicles, cranes, forklifts, laboratory
equipment, and equipment for the central control system of the Nasr Canal, of
a total estimated value of US $2.9 million (with contingencies
US $4.1 million) would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages and procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Local manufacturers would be allowed a 15% margin or the actual customs duty,
whichever is lower. An exception to ICB would apply to small contracts of up
to US $100,000 equivalent, wihich may be awarded on a competitive basis to
reliable suppliers after quotations have been obtained from at least three
such suppliers, whenever practicable. The aggregate expenditure for items so
procured will not exceed US $500,000 equivalent.



-21-
3.40     Civil works for workshop buildings, repair of existing pumping
station buildings, installation of central control systems along Nasr Canal
and for staff houses of an estimated value of US $2.8 million (with
contingencies US $4.9 million) will be financed by the Government and awarded
to local contractors following local procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank.
3.41     Consultants for the various forms of technical assistance under the
project (para 3.23) with a total cost of US $0.4 million (US $0.5 million with
contingencies) will be engaged in accordance with the Loan Agreement and the
Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. 1/
3.42     Contract Review.  Prior review of procurement documentation by the
Bank will be undertaken for bidding packages (a) for the construction of the
new Bayara pumping station (para 3.36), (b) for procurement and installation
of new pump units (para 3.37), and (c) for procurement of all other goods over
US$ 1.0 million equivalent. This review will result in a coverage of about
84% of the total estimated value of all contracts. The balance of contracts
will be subject to random post review by the Bank after contract award.
3.43       Assurances on the procurement procedures noted above were obtained
at negotiations.
Disbursement
3.44     The proposed project features an accelerated disbursement period of
five years, which is considerably shorter than the regional sectoral average
of eight years. The considerations supporting the proposed disbursement
profile are as follows;
(a) the project will be implemented by a single agency which has long
experience in international tendering;
(b) the entire Bank loan will be used for procurement of equipment and
for consultants, items which are generally disbursed more rapidly
than civil works;
(c) all tenders for procurement of equipment will be prepared in advance
and be issued immediately after project approval by the Bank;
1/ As specified in Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, August 1981.



-22-
(d)  contracts for procurement of spare parts will be negotiated with the
pump manufacturers and could be concluded before approval of the
loan. This will accelerate disbursement at the early stage of
project implementation;
(e)  experience from previous Bank financed projects with pumping station
components showed that the time lapse between award and delivery of
new pump units is 22 months. Assuming that the award occurs six
months after project approval, the amount that can be disbursed
within 36 months from project effectiveness will be about 70% of the
total loan. This is reflected in the proposed disbursement profile;
and
(f)  installation of machinery in the pumping stations can start
immediately after delivery. Only in one case, where new building is
required, is the installation tied to building construction progress.
3.45     The Bank loan of US $41.5 million will be disbursed over a period of
five years in accordance with the following estimated disbursement schedule
(details in Table 3, Annex 1).
Bank Fiscal Year
Disbursements    1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
-----US   million-------------
annual             2.8    8.4   11.7   11.0    6.0    1.6
Cumulative         2.8   11.2   22.9   33.9   39.9   41.5
Withdrawal of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be in accordance with the
following percentages;
(a)  Rehabilitation of pumping stations and supplementary spare parts;
100% of foreign expenditures;
(b)  For procurement of equipment for workshops, vehicles, laboratory
equipment, equipment for the central control system Nasr Canal, and
other equipment; 100% of foreign expenditures or 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory, or 80% of local expenditures of imported
items procured locally;
(c) For consultancy services: 100% of cost.
Auditing and Accounts
3.46     The Ministry of Irrigation, like all other Government agencies in
Egypt, has an internal audit department which monitors accounts and authorizes
payments. In addition, the High Authority for Accounting of the Parliament



-23-
maintains permanent staff within the Ministries who carry out continuous
audits on a sample basis. The Administration and Finance section of MED would
establish and maintain separate accounts for the project to reflect, in
accordance with appropriate accounting practices, the operations, resources,
and expenditures in respect of the project. These accounts would be audited
annually by an outside, independent auditing organization acceptable to the
Bank. The General Organization for Auditing, which is auditing the ongoing
Bank financed drainage projects, has proven to be satisfactory. Annual audit
reports would be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year. Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations.
Environmental Effect
3.47     The project is expected to have a positive impact on the physical
environment and population of areas to be serviced by modernized irrigation
pumping facilities. In the case of drainage systems, increased pump
efficiency would help keep the water table at low levels, thereby promoting
good hygienic conditions in the project area. The living conditions and
social environment of pumping station staff would be improved by the provision
of houses, water supply, and electrification. Finally, the project would lead
to increased safety at pumping stations through the provision of automatic
monitoring instruments, incorporation of safety features in station design,
and improved maintenance procedures.
Role of Women
3.48     The project is not designed to substantially alter the economic or
social roles of women. Nevertheless, some changes can be expected in the
areas to be served by modernized pumping stations as a result of increased
agricultural productivity and a higher standard of living. As noted elsewhere
in this report, specific project related benefits are expected to include
improved health, more and better food, and improved nutrition. These
benefits would become available to all people in the project area, including
women.



-24-
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementing Agency
4.01     The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt would be the Borrower
under the project. The Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) of the
Ministry of irrigation would be the implementing agency of the project. This
department is responsible for design, procurement, installation, operation,
and maintenance of all major pumping facilities serving agriculture in the
country. The Department was established in 1920 and includes among its staff
experienced mechanical and electrical engineers capable of carrying out these
activities. At Cairo, MED comprises four sections: the Projects Section, the
FLnancial and Administration Section, and two Operation and Maintenance
Sections, one for Lower Egypt and one for Upper Egypt. In the field, MED
comprises seven directorates, four in Lower Egypt and three in Upper Egypt.
Each directorate comprises a number of districts, each of which is responsible
for the operation and maintenance of three to five pumping stations. The
organizational chart of MED is shown in Annex 1, Graphic 23421.
4.02     In the past, MED has placed insufficient emphasis on the supervision
of the construction of pump buildings and their maintenance. It is now
recognizing thie importance of this activity and has agreed to strengthen the
Civil Works Unit (under the Projects Section). For the supervision of the
construction work, MED will assign an adequate number of experienced civil
engineers or will contract this activity with a local consulting firm. For
the maintenance of civil works, civil engineers would be appointed in each
directorate to carry out routine maintenance activities. These engineers will
inspect each station at least once a year and will have responsibility for the
preparation of annual maintenance programs, the latter to be reviewed and
approved by MED, Cairo. Assurances on the above will be obtained at
negotiations.
4.03     A task force has already been established within MED for the
preparation of the project. This task force would be adequately staffed and
maintained to carry out the following activities during the project
implementation period;
(a) preparing tender documents for procurement of equipment and
civil works;
(b) evaluating of bids;
(c) maintaining separate project accounts;
(d) preparing applications for withdrawal from the Bank loan; and
(e)  preparing and submitting to the Bank quarterly progress reports,
monitoring and evaluation reports, and the project completion
report.
Coordination of task force activities would be the responsibility of the
Projects Section Undersecretary of MED. Thie proposed task force is envisioned



-25-
as a tool to facilitate project implementation. However, the main
responsibility for the project would remain with the appropriate MED sections,
at headquarters and at the regional directorates. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the task force, already established, will be adequately
staffed and maintained during the entire period of project implementation.
Maintenance of Pumping Stations
4.04     Maintenance of the pumping stations is the responsibility of the
regional offices of MED. Each directorate has a chief maintenance engineer on
its staff who is responsible for following the conduct and progress of the
ongoing maintenance program in his directorate. In each district, there is a
maintenance engineer who is charged with the requirement to maintain the pump
units of the stations belonging to his district (usually four to five). The
maintenance engineer determines the program of maintenance work for the
stations under his jurisdiction and reports to the directorate on progress of
work. The directorate chief maintenance engineer sends these reports through
the chief of the directorate to MED in Cairo. At the present time, no formal
inspection and review of maintenance is done. While the pumping units are
marginally maintained in order to continue operation, in general they suffer
from inadequate preventive maintenance, which comprises a series of
inspection, lubrication, and repair operations performed on a predetermined
schedule to correct initial causes of equipment failures. Civil works
maintenance is also badly neglected.
4.05     A major improvement in the quality of pumping station maintenance is
expected to be made through the provision of additional workshops and
electrical laboratories described in paras 3.16 and 3.18. In addition, MED
will secure the services of a specialist to design maintenance schedules, to
be applied to all pumping stations (para 3.24). Emphasis will be given to
preventive maintenance designed to reduce wear and the probability of damage
or breakdown. Lubrication, cavitation repair, insulation tests, clearance
monitoring of bearings and wearing rings, and cleaning and painting of seal
gates and trashracks are some examples of preventive maintenance. The
maintenance schedules will also include restorative maintenance principles to
be introduced in consultation with equipment manufacturers. These measures
will be combined with the timely allocation of the required funds for
operation and maintenance cost by Government. Assurances on the design and
implementation of maintenance schedules and on the timely allocation of O&M
funds were obtained at negotiations.
4.06     Additional organizational arrangements will be made to ensure that
maintenance inspection and review will become a formal responsibility of MED
and, in fact, carried out on a country-wide basis at regular intervals. To
this effect, an effective maintenance inspection and review program will be
established taking into account the maintenance specialist's recommendations.
The program, which will apply to the more than 800 pumping stations under MED
control, will be under the direct supervision of the two Undersecretaries for
Operation and Maintenance in Lower and Upper Egypt. Assurances on the above
were obtained at negotiations.



-26-
Operation and Maintenance Cost
4.07     The average annual cost for operation and maintenance of the 30
pumping stations, after rehabilitation, will be approximately LE 1,264,000
(US $1,540,000) which corresponds to about LE 1.0 (US $1.25) per feddan
serviced. 1/ About 58% of this cost is for energy (calculated at a financial
price of LE 0.009 per KWh), 25% for salaries, 15% for spare parts and
maintenance, and 2% for oil and grease. This cost would be covered by the
annual budget of MED in accordance with present arrangements. If the energy
cost is calculated at the economic price of LE 0.05 (US $0.06) per KWh the
total average annual cost for operation and maintenance of the 30 stations
would be LE 4,632,000 (US $5,650,000) which corresponds to about LE 3.66
(US $4.5) per feddan serviced.
Cost Accounting System
4.08     At present, no adequate accounting system exists in MED to provide
information on the actual expenditures for the operation and maintenance of
each pumping station. The costs of operating workshops, of mechanics and
technicians, and of spare parts are not appropriately charged to the
stations. As a result, the present O&M cost data collected by MED are not
accurate. To remedy this situation, an appropriate cost accounting system
will be established within MED.  The system will provide accurate information
for budgetary planning, and will give early warning of cost overruns at
individual pumping stations. The system will be designed and implemented with
the assistance of consultants (para 3.24). Assurances for the establishment
of the cost accounting system within MED before March 31, 1985, were obtained
at negotiations.
Store Inventory System
4.09     MED operates a number of stores of spare parts and expendable
materials required for pumping stations. Under the present store system,
storekeepers maintain simple books at each store showing acquisition and
disposition of various items. Casual inspections take place occasionally to
check the accuracy of the store books. The system does not provide any
information on the availability and distribution of spare parts and materials
among the stores and does not allow forecasting of purchase requirements. To
overcome this difficulty, a store inventory control system will be designed
and implemented with the assistance of the consultant (para 3.24). Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that MED will establish an appropriate store
inventory control system before March 31, 1985.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.10     The project will introduce monitoring systems to provide for timely
and accurate collection of information on physical and financial indicators
1/ Excluding pump replacement cost.



-27-
measuring performance of the pumping stations and for early warning on
maintenance problems. The instruments proposed to be installed in each
pumping station (para 3.13) will provide information on station performance,
on the total operation time for each pump unit, on power demands and on
possible maintenance problems.  The cost accounting system proposed
(para 4.08) will provide information on the actual operation and maintenance
cost of each station. And the store inventory control system (para 4.09) will
provide intormation on the availability and distribution of spare parts and
will help in the forecast of purchase requirements. All this information will
considerably improve the quality of input data used by MED in their computer
program introduced with USAID assistance. MED will prepare annually a
wonitoring and evaluation report based on an analysis of the above data, copy
. which will be sent to the Bank.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the above monitoring activities will be carried out by MED and that
annual monitoring reports will be sent to the Bank within six months of the
end of each reporting year.
Completion Report
4.11     MED will prepare within six months of the Loan Closing Date a
completion report on the execution and initial operation of the project, its
cost, and the benefits derived. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.
Project Risks
4.12     There are three areas of risk which can be foreseen in the project.
First, there is the possibility of implementation delays with respect to the
modernization of pumping stations. Such delays, whether from the
non-availability of funds or other causes, would mean continued irrigation
efficiency losses and, hence, reduced or delayed project benefits. In
addition, pumping station failures during peak irrigation periods could lead
to severe crop damage. To reduce these risks, a detailed implementation
schedule was prepared and agreed upon during appraisal.  The schedule includes
a number of advance procurement actions which can be taken to facilitate the
timely acquisition of equipment and the early start-up of construction and
repair activities. As an additional safeguard against delays, assurances have
been obtained that government will guarantee, on an annual basis, the local
funds required for implementation of the project and for operation and
maintenance of project-financed pumping stations. To this effect, a specific
covenant has been included in the loan agreement.
4.13     The second area of risk is that project pumping stations would not be
properly operated and maintained, leading to reductions in efficiency and in
the expected life of equipment such as pumps, motors, and gear boxes.
Reductions of this nature would lower expected project benefits, particularly
those benefits expected to occur in the later years of the project. As
mentioned above, a covenant has been included in the loan agreement to ensure
that sufficient local funds are made available for project O&M activities. In
addition, a series of measures will be taken by MED to assure adequate station



-28-
maintenanceG Finally, the project provides for the establishment of an
effective maintenance inspection and review system, based upon the
recommendations of specialists engaged for this purpose.
4.14     The third area of risk is related to the maintenance of the
irrigation and drainage systems. If these systems are not properly
maintained, the beneficial effect of the pump rehabilitation will be
considerably lower.  At present, there are many cases where the maintenance of
open drains and irrigation canals, as well as control structures, is
inadequate. The Bank has already been involved in the remodelling and
maintenance of drainage systems in Egypt through the ongoing drainage projects
(para, 1.19) which cover a total area of 2.8 million feddans (about half of the
cultivated land in the Delta and Nile valley). Provision was made under these
projects for maintenance equipment and a series of organizational measures
were included which are being applied by the Government to ensure proper
maintenance of the field drainage and open drain collectors. USAID has also
financed the procurement of canal dredging equipment for the maintenance of
open drains and irrigation canals. A new USAID project was approved in
July 1981 for improving operating efficiency of the irrigation systems in five
Governorates and strengthening the M[inistry of Irrigation's operation,
maintenance, and planning capabilities. These measures should provide the
basis for developing an adequate program for upgrading the irrigation and
drainage systems countrywide and for maintaining them in good conditions, but
there is a risk that the measures may be insufficient. Bank staff will
continue to monitor the adequacy of these measures and, if necessary, will
consider preparing in the future a supplementary irrigation and drainage
maintenance Bank project, for presentation to the Board.



-29-
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits
5.01     The irrigation and drainage pumping facilities proposed for
rehabilitation under the project will service an area of about 1,200,000
feddans with an annual gross income of about US $ 1,060 million. Without
these facilities, this income would drop dramatically, since agriculture
cannot be sustained in the project area without irrigation and drainage.
Because of the critical importance of these stations, it is expected that
Government will carry out, in any case, the rehabilitation when the stations
reach the stage that they cannot be maintained operational for any longer. It
is assumed that the maximum remaining life of these stations, no matter what
the maintenance input is, is ten more years. Thus, the estimation of the
project benefits is based upon quantification of the benefits derived from a
timely rehabilitation of the 30 stations, as proposed under the project,
versus a delayed rehabilitation that will take place ten years later. Another
reason for limiting the project benefits to a period of ten years is that the
new units to be installed and those to be repaired under the project will need
a major overhaul in the case of the former and a replacement in the case of
the latter, ten years after the proposed rehabilitation.
5.02     The benefits of the project, as described above, may be broadly
divided into (a) improvement in overall efficiency; (b) reduction in
maintenance cost; and (c) better reliability of pump operation. These
benefits are highly interrelated and depend upon the provision of adequate
repair facilities and an effective operation and maintenance organization.
5.03     Overall Efficiency.  The overall efficiency is the water output
divided by the energy input, and is the product of the efficiencies of the
transformer, motor, gearbox, and pump. When they are new, pump units of the
type and size required for the project have an overall efficiency of about
0.65. Studies in the United States 1/, show that propellor pumps handling
normal water without excess grit and sand have an average efficiency loss of
about 1% for every 5,000 hours of operation. Based on the age of existing
pump units (average 26.4 years) and their total hours of operation, it was
estimated that the overall efficiency of such pumps just prior to
rehabilitation will be on average 0.49. If these pumps are left without
replacement or renovation, and if they continue to operate at the present
rate, their average efficiency after ten years will drop to 0.42. With the
project, it is assumed that the replacement of pump units will increase
efficiency to 0.65; the repair of pump units is assumed to raise efficiency to
0.60. Taking into account the mix between repair and replacement, the average
efficiency of the units immediately after their rehabilitation is assumed to
be 0.62. Within ten years after rehabilitation, assuming an efficiency loss
of 1% for every 5,000 hours of operation, the efficiency of the rehabilitated
units would drop to 0.56.
1/ "Selecting Large Pumping Units" Engineering Monograph No.40, Bureau of
Reclamation, US. Department of the Interior, Dec. 1978.



-30-
5.04     Based upon the above assumptions, it was concluded that the average
efficiency of the rehabilitated pump units during the ten years after
rehabilitation will be 0.59. If rehabilitation did not occur, the pump units
would have average efficiency of only 0.45 during the same period. In terms
of energy consumption, the improvement in efficiency through rehabilitation
will result in an annual average saving of about 33 million KWh. With an
economic price of US $0.06 (LE 0.05) per KWh, the average annual savings in
cost for pumping after rehabilitation will be US $1.98 million.
5.05     Maintenance Cost.  Annual maintenance cost is a function of pump age
and hours of operation. It also depends on the quality of preventive
maintenance. Based upon data in two studies l/,a curve was derived showing
maintenance cost as a function of pump age. (Annex 1, Figure 1). Using this
curve, the annual maintenance cost of the existing pumps, just prior to their
rehabilitation, was estimated at about US $1.0 million. Without the project,
the annual maintenance cost of these pumps after ten years will be increased
to about US $1.98 million. With the proposed rehabilitation program, the
maintenance cost curve shows that the annual maintenance cost, in the first
year after rehabilitation, will be only US $0.15 million; ten years after
rehabilitation this cost would be about US $0.3 million. Therefore, with the
project, there will be an average savings in maintenance cost during the ten
years after rehabilitation of about US $1.27 million per year in 1981 prices.
5.06     Reliability of Pump Units.  The capability of pump units to deliver
irrigation or drainage water according to schedule (defined as reliability) is
of utmost importance to the crops and depends upon the joint reliability of
many components, i.e. transformer, switchgear, motor, pump, and all other
pertinent equipment of the pumping station. To these should be added the
reliability of the power supply system, which in certain cases is causing
interruptions of pumping. New pumps have a level of reliability of
approximately 95%. The present lack of adequate maintenance facilities and
practices is causing a gradual loss of reliability which, based on general
experience, was conservatively assumed to be about 1% per year. The pump
units in the stations proposed for rehabilitation have an average age of 26.4
years, which means that the present level of their reliability is
approximately 69%. Without the project, the reliability of the units would
continue to drop at an accelerated rate. Even assuming a constant reliability
loss of only 1% per annum, reliability would decline to 59% within ten years.
5.07     With the project, the reliability of the units is expected to be
restored to the initial level of 95%. In addition, experience has shown that
improved maintenance facilities and the introduction of preventive maintenance
1/  "Pumping Plant Operation and Maintenance Costs", by John M. Eyer, US
Deptartment of the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, Denver, Colorado, May
19b5; and "Irrigation Operation and Maintenance Cost Trends", US
Department of the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, Denver, Colorado, July
1980.



-31--
auc monitoring systems are expected to reduce the annual loss of reliability
to aDout 0.5%.  Therefore, in ten years after rehabilitation, the pump units
would still maintain a very satisfactory level of reliability of 90%.
-.08     Since there are standby pump units in all stations, the above
estimates of reliability of individual units do not necessarily represent the
overall reliability of pumping stations. Estimates of overall or combined
reliability can be derived through the use of probability calculations 1/
as shown below;
Keliability           Reliability VP) of Stations of n Units
of individual                    (of which one standby)
Pump Units (R)      n = 2      n = 3      n = 4      n = 5      n = 6
0.95             1.00       0.99       0.99       0.98      0.97
0.90             0.99       0.97       0.95       0.92      0.88
0.80             0.96       0.90       0.82       0.74       0.66
0.70             0.91       0.78       0.65       0.53       0.42
0.60             0.84       0.65       0.48       0.34       0.23
3 .U9    'The amounc of water pumped at the peak irrigation or drainage period
depends on the reliability of pumping stations, though not necessarily in
direct proportion. For example, for a pumping station with four pump units
(the average number of units among the 30 pumping stations to be
renaDilitated) the amount of water actually delivered by this station, at the
peak period, compared to the amount required, was calculated as follows; 2/
Keliability of       Keliability of Station (P)         Relation between
individual              with n = 4 Units            Water Delivered and  (Qd)
Pump Units (R)          (Of which one Standby)          Water Required       (Qr)
0.95                        0.99                           1.00
0.90                        0.95                          0.98
0.80                        0.82                          0.94
0.70                        0.65                          0.88
0.60                        0.48                          0.82
1/  Using the formula; P = Rn + nRn-l (1-R), where P = reliability of the
station to deliver discharge of n-l units, n = number of units in the
station including one standby, and R = reliability of individual units.
See aLso curves in Annex 1, Figure 2.
2/ Using the simplifiied formula; Qd = P(n-l) + (P-1) (n-2)
Qr            (n-l)
where Qd = amount of water delivered by the station, Qr = amount of water
required, P = reliability of the station to deliver discharge of n-i units.



-32-
5.10     Detailed calculations (available in project file) made for the
various station types, based upon number of pump units, show that, just prior
to their rehabilitation, the pumping stations would deliver an average of 88%
of the water required at the critical periods. In the absence of a
rehabilitation program, this water delivery capability would decline to an
average of 82% within ten years. With the project, the calculations show that
the water delivery capability would be 100% during the first year after
rehabilitation, and would remain at a satisfactory level of 98% ten years
after rehabilitation.
5.11       Keduced capacity of an irrigation or drainage pumping station, at
the critical periods, would have an adverse effect on crop yields due to
shortage of irrigation water or inadequate drainage. Data are not available
to establish an accurate link between reduced amount of pumping water and the
effect on crops. FAO studies showed that yield decreases that would result
from a 15% irrigation water deficit during the critical period range from 8%
to 23%. Field trials in Egypt showed that yields of crops without good
drainage are about 12% to 16% lower than those in well drained areas. In the
case of the project, a conservative assumption was made that, without the
project, yields will drop by 5% over a period of ten years, with an average
decline rate of 0.5% per year. Since this very modest decline in yields would
be unlikely to have a measurable effect on agricultural production costs, it
was assumed that such costs will remain unchanged during the decline period.
As a result, agricultural benefits are expressed in terms of avoidance of
gross (rather than net) fann income losses, proportionally to the expected
yield declines. The avoidance of farm income losses with the project (i.e.
agricultural benefits) would average US $ 19.2 million per year (Annex 1,
Table 6).
5.12     Other Project Benefits.  There are other benefits of the project
which have not been quantified, as follows:
(a)  The economic analysis of the project was based on an estimated
project life of ten years (para 5.01), although life expectancy
of the new pumps to be installed in 15 out of the 30 stations is
at least 25 years. Therefore, there are benefits from the
replacement of pump units which would extend well beyond the
project life.
(b)  The improvement of maintenance, the introduction of monitoring,
cost accounting and store control systems, and the provision of
spare parats to be used, in cases of emergency, in pumping
stations outside the project area, are expected to have benefits
which would apply to MED pump facilities throughout Egypt.
(c)  The total area serviced by the 30 stations is at present
1,134,000 feddans. This area will be increased in the future by
some 40,000 feddans for which incremental agricultural benefits
are expected to occur.
(d)  The increase of the reliability of the irrigation pumping
stations is expected to have a beneficial effect on water use.
If water supply is not reliable, farmers have the tendency to
overirrigate their lands in anticipation of subsequent water
shortages. This leads to a waste of water and to waterlogging.



-33-
With the project the reliability of water supply will be
increased, which is expected to result in improved efficiency of
water use.
(e)  In the evaluation of the project, it was assumed that, at
present, there is no negative effect on the crops as a result of
the low reliability of the stations. The reduction in yields
was assumed to begin in the first year, after rehabilitation of
the pumps, and to increase progressively to 5% within ten
years. However, in several cases it was observed that, due to
the malfunctioning of the stations, there is already a reduction
in yields. Therefore, the project in addition to maintaining
yields at the present level, will increase them above this level.
All the above secondary benefits, which are likely to be significant but are
difficult to quantify have not been taken into account in the economic
analysis of the project.
Beneficiaries and Repayment Capacity
5.13     Reduction of the annual O&M cost will benefit the Government and, in
particular, the Ministry of Irrigation which has the responsibility and
provides the funds for the operation of all major pumping stations in Egypt.
The O&M cost savings will be approximately LE2.6 million (US $3.2 million) per
year on average . The increase in reliability of the pumping stations will
benefit the 490,000 farm families that cultivate about 1.2 million feddans
serviced by the stations to be rehabilitated. About 50% of these families
belong to the target income group. 1/ Without the project, farmers will be
subject to considerable losses in income as a result of declining pump station
reliability. These losses will increase annually as reliability decreases.
5.14     The repayment capacity of project area beneficiaries is necessarily
limited due to their low incomes. It should be noted, however, that, at
present, irrigation and drainage O&M and investment expenditures are partly
recovered through land taxes on holdings of more than three feddans. 2/ This
form of cost recovery would continue to apply to the farmers serviced by
project area pumping stations. The possibility of introducing direct cost
recovery measures (e.g. water use charges) was reviewed, but it was concluded
that such measures would be impractical to implement in Egypt under present
circumstances. Another alternative, increasing the land taxes to reflect
increased productivity, is not applicable, since the proposed project will
maintain rather than augment land productivity. It should be noted that the
project would prevent reduction in land taxes which would have followed the
decline of land productivity (without thie project).
1/ Based on a relative income level equivalent to US $118 per capita.
2/ Farmers with holdings of less than three feddans are exempted because it
is considered that their income is too low to be taxed.



-34-
5.15     There are two other factors which weaken the case for supporting
auclitionai cost recovery measures.  First the proposed project is strongly
oriented towards deferred maintenance; sucn maintenance has already been paid
Lor by project tarmers through land taxes, but has been deferred by Government
due to budgetary constraints.  The imposition of additional cost recovery
aieasures twhetner higher land taxes or the introduction of water use charges)
would simply result in the "retaxation" of project beneficiaries.  In this
context, a second factor which merits consideration is that, according to
recent bank studies l/,there is already a substantial net transfer of
resources from agricultural producers to other sectors and the general budget
tlirough the pricing mechanism. This transfer, which has occurred for many
years, was estimated to account for at least 15% of agricultural value added
fn 1980, equivalent to about US $800 million.  Thus, even without additional
cosc recovery measures, farmers are currently paying considerably more than
the cost of investments and services they receive.
Ecooiomic Rate of Return (ERR)
5.lb     Lhiie basic economic rate of return (ERR) on project investments is
estimated at about 44%. Assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 12% in
Egypt, tne economic net present value of project investments is about LE63.9
million (US $77.9 million). These estimates take into account all incremental
investment and 0&M costs of toe proposed pump rehabilitation program over a 14
year period. 2/ The basic ERR calculation rests heavily on the quantification
ot agricultural benefits &Annex 1, Table 7), specifically, avoidance of crop
losses, which are in themselves sufficient to generate an ERR of about 37%.
5.17     Costs and benefits have been computed at constant (December 1981)
prices over 14 years, and the relative prices of inputs and outputs are
assumed to remain unchanged over this period. Investment costs exclude taxes,
duties, and subsidies wherever identifiable. Tradable inputs used in the
computation ot farm income models (Annex 1, Table 5) have been valued at their
import parity prices, including an allowance for domestic transportation. The
cost of energy usea to compute O&M cost savings was based on an economic price
of LE 0.05 (US $0.06) per KWh. 3/
_/ See 1Biw, Agricultural Price Management in Egypt, World Bank Staff Working
Paper No.388, April 1980; and IBRD, Arab Republic of Egypt, Agricultural
Price Policies Study, July 1981.
2/  Ot which four years are required to complete phased pump rehabilitation
investments.
3/  This compares with a financial price of LEO.009 per KWh.



-35-
Sensitivity Analysis
5.18     Since avoidance of crop losses constitutes the main project
investment benefit, considerable emphasis was placed on testing the
sensitivity of agricultural benefits to changes in yield decline rates. In
the basic run, project investments were assumed to prevent an annual yield
decline of 0.5%, equivalent to a 5% decline over ten years. However, even if
the project were to prevent a yield decline of only 0.15% per year, equivalent
to a 1.5% decline over ten years, the project ERR (including benefits from
reduced O&M costs) would still amount to 19%. A more detailed sensitivity
analysis for the base case is presented below;
Economic Rate
Assumption                                                        of Return (%)
Base case (prevention) of 0.5% annual yield
decline, electricity at US $0.06/KWh                               40.0
All be-nfits lagged three years                                       21.0
All costs up 50%                                                      28.0
All costs up 50%, all benefits down 50%                               12.6
All costs up 50%, benefits lagged three years                         14.9



-36-
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.Oi     During negotiations, the following main assuraLnces were obtained;
(a) Government will install, before December 31, 1985, new 11 KV
transmission lines required to ensure power supply for the
pumping stations Faraskur, Gharak 1, Gharak 2, and Gharak 3
(para 3.15);
(b)  MED will staff adequately and maintain a task force to carry out
day to day activities during the project implementation period
(para 4.03);
(c)  MED will design and implement., prior to December 31, 1984,
maintenance schedules, to be applied to all pumping stations,
with emphasis on preventive maintenance and will provide, in a
timely manner, the funds required for operation and maintenance
of tne pumping stations (para 4.05);
(d)  MED will implement an effective maintenance inspection and
review program under tie direct supervision of the
Undersecretaries for Operation and Maintenance for Lower and
Upper Egypt kpara 4.06);
(e) 'iAED will design and implement a cost accounting system prior to
March 31, 1985, (para 4.08);
tf)  MED will oesign and implement an appropriate store inventory
control system prior to March 31, 1985, (para 4.09).
b.U2     agreement having been reached on the above conditions, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US $41.5 million to the Government of the Arab
Republic of Egypt for a term of 20 years including five years of grace at a
standard variable interest rate.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPINC STATIONS RE1HABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates (detailed)
EQUIP1ENT COST              INSTALLATION AND REPAIR COST   Civil          Staff            TOTAL COST
Type of  Trans-  Installation  Super-               Works   Housing
Rehab. Pumps 8otors formers Total    and Repair   vision    Total   Cost   No.  Cost   Local  Foreign  Total
------US $ 000                               -                                            us $ 000
A. PURPING STATION
REHABILITATION
1. Atf (main)                   RPR       700    240       -      940          94          72        166        50   4    48        192    1,012   1,204
2. Edku                          RPL      330    684       -   1,014          100          72        172       200   -       -      300    1,086   1,386
3. Delingat                      RPL      330    702       -   1,032          103          72        175       100   -       -      203     1$104   1,307
4. Deshudi                       RPL      396    624       -   1,020          102          72        174       200   -       -      302    1,092    1,394
5. Truga                         RPL      770  1,075   150   1,995            200          72        272       200   4    48        448    2,067   2,515
6. Thawra - I                    RPL      294  1,278       -   1,572          157          72        2?9       150   -       -      307    1,644   1,951
7. Hamoul                       RPR        51      87      -      138          15           -         15        50   4    48        113       138      251
8. Bahr Tiraa                    RPR       72    136       -      208          20           -         20        50   -       -       70       208      278
9. Burulos                       RPL      210    351       -      561          56          48        104       150   -       -      206       609      815
10. Busat                         RPR       44      48   110       202           20          -          70        50   -      -       70       202      272
11. Balamun                       RPL      500    650   150   1,300            130         108        238       100   8    96        326    1,408   1,f,34
12. Kafr Saad                     RPR       72      68      -      140          14           -          L4       30   -       -       44       140       184
13. Faraskur                      RPR        -       -   150       150          l5           -         15        35   -       -       50       150      200
14. El Wady                       RPR       57    112       -      169          17           -         17         50   -      -       67       l69      236    <
15. Qassassin                     RPR        -       -   150       150          15           -         15        35   -       -       50       150      200
16. Hanout                        RPR       36      66      -      102          10           -         10        40   -       -       50       102      152
17. Abu Menaga                    RPR       95    150       -      245          25           _         25        35   -       -       60       245      305
18. Gharak - I                    RPL       88    156    28        272          27          36         53        80   4    48        155       308      463
19. Gharak - 2                    RPL      160    488       -      648          65          36        101       100   -       -      165       684      849
20. Gharak - 3                    RPL      184    648       -      832          83          36        119       100   -       -      183       868   1,01
21. Khiyam                        RPL      660    780   100   1,540            150          72        222       120   4    48        318    1,612   1,930
22. El Nil                        RPR       17      70      -       87            9          -          9         31   4    48        88        87      175
23. Radissia - I                  RPL       96    536       -      632          63          48        I11       200   -       -      263       680      943
24. Radissia - 2                  RPL       88    688       -      776          78          48        126       100   4    48        226       824   1,050
25. Wady Abbady - I               RPR       10      48      -       58            6          -          6        24   -       -       30        58       88
26. Wady Abbady - 2               RPR        8      18              26           4           -          4        20   8    96        120        26      346
27. .Jady Abbady - 3              RPR        3      12      -       15            2          -          2        18  --       -       20        15       35
28. Wady Abbady - 4               RPR        2       4      -        6            1          -          1        14   -       -       15         6       21
29. Bayara                        CON      462  5,850   600   6,912            690         108        798    4,800   -        -   5,490    7,020  12,510
30. Raqaba                        RPL       22      42      -       64            6         24         30        50   -       -       56        88      144
SUBTOTAL                            5,757 15,611 1,438  22,806           2,277        996      3,273    4,882  44   528   7,687   23,802  31,489
PLysical Contingencies                                                                                                        1,153     3,571   4,724
Price Contingencies                                                                                                           4,648      7,987  12,635
TOTAL  A                                                                                                                     13,488   35,360  48,848
RPR = repair of pump units
RPL = replacement of pump units                                                                             
CON = construction bf pumpinig slatiorn (including replacement of -ump units)                                                                           P



Cost Estimates (detailed) cont'd
INSTALLATION             Workshop                  STAFF HOUSING
Equipment   Installation  Super-              Building    Engineers        Technicians    Cost for                            Total Cost
Type        Cost          (15%)        vision  Total  & Stores              Cost             Cost    Housing         Year of       Local  Foreign  Total
------------------- US   000  --           ----------  No.  US $ 000  No.    ---US $ 000 ---  Establishment  ----- US $ 000 ------
B. WORKSHOPS
1. El Wady           Central          165            25           12       37       120       2       36      12      144       180             1984         325      177       502
2. Busely           Regional           30             5            -        5          3      -        -      -         -          -            1984           8       30         38
3. Deshudi              "              30             5            -        5        15      -         -       6       72         72            1984          92       30       122
4. Tabaqa               "              30             5            -        5         15      -        -       -        -          -            1985          20       30         50
5. Thawra                              20             3            -        3        25       -        -       6       72         72            1985         100       20       120
6. Hamoul                              30             5            -        5         15      -        -       6       72         72            1986          92       30       122
7. Burulos              "              30             5            -        5        15      -         -       6       72         72            1986          92       30       122
8. Drain No. I          "              30             5            -        5         15      -        -       6       72         72            1986          92       30       122
9. Qassassin            "              11             2            -        2         15      -        -       6       72         72            1984          89       11       100
10. Bahr Baker           "              18             3            -        3          -      -        -       6       72         72            1985          75       18         93
11. Nag Hammadi       Central           60             9           12       21         75      4       72       4       48        120            1986         204       72       276
12. Komombo              "             130            20           12       32       120       4       72       4       48        120            1987         260      142       402
13. Fayum            Regional           30             5            -        5         36      2       35       4       48         84            1985         125       30       155
14. Beni Mazar           "              30             5            -        5         18      -        -       -        -         -             1987          23       30         53
15. Abu Ragheb                          30             5            -        5         18      -        -       -        -          -            1987          23       30         53
16. Ehnasia                             30             5            -        5         18      -        -       -        -          -            1987          23       30         53
17. Malawi               "              30             5            -        5         36      2       35       4       48         84            1986         125       30       155
18. El Nil                              30             5            -        5         18      3       5;       4       48        102            1985         125       30       155
SUBTOTAL                           764          122           36       158       577     17      306       74      888     1,194                       1,893      800    2,693
Phys. Contingencies                                                                                                                                      284      120        404
Price Contingencies                                                                                                                                    1,279       316    1,595
TOTAL B                                                                                                                                                3,456   1,236    4,692
mOQ
m 
0



Cost Estimates (detailed) conL'd
EQUiPMENT                  CIVIL WORKS         _               INSTALLATION                  CONSULTANTS           TOTAl COSr
Unit    Total                  Other  Total                       Supervision    Total  Man!
No.  Cost $  Cost        Buildinps   Works  Cost   Installation   (consultant)  Cost   Month  Cost  Local  Forei,gn   Total
fTLM                                                               -------------US 00----------- ---- f      --------- --------US$00-------            -
I Tl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                  lT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s 0---us rmO
C. Equipment
- Pick-ups, 3/4 tons                     42    10,000       420           -        -         -           -                -             -      -         -      -        420      420
-Station wagons                            6   10,000        60           -        -         -           -                -             -      -         -      -         60        60
- Trucks, 7 tons                           6   20,000       120           -        -         -           -                -             -      -         -      -        120       120
- Minibuses, 10 seats                      2    15,000       30           -                  -                            -             -      -         -                30        30
-Motorcycles                             30      1,000       30           -        -         -           -                -             -      -         -      -         30        30
- Mobile cranes, 10 tons                   6   50,000       300           -        -         -           -                -             -      -         -      -        300       300
- Forklifts, 2 tons                        6   12,000        72           -        -         -                                                                  -         72        72
- Energency spare
parts  I/                            sum     -         800           -        -         -           -                -             -      -         -      -        800       800
Laboratory equipment                                     200                    -         -            -                -            -       -        -       -       200       200
SUBTOTAL                                -          -  2,032             -       -         -            -     _-                                                     2,032   2,032
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                  -            -       -        -       -       203       203
Price Contingencies                     -          -                    -                           -           - -                    --                     -       355       355
TOTAL C                                 -          -                     -        -         -          -                -            -       -          -     -     2 SQO  _500
D. Central ConLrol System
Nasr Canal
Equipmnent                          asui          -     300          100      50       150           30             120           150       -              I 1Ro     lW        fl
TelepLtone cables, kcm                 55  _0,000    550                         - -                1 5 0 -                        150                -    150         5           C(
StUBTOIAIL                                               850          100      50       150         180              120           30        -i
Phy-sical ConLingencies                 -                                    -            -            -                -            -       --        -     50        Il       19S
Price Conicingencies                               -                    -       --                     -                -            -       -             139        2? _4     1i73
TOTALD                                  -          -        -                    -          -          --               -            --      -         -    519       3__ _ 8f8
E. Technical Assistance
- Establishment Project Accounts    -                 -       -           -        -         -           -                -             -      4        40      -         40        40
- Establishment Cost Acct.System    -                -        -           -        -         -           -                -             -     12       120      -        120       120
- Establishment Store Control Syst.                  -        -           --       -         -           -                -             -     12       120      1- 20              120
- Design Maintenance System               -          -        -           -        -         -           -                -             -     12       120      -        120       120
SUBTOFAL                                -          -        -           -        -        -            -                -            -       -         -      -       400       400
Physical Contingencies                  -                   -           -        -                     -                -            -       -        -       -         60        60
Price Contingencies                     -          -        -           -        -        -            -                -            -       -        -                           5
TOTAL E                                       -        -          -         -         -          -             -               -         -        -       -            53        53
PROJECT BASE COST                       -          -        -           -        -        -            -                -            -       -           9,910    28,004   37,914
PHIYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                 -          -        -           -        -        -            -                -            -       -           1,487      4,099    5,586      e
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                     -          -        -           -        -        -            -                -            -       -           6,066      8,967   15,033    a
TOTAL                                   -          -        -           -        -        -            -                -            -       -          17,463    41,070  58,533  m -M
CUSTOMS DUTIES                          -          -        -           -        -        -            -                -            -                   6,348           -    6,348  o
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                                                             23,811    41,070  64,887  '-
I/  for pumping stations outside the project area.
March 1983



-40-
ANNEX 1
Table 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
List of Project Equipment
Unit Price      Cost
Item                                                   Number       US  $       US$000
Equipment for new pump units in the station
proposed for construction                           sum                      6,912
Equipment for replacing of pump units in
14 stations                                        sum                     13,258
Equipment for repair of pump units in 15 stations   sum                          2,636
Equipment for 3 centra% workshops                       sum                         355
Equipment for 15 regional workshops                     sum                        409
Emergency spare parts                                   sum                         800
Mobile cranes (10 tons)                                    6       50,000           300
Forklifts (2 tons)                                         6       12,000            72
Vehicles; pick-ups (3/4 ton)                             42        10,000          420
station wagons                                  6       10,000            60
trucks (7 tons)                                 6       20,000           120
minibuses (10 seats)                            2       15,000            30
motorcycles                                    30         1,000           30
Equipment for electrical laboratories                    sum                        200
Equipment and materials for central control
system Nasr Canal                                    sum                        850
SUBTOTAL                              26,452
Physical contingencies                                                        3,906
Price contingencies                                                           8,519
TOTAL                                 38,877
March 1983



-41-
ANNEX 1
Table 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year            Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter             at End of Quarter (US $ 000)  Percent of Total
FY 1984
March 31, 1984                         1,380                      3.3
June 30, 1984                          2,760                     6.7
FY 1985
September 30, 1984                    4,140                     10.0
December 31, 1984                      5,520                    13.3
March 31, 1985                         8,360                    20.1
June 30, 1985                        11,190                     27.0
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                   14,030                     33.8
December 31, 1985                     16,860                    40.6
March 31, 1986                        19,880                    48.0
June 30, 1986                        22,900                     55.2
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                   25,920                     62.5
December 31, 1986                     28,930                    69.7
March 31, 1987                        31,390                    75.6
June 30, 1987                        33,850                     81.6
FY 1988
September 30, 1987                   36,310                     87.5
December 31, 1987                    38,760                     93.4
March 31, 1988                        39,320                    94.7
June 30, 1988                        39,880                     96.1
FY 1989
September 30, 1988                   40,440                     97.4
Decermber 31, 1988                   41,500                    100.0
Closing date: June 30, 1989
March 1983



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS RECIAAILITAI ION PROJEICT
Pumping Station Characteristics
AREA SERVED (fed)   Year                         EXISTING PUMP UNITS                 PROPOSED PUMP UNITS              Proposed
Present  Proposed  of Con-  Pumping             Unit       Station  Motor            Unit       Station  Motor  Rehabilitation
PUMPING STATION        GOVERNORATE  FUNCTION          Area      Area   struiction  Lift   No. D    _charge Discharge Power   No. Discharge Discharge Power  Type                 Year
(¶1)        (m Is)    (m Is         kw)               s       i/)        (
-A. Lower Egypt
1. Att (main)         beheira          Irrig.   215,000    215,000        1954      3.00     6  12/18        72/108 260/630       6     18.0         108.0      630)  RPR        1984
2. Edku                  "                        35,000      35,000      1958      4.00     3    5.0           15.0      346     3      6.0          18.0      360  RPI.        1984
3. Delingat              "             Drain.    70,000       70,000      1967      4.00     3    5.0           15.0      360     3      5.0          15.0      360  RPL         1986
4. Deshudi                                        33,000      33,000      1958      3.20     3    5.0           15.0      243     3      5.0          15.0      320  RPL         1984
5. Truga                 "                        103,000    103,000      1967      2.90     5    7.0           35.0      330     5      7.0          35.0      330  RPL         1985
6. Thawra - I            "             Irrig.     25,000      35,000      1964     11.00     6    3.2           19.2      550     3      3.2          21.6      550  RPL         1985
3     4.0                     640
7. Hamoul            Katr Sheik          "        44,000      44,000      1962      3.60     3    7.8           23.4      450     3      7.8          23.4      450  RPR         1986
8. bahr Tiraa                          Drain.    72,000       72,000      1969      4.70     4    8.0           32.0      515    4       8.0          32.0       515  RPR        1986
9. burulos               "                         13,000     13,000      1967      3.00     3    3.2            9.6      180     3      3.2           9.6       180  RPL        198r,
10. Busat             Dakahliya         Irrig.    34,000       34,000      1940      2.50    4    5.0            20.0      185    4       5.0          20.0       185  RPR        1984
11. balamun                                        38,000      38,000      1938      3.00     4    3.5           14.0      184     5      4.5          22.5      201)  RPI        1987
12. Kafr Saadl         Damiet                      62,000      62,000      1969      2.30     4    8.0           32.0      257    4       8.0          32.0      257  RPR         1986
13. Faraskur              '             Drain.    20,000       20,000      1968      4.30     4    5.1           20.4      457     4      5.1          20.4      457  RPR         1986
14. El Wady            Sharkiya  Drain./Irrig. 145,000    145,000          1956      4.30     5    5.2           26.0      345     5      5.2          26.0       345  RPR        1984
15. Qassassin             "             Drain.    20,000       20,000      1964      4.50     3    5.0           15.0      457     3      5.0          15.0      457  RPR         1984
16. Hanout                        D Urain./Irrig.  48,700      48,700      1956      4.50     3    5.3           15.9      345     3      5.3          15.9       345  RPR        1984
17. Abu Menaga        Qalubiya          Irrig. _  68,000       68,000      1960      2.50     5    8.5           42.5      370     5      8.5          42.5      470  RPR         1985
bUbTOTAL                                    1,045,700 1,055,700                          68                458.0              69                 471.9
B. Upper Egypt
18. Gnarak - I        Fayum             Drain.    (8,150)  (14,000)    1940          3.90     4     1.0           4.0        57    4       1.0         4.0         60  RPI,       1984
19. Charak - 2           "                        (12,200)  (16,600)    1940         6.20     4     1.8           7.2      188    4        1.8         7.2        188  RPL        1985
20. Gharak - 3                    D Drain./Irrig.  16,650      19,200      1940      8.80     4    2.1            8.4      250    4        2.1         8.4        250  RPTI       1985
21. Khiyam            Qena              Irrig.    37,500       47,500      1942      2.50     4     5.9          23.6      232      4      7.5        30.0        300  RPL        1984
22. El Nil             Aswan            Irrig.      13,000     13,000      1967     10.50      5    1.5           7.5       220     5      1.5         7.5        220  RPR        1985
23. Radissia - 1         " I                        (6,500)    (6,500)    1967      14.00     4     1.1           4.4      206      4      1.1         4.4        206  RPL.       1987
24. Radissia - 2         "                          (6,400)   (6,400)    1967       19.00      4     1.0          4.0       265    4       1.0         4.0        265  RPI,       1986
25. Wady Abbady -1                                  (6,500)   (6,500)   1967        13.30     4     1.0           4.0       184    4       1.0         4.0        184  RPR        1985
26. Wady Abbady - 2   "                   "         (4,500)   (4,500)   1967         7.00     4    0.7            2.8        70    4       0.7         2.8         70  RPR        1985
27. Waay Abbady - 3    '                            (2,500)    (2,500)    1967       6.50     3    0.5            1.5        55     3      0.5          1.5        55  RPR        1985
28. Wade Abbaay - 4                                   (500)       (500)    1967      6.00      2    0.3           0.6        24     2      0.3         0.6         24  RPR        1986
29. bavara               "                "         21,000     39,400      1956     24.00     4     1.5           6.0      480      6      3.5        21.0      1,500  CON        1986
30. Raqaba               "                             300         300     1960      4.50      2    0.5           1.0        31     2      0.5          1.0        32  RPI.       1986
SUBTOTAL                                       88,450   119,400                          48   75.0                            50                  96.4
TOTAL                                       1,134,150 1,175,100                         116  533.0                           119                 568.3
RPR = repair of pump units
RPL = replacement of pump vnits
CON = constrtictioi of niew pumping station.
Source:   MED,  March 1983



-43-
ANNEX 1
Table 5
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Indicative Farm Income Models (3 feddan farm) - 1981
Area       Output      Price 3/    Value
PKODUCT                        (feds)       (mt)      (LE/mt)        (LE)
I. Lower Egypt 1/
Wheat                       0.75        1.05        163            171
Beans                      0.15         0.14        307             43
Cotton                     0.90         0.76        875            665
Rice                        1.50        3.30        198            653
Maize                       0.45        0.77        121             93
Vegetables (summer)        0.15         1.23         50             62
Berseem - long  crop        1.20       24.00          -              -
of   - short crop       0.90        4.50           -             -
straws  - wheat            -            1.58          -              -
"1    - beans            -           0.12           -             -
- rice             -           4.50          -              -
H     - maize            -            1.12          -         -
SUBTOTAL CKOPS              b.00                                1,687
Milk  2/                                1.60        193            309
Meat (liveweight)                       0.12                        86
395
TOTAL (3 feddans) 4/                                            2,082
1/ Basic cropping pattern for Lower Egypt is;
Winter - short berseem 30%, long berseem 40%, wheat 25%, beans 5%.
Summer - cotton 30%, rice 50%, maize 15%, vegetables 5%.
Cropping intensity (total area of crops divided by total farm area) is 200.
2/ Assumes two milking buffaloes.
3/ based on 1980 economic prices.
4/ Gross income per feddan = LE694.



-44-
ANNEX 1
Table 5
Page 2 of 2
Area      Output       Price 3/    Value
PRODUCT                       (feds)       (mt)      (LE/mt)       (LE)
II. Upper Egypt 1/
Wheat                      1.05        1.47        163           240
Beans                      0.30        0.29        307            89
Sugarcane                  1.35       45.90         49         2,249
Maize                      0.60        1.02        121           123
Sorghum                    0.60        0.96        132           127
Oilseeds                   0.30        0.12        503            60
Berseem - long  crop       0.30        6.00          -             -
Straws  - wheat            -           2.21          -
,,  -       1.50          -             -
1.20         -         -
SUBTOTAL CROPS             4.50                                2,888
Milk  2/                               0.38        193            73
Meat (liveweight)          -           0.07        713            50
SUBTOTAL LIVESTOCK                                               123
3,011
1/  Basic cropping pattern for Upper Egypt is;
Winter - long berseem 10%, wheat 35%, beans 10%, sugarcane 45%.
bummer - maize 20%, sorghum 20%, oilseeds 10%, sugarcane 45%.
Cropping intensity is 150.
2/  Assu.,es one milking cow.
3/  All prices based upon 1980 economic prices.
4/  Gross income per feddan = LE1,003.
March 1983



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMNPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Agricultural Benefits
(Based on Total Farm Income Loss Prevented With the Project)
AREA SERVED (feddan) 1/            1985       1986      1987      1988      1989      1990     1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997
Lower Egypt                      261425    522580   784275   1045700  1045700  1045700  1045700  1045700  1045700  1045700  1045700  1045700  1045700
Upper Egypt                        22112      44225    66337       88450    88450    88450    88450    88450    88450    88450    88450    88450    88450
Total                             283537    566805   850612   1134150  1134150  1134150  1134150  1134150  1134150  1134150  1134150  1134150  1134150
GROSS FARM INCOME ('000 LE)2/
Lower Egypt                      181429    362858   544287    725716   725716   725716   725716   725716   725726   725716   725716   725716   725716
Upper Egypt                        22178     44358    66536        88715    88715    88715    88715    88715    88715    88715    88715    88715    88715
Total                             203607    407216   610823    814431   814431   814431   814431   814431   814431   814431   814431   814431   814431
FARM INCOME DECLINE WITHOUT
THE PROJECT (%) 3j                 0.125      0.375    0.750       1.250    1.750    2.250    2.750    3.250    3.750    4.250    3.375    2.375    1.250
TOTAL FARM INCOME LOSS ('000 LE)  255          1527      4581      10180    14253    18325    22397    26469    30541    34613    27487    19343    10180
TOTAL FARM INCOME LOSS('000 US$)  311          1863      5589      12420    17388    22356    27324    32292    37260    42228    33534    23598    12420
NOTES
1/  Based on project implementation schedule.  Agricuiltural benefits would not commence until the
second year of project implementation (1985).
2/  Based on farm models for Upper and Lower Egypt using economic prices.  Since production costs                                                            o 
were assumed to remain constant with the project, benefits were calculated on the basis of                                                               " m
incremental gross farm income.  Gross income per feddan in Lower Egypt is estimated at LE694;                                                            a
for Upper Egypt this figuire increases to LE1,003.  (The higher gross income in Upper Egypt is
due mainly to sugar cane cultivation)
3/  Percentage factor hased on assumption of a reduction in gross farm income of 0.5% per annlum due
to reduced delivery of irrigation/drainage water during peak periods withouLt the project.
Figures shown have been adjusted to reflect gradual inclusion of areas served. Beyond 10
factor decreases as a result of efficiency reductionis among older pumping stations (those
rehabilitated earliest in implementation cycle).
March 1983



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(US ' million)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
A. INVESTMENTS
Pump Rehabilitation 4.16  10.84  14.00   8.66   1.20    -             -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -
Workshops              -      0.88   0.66   0.92   0.65    -          -       -       - 
Equipment             1.35   0.88   0.88   0.88   0.88    -           -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -
Technical Asst.       0.25   0.21   0.21   0.21   0.21    -           -       -       -       -       -      -       -
TOTAL                 5.76  12.81  15.75  10.67   2.94    -           -       -       -               -       -              -
B. BENEFITS
Reduction in
Maintenance Cost   -        0.32   0.64   0.95   1.27   1.27   1.27   1.27   1.27   1.27   1.27   0.95   0.64   0.32
Red. in Energy Cost  -        0.50   1.00   1.50   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   1.50   1.00   0.50
Avoidance Crop
Losses               -      0.31   1.87   5.59  12.42  17.39  22.36  27.33  32.29  37.26  42.23  33.54  23.56  12.42
TOTAL                  -      1.13   3.51   8.04  15.69  20.66  25.63  30.60  35.56  40.53  45.50  35.99  25.20  13.24
March 1983



-47_                                 ANNEX  1
Figure 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Increase of Maintenance Cost of PumDs with the Time of Operation
0. 020h-                       __
0,G20 - r~~~-~
O.0lOn-   ----/-___       _
0.005-_
0)} -_...___ __         _ _
0          50         100         150
TOTAL OPERATING HOURS, thousands
December 1981



-48-
ANNEX
Figure 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Pumping Station Reliability Curve
1 00
$4
0
.4.
50
0 25
0           1           2            5           4
Number of Units Required  (n)
R = reliability of individual pump unit



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR         1983              1984             1985             1986              1987             1988
ACTIVITY                          QUARTER  1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3  4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1
- CONSTRUCTION OF 1 STATION                 _ -     '        -       t -   -                                               _ -     _
-REPLACEMENT OF PUMPS IN 14 STATIONS       __  __   _  -    .    _            3                                        ( -
- REPAIR OF PUMPS IN 15 STATIONS            --              - * _ _  |
- CONSTRUCTION OF 3 CENTRAL AND 15                               T
REGIONAL WORKSHOPS                           _  __   _ - - -   -
- PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT                      _      _             -                3
- INSTALLATION CENTRALCONTROLSYSTEM
NASR CANAL- -                                                           - - - - -
- CONSULTING SERVICES                                       -          - -                           L -                         I      .
Issuing of Tender                 Beginning of Civil Works
(!j Award of Contract                 Beginning of Delivery and/or Installation of Equipment
----- Preparation of Tender Oocuments  ®  Completion of Contract
World Bank - 23420



-50-
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ministry of Irrigation - Mechanical and Electrical Department
Organization Chart
DEPARTMENT CHIEF                  TECHNICAL OFFICE
FIRST UNDER SECRETARY               AND SECRETARIAT
PLANNING AND                               LEGAL
SUPERVISION                              AFFAIRS
ORGANIZATION  I                            PUBLIC
ADMINISTRATION J                     1
PUMPING STATIONS 1                           PUMPING STATIONS
ADMINISTRATION         OPERATION AND                                OPERATION AND
AND FINANCES          MAINTENANCE              PROJECTS             MAINTENANCE
UPPER EGYPT                                  LOWER EGYPT
SOUTH UPPER
ADMINISTRATION _OEGYPT                _         PROJECTS              EAST DELTA
AFFAIRS             DIRECTORATE            LOWER EGYPT            DIRECTORATE
FINANCIAL            NORTHrUPPER             PROJECTS          f  NORTH WEST
AFFARS           EYPT                 PPEREGYPT                DELTA
AFFAIRS       ~DIRECTORATE            UPREYTDIRECTORATE
PROCUREMENT           MIDDLE EGYPT                                   SOUTH WEST
AND SUPPLIES          DIRECTORATE            ILWIDIRECTORATEE
STORES              WORKSHOPS           COMMUNICATIONS        [MIDDLE DELTA  I
I    STORES         r    I  WORKSHOPS   r    |TRANSPORTATIONS          DIRECTORATE
FINANCIAL             ELECTRICAL                                    VWORKSHOPS  L
INSPECTORS           LABORATORIES
ELECTRICAL
LABORATORIES
World Bank - 23421



-51-
ANNEX 2
Page  I
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRXIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
List of Documents in the Project Files
a.    DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN EMENA INFORMATION CENTER
A- 1     Egypt - Irrigation Modernization in Egypt (Pump Relhabilitation)
Project - Working Paper, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program,
Investment Center, 28 July, 1981.
A- 2      Project Brief, August 31, 1981.
A- 3     Egypt - Irrigation Pumps Project Paper, AID-DLC/P-2249, US.
Department of State/AID, September 1977.
A- 4     Egypt - Irrigation Pumping Project Paper, Project No.263-0040,
IDCA/AID, April 1980.
A- 5      Contract between MED and Patterson Pumps Dubie-Clark Company, Toccoa,
Georgia and El Nasr Company for Civil Works for the supply and
erection of 37 pumping stations for Middle and Upper Egypt
A- 6      Invitation for bid No.78/01 for pumping and electrical equipment, MED
- Louis Berger International, Inc., Consulting Engineer.
A- 7     Ministry of Irrigation, MED, Fourth Quarterly Report, AID Loan
263-K-039, June 1979, prepared by Louis Berger International, Inc.,
Consulting Engineer.
A- 8     Ministry of Irrigation, MED, Final Report, AID Loan 263-K-039, August
1981, prepared by Louis Berger International, Inc., Consulting
Engineer.
A- 9      Pumping station description sheets (30), prepared by MED for Bank
Pump Rehabilitation Project, October 1981.
A-10     Workshop Equipment and Cost, prepared by MED for Bank Pump
Rehabilitation Project, October 1981.
A-ll      Pumping Plant - Operation and Maintenance Costs by John M.Eyer, US
Department of the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, May 1965.



-52-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
.B.    DOCUMENTS INCLUDED IN PROJECT FILE
B- I     Aide Memoire, Project Appraisal Mission, Cairo, October 5, 1981.
B- 2     Mechanical and Electrical Engineering Aspects.  Detailed report by
Mr. Fred Ruud, consultant, member of the Appraisal Mission, October
1981.
B-3      Pumping Station Rehabilitation - Cost Estimate Sheets (30).
C.    TABLES INCLUDED IN PROJECT FILE
C- 1     Estimated Area and Population Serviced by the Project.
C- 2     Water Demand and Discharges of Stations Proposed for Rehabilitation
C- 3     Uours of Operation and Age of Pump Units.
C- 4     Pump Consumption of Electricity.
C- 5     Energy Consumption With and Without the Project.
C- 6     Annual Maintenance Cost With and Without the Project.
C- 7     Pump O&M Cost After Rehabilitation.
C- 8     Detailed Cost Estimates and Phasing.
C- 9     Customs Duties.
C-10     Pump Rehabilitation - Implementation Schedule.
C-ll     Reliability of Pumping Stations for n-l Units.
C-12     Percentage of Water Delivery in Relation to Water Demand.
C-13     List of Project Contracts.
C-14     Procurement Profile of Value/Number of Contracts.



BAHR. TIRA A
,, >.               DV Ut '2                      N~~~~~~~F SAHA   e           *O,                     T    SAI D
-ALEXANDRIA ''  7 )i7..
247-'5>C_ ~~~~A rF I-AWAj,) J...
j 7 5   -(->De5/suDs   .  tg/7.  /         =          2gAF~~~~R EL SHEIKH   '             /                                  ,-    Ra's'wd
_V                              O/ Ae  OTRUGA    DAMANHU                                    EL MAHAL                L    MANSURA3
-_ <.21lMER/    \ Y    -  ----                           >           ,    )       >              w       */  \                            iSrJn El Hruggar
fFr7sn  eop e hon
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION R O                                                                                         -I
Qhsmphshe  rprdh  h   ol d1 Pupn  htt:b¢IOhh 3  /roor he  fon:R:e oreIcmh   o\)f :Jr  bet                      oI
(h:rRde: nd3 RCP 2. /r Ih Pmpirn:l vs: ofTh: W rorld e B:n   repui  of: pInnp hhItSdL                                                                                                              .
Fl/:n: oror:P  h:dRO PR dopo sed:  ned Ihe ondRrn:sol  d onhf 5mp doCar."sWse/  
ffp7pth  :r o  h:W rd :kQ n [xtirr  cAnl:runh:FRn ereorsOrhopn   0n dgs                                         To aymsJe  1 h i
KILOMETR    EGYP                                                                 IRO1                                                                        ^1   ,
-1 -d- -d 1~~~ -,11-2 W thl 11t-1 -                                                      DWv Td H W.wayd .-.k-.                                                 . h-' W-.f-5
F--r<               Pump_n_ Thaion   propose -d -Ir rei b-7- puh- -jl th-. -p dr -I
X~~~~~IRGTO                                          PUMIN                    STTIN    REAIITTO _, " SL aDA_ N)






CAIRCO
7','                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GIZ                                                                                                    0
EL 5'ADI
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION
HEL[WAN7'
UPPER EGYPT
/     'Umping station proposed for reconstr0crion
/     Pumpng stato,s proposed for replacement of pump -r;s
9    Pumping stations proposed for repair of pump int[s
/0'7',  -:)Y                ' t                                          U    Pro po sed   new   centr ol  w orkshops
30 3t   <   - /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \          /                                           B ~~~~~~~Ex,sting central workshop30C'
Main roads
Roiwa.ys
V  +   > ;   :   El B,rumb.]                      Canals
National Capital
0     Towns
t / A rCANl~ SUWEIF
E HA6 HAMADI
ft.~~~~~//
arm', .,                                                                                                            zf oi'',                                     HAA,A
7i,,,'wmd,'rS 5,1ds 0' iwom StOW',iV 
ISRAEL~
hlematon_lFanceCorcball1                                                                                                                                            74,'.9,5 ',
5r rn, r mBo Y oC ank               ~            N,                                                                                                                    i.
-     +     .                                       >i\                                                                                                 DAPAW       |
OSAB FEPUBL C OF
C. --d   Ih,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                                       '
L  s r D A N                                                              077W hile 9310', 0,74'n,et m3p ISouthl S  32                           0           I-h



