DOUMENTS LOAN NUMBER 2270 ECT
Loan Agreement
(Irrigation Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 ,1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2270 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                         o    , 1983, between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (hereina ter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General. Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "MED" means the Mechanical and Electrical Devartment
of the Borrower's Ministry of Irrigation.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-one million five hundred thousand dollars ($41,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be gov-
erned by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to one hundred three thousand four hundred ninety-one
dollars ($103,491).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount .of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For the interest period commencing June 1, 1983, the
interest rate shall be 10.97% per annum.
(d) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means     the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.


﻿- 3 -
(iii)  "Qualified Borrowings" means: (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985; the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1935.
(iv)  "Semester" means the first     six months or    the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that MED will
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate engineering, financial and adminis-
trative practices; and (b) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that MED will: (a)
assign an adequate number of qualified civil engineers for super-
vising all civil works under the Project and for carrying out
regular maintenance of civil works; and (b) assign not less than
twelve electrical engineers and an adequate number of technicians
for operating the laboratpries to be established under Part B (3)
of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause MED to maintain,
until the completion of the Project, the unit established within
MED for the preparation of the Project and to assign to said unit
the responsibility for: (a) the preparation of bidding documents
and evaluation of bids under the Project; (b) the preparation of
the applications required for withd-awing the proceeds of the
Loan and the maintenance of the Project accounts referred to in
Section 4.02 hereof; and (c) the preparation of the reports
referred to in Sections 3.08 (b) (iv), 3.08 (d), and 4.03 hereof.


﻿,4-
Section 3.04. In order to assist MED in the carrying out of
Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall cause MED to employ,
not later than March 31, 1984, consultants whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the prin-
ciples and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure the installation,
not later than December 31, 1985, -of the 11-KV transmission lines
required for the adequate supply of electric power to the pumping
stations Faraskur, Gharak 1, 2 and 3, shown in the Annex to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause MED:
(a) to complete the preparation of the maintenance sched-
ules referred to in Part C (1) of the Project by December 31,
1984 and thereafter to undertake all maintenance works in accord-
ance with such schedules;
(b) to monitor the carrying out of such works through a
program of inspection and review; and
(c)  to establish and operate, not later than March 31,
1985, the cost accounting system and the store inventory system
provided under Part C (2)' and Part C (3) of the Project,
respectively.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower. shall cause MED to furnish
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, reports, contract documents and construction and


﻿- 5 -
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MED: (i) to maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) to enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any records
and documents relevant to the Project; (iii) to furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
-of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds; and (iv) without limitation on the provi-
sions of the preceding paragraph (iii), to prepare and to furnish
to the Bank quarterly reports on the progress of activities under
the Project.
(c) 'Upon the award by the Borrower or MED of any contract
for goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare, through MED, and fur-
nish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿- 6 -
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreIgn exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Bczrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank nr
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause MED to maintain
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MED: (i) to have the sepa-
rate accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate audit-
ing principles consistently applied, by      independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) to furnish to the Bank as soon as


﻿-7-
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) to furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said separate accounts and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause MED: (a) to prepare,
starting with the fiscal year 1983/1984, an an-ual monitoring and
evaluation report in accordance with a format satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) to provide the Bank with a copy of each such report
not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year
covered by it.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure, through appropriate
annual budgetary allocation, the availability of all funds
required for the operation of all pumping stations under the
jurisdiction of MED and for the maintenance of such stations in
accordance with the maintenance schedules to be prepared under
Part C (1) of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date OrCL4 , 973, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Investment and International
Cooperation or the Under Secretary for International Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Investment and
International Cooperation
(International Finance Department)
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Egypt


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTRY OF INVESTMENT             GAFEC UN 348
AND INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION      INVEST UN 92235
Cairo, Egypt
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Machinery and            32,600,000           100% of foreign
equipment under                              expenditures
Part A of the
Project
(2) Machinery and             3,910,000           100% of foreign
equipment under                              expenditures,
Parts B and D                                100% of local
of the Project                               expenditures
ex-factory and
80% of local
expenditures
for imported
items procured
locally
(3) Consultants'                475,000           100%
services
(4) Fee under Section           103,491          Amount due
2.05 of this Agree-
ment
(5) Unallocated               4,411,509
TOTAL         41,500,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The  disbursement   percentages  have   been  calculated   in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or seivices or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in the aggregate amount of $2,000,000 equivalent may
be made under Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1983.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may con-
tinue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 11 -
6.   If the   Bank  shall have reasonably determined     that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The major objectives of the Project are to improve the irri-
gation and drainage pumping stations in the Project Area and to
strengthen the operation and maintenance capabilities of MED.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Pumping Stations
(1) Rehabilitation of the 30 pumping stations in the locations
shown in the Annex to this Schedule, as follows:
(a) replacement of pump units and other equipment in fif-
teen stations, one of such stations to be newly
constructed; and
(b) provision   of  the  spare  parts and   other equipment
required for the rehabilitation of fifteen additional
stations.
(2) Provision of spare parts required for pumping stations other
than those to be rehabilitated under (1) above.
Part B:   Maintenance Facilities and Equipment; Houses
(1) Establishment and'equipping of 3 central workshopG in
MED's Directorates in El-Wady (Sharkia), Naga Hamadi
(Qena) and Kom Ombo (Aswan), capable of handling major
maintenance and repair works.
(2) Establishment and equipping of 15 regional workshops
capable of handling ordinary repair and maintenance
works.
(3) Establishment and equipping of six electrical laborato-
ries for the testing, calibration and repair of the
electrical equipment of pumping stations.
(4) Provision of vehicles, motorcycles, trucks and other
equipment.
(5) Construction of houses for pump operators and workshop
technicians.


﻿- 13 -
Part C:   Institutional Improvements
Establishment within MED of:
(1) maintenance schedules designed for all pumping stations
operated by MED;
(2) a cost accounting system designed to determine the
actual operation and maintenance cost of each pumping
station operated by MED; and
(3) a store inventory system designed to reflect avail-
ability and distribution of spare parts for pumping
stations and to forecast purchase requirements.
Part D:   Central Control System
Establishment of a central control system for the pumping
stations on the Nasr Canal, located in the Borrower's region of
West Nubariya.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 14 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Pumping Stations to be Rehabilitated
under Part A (1) of the Project
Proposed Type of
Pumping Station        Governorate   Function    Rehabilitation
A. Lower Egypt
1. Atf (main)      Beheira  -    Irrigation      RPR*
2. Edku                                          RPL**
3. Delingat                      Drainage        RPL
4. Deshudi            "                          RPL
5. Truga              "                          RPL
6. Thawra - 1                    Irrigation       RPL
7. Hamoul          Kafr Sheik        "           RPR
8. Bahr Tiraa                    Drainage         RPR
9. Burullos           "                           RPL
10. Busat           Dakahliya     Irrigation       RPR
11. Balamun            "              "           RPL
12. Kafr Saad       Damiet            "            RPR
13. Faraskur           "          Drainage        RPR
14. El Wady         Sharkiya      Drainage/       RPR
Irrigation
15. Qassassin                     Drainage        RPR
16. Hanout                        Drainage/        RPR
Irrigation
17. Abu Menagga     Qalubiya      Irrigation       RPR
B. Upper Egypt
18. Gharak - 1      Fayum         Drainage        RPL
19. Gharak - 2         "              "            RPL
20. Gharak - 3         "          Drainage/        RPL
Irrigation
21. Khiyam          Qena          Irrigation      RPL
22. El Nil          Aswan             "            RPR
*    RPR = repair of pump units.
**   RPL = replacement of pump units.


﻿- 15 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Pumping Stations to be Rehabilitated
under Part A of the Project
Proposed Type of
Pumping Station        Governorate   Function    Rehabilitation
B. Upper Egypt (continued)
23. Radissia - 1    Aswan         Irrigation      RPL
24. Radissia - 2       "              "            RPL
25. Wady Abbady - 1    "              "            RPR
26. Wady Abbady - 2    "f                          RPR
27. Wady Abbady - 3    "                          RPR
28. Wady Abbady - 4    "                           RPR
29. Bayara III                                     CON*
30. Raqaba                                         RPL
*    Construction of pumping station, including provision of pump
units and related equipment.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1988
through   December 1, 2002                  1,385,000
On June 1, 2003                                   1,335,000


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
before maturity
More than three years but not                      0.30
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                        0.55
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.80
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                           1.00
before maturity


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days ---ior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tendet .r prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a. general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be-procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For -the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 19 -
Egypt may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Egypt
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 20 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items of equipment and materials required for the
rehabilitation of the pumping stations referred to in Part A (1)
(b) of the Project and estimated to cost the equivalent of not
more than $4,000,000, may be procured from the original manufac-
turers of such stations' pumps .under contracts negotiated in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Items of equipment and materials estimated to cost the
equivalent of not more than $100,000 per contract and $500,000 in
the aggregate may be procured on the basis of quotations obtained
from not less than three reliable suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts (other than those to be
concluded in accordance with the procedures described in Part C
above) estimated each to cost more than $100,000 equivalent:
(a)  Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it


﻿- 21 -
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, or
price quotations, as the case may be, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Ceitifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  kZ    day of        . , 198J.
FOR SECRETARY


