Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIICLL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4310-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATTON
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 42.6 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
RECOVERY PROGRAM
May 27, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1.00        =    K 6.90
Kwacha 1.00         US$ 0.14
(The US Dollar/Zambian Kwacha exchange rate
shown above is the rate that prevailed at
the end of March 1986.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.62 miles
1 sq kilometer (km2)  =  0.386 sq miles
I metric ton (tonne)  =  1,000 kg = 2,204.6 pounds
I liter               =  1.057 US quarts = 0.22 Imp. gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC      =     Agricultural Finance Corporation
AfDB           African Development Bank
BOZ            Bank of Zambia
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
FRG      =     Federal Republic of Germany
GNP            Gross National Product
INDECO   =     Industrial Development Corporation
MAWD           Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
MEMACO         Metal Marketing Corporation of Zambia Limited
MLTL     =     Medium and Long Term Loans
NAMBOARD       National Agricultural Marketing Board
Tazara   =     Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority
ZADB     =     Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
ZCCM           Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZIMCO    =     Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation, Limited
FISCAL YEAR
ZR:  April 1 - March 31
GRZ: January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
7ZMBIA
RECOVERY PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Republic of Zambia
Beneficiaries:                Importers
Amount:                       SDR 42.6 Million (US$50 million equivalent).
Terms:                        Standard.
Program Description:          The objective of this credit is to help
provide the minimum level of imports needed
for Zambia's Recovery Program and thereby to
help sustain the momentum of the policy and
institutional reforms. This will allow the
productive sectors of the economy to respond
to the Incentives and favorable economic
environment established by the reforms and
provide the Increased supply of goods and
services needed to support structural change
in the economy. The Credit will finance: a)
Imports of goods with an excepted ltst of
defense and luxury consumer goods, and b)
technical assistance and training to improve
foreign exchange management by the Bank of
Zambia, to audit implementation of Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mines' 5-year Production
and Investment Plan, -to improve debt
management in the Ministry of Finance, and to
devise a mechanism for limiting maize
subsidies to low income famtlies.
Terms to Beneficiaries:      For the imports component (US$48.8 million
equtvalent), the credit proceeds would be sold
at the auctton-determined exchange rate.
Funds allocated for technical assistance to
the Bank of Zambia and Ministry of Agriculture
and Water Development would be made available
on a grant basis. The remainder of the
technical assistance would be managed by the
Ministry of Finance. The total allocation for
technical assistance would be US$1.2 million
equivalent.
Benefits:                    By increasing domestic supplies of spare
parts, raw materials, intermediate goods and
other productive inputs, as well as basic
consumption goods, the project would support
the recovery of Zambia's economy. The policy
and institutional reforms supported by the
project would contribute to raising efficiency
and help bring about the structural changes
needed for stable long-term growth. The
This docunent ha a estrted distibution nd may be used by rcipients only in the perfomnance
o fthek orkieW duti Its contents may not otherwise be dbdosed without World Pink authoizato n.



rationalization of public expenditure
would ensure a better focus to public sector
recurrent and investment spending, thereby
allowing such spending to make a more positive
contribution to the recovery and
diversification effort.
Risks:                        The main risk facing the project is the delay,
or possibly even a reversal, of the policy and
institutional reforms supported by the
project. This risk is limited by: a) the
Government's strong commitment to the reform
effort as evidenced by continuation of the
reforms in recent months; b) the growing
national consensus in Zambia concerning the
severity of the crisis; and c) the expected
benefits, in terms of increased output and
exports, from the proposed credit. The credit
would be tranched to ensure continuation of
the reform program.
Estimated Disbursements:                    US$ Million
IDA FY87      50.0
Appraisal Report:             None.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA FOR A RECOVERY PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Zambia of SDR 42.6 million (approximately US$50
million equivalent) on standard terms to help finance a Recovery Program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 5000-ZA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 24, 1984. An economic
mission visited Zambia in September/October 1985 to review the recent
economic developments and medium-term prospects and its report is scheduled
for distribution In June 1986. Also, a Public Expenditure Review mission
visited Zambia In February 1986 and its report is due for distribution in
August 1986. The findings of these missions are reflected in this report.
Country Data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.        Zambia is a large landlocked country with a land area of 752,614
km2, a population of 6.4 million (1984) and a population density of only
8.5 per km2. This makes Zambia very dependent on transport facilities both
at home and in neighboring countries. Zambia's main resources are large
mineral (mainly copper) reserves and relatively rich agricultural
potential. Copper mining has made a significant contribution to economic
development so far, but the reserves are likely to be substantially
depleted in about two decades. Agricultural potential has been largely
neglected even though the climate and land are favorable for the production
of a wide range of crops, which can be exported or substituted for imports.
4.        Zambia has a mineral-based duallstic economy that depends heavily
on external trade and government activity. Mining provides over 90 percent
of foreign exchange earnings and 15 percent of gross value added. Imports
and exports range between 35 and 40 percent of GDP. Government
expenditures varied between 35 and 45 percent of GDP during the early
1980s. The Government owns a majority sbare in mining and most
manufacturing enterprises and dominates the nationwide marketing and
distribution activities. Much economic activity is dependent on expatriate
technical, managerial and administrative skills.
5.        Zambia's current economic and financial problems were initiated
by a sharp decline in the copper price in 1975. Zambia's terms of trade
have deteriorated steadily since then, and by 1984, were 70 percent below
the average for the early 1970s. Real GDP has has been in a general



- 2 -
downward trend since 1975, declining on an average by about 1.5 percent per
year through 1984. With population growing by 3.1 percent per annum, real
GDP per capita in 1984 was 25 percent lower than in 1974. The balance of
payments has been in chronic disequilibrium since 1975, with current
account deficits climbing to an average of 19 percent of GDP in 1980-82.
Nevertheless, the volume of imports declined steadily and is now 50 percent
below its level in 1980 and 75 percent below its level in 1974. This has
resulted in an economy-wide problem of severe underutilization of capacity
and, especially in the mining sector, a large backlog of maintenance and
rehabilitation expenditure.
6.        The large current account deficits have also led directly to
Zambia's high level of external indebtedness. At the end of 1985, Zambia's
total external liabilities stood at US$5.0 billion, including drawings from
the IMF (US$600 million), US$580 million in debt service arrears and about
US$600 million in overdue commercial payments. By comparison, exports of
goods and services amounted to about US$900 million, and scheduled debt
service obligations amounted to over 70 percent of export earnings.
7.        There is no doubt that Zambia's present economic difficulties
have been caused in part by exogenous factors over which the Government has
little or no control (e.g. low copper prices, rising cost of copper
productlon as ore reserves are depleted; transport difficulties in
neigbhboring countries, and recurrent severe droughts). Nevertheless,
inappropriate policies and shortcomings in economic management have
exacerbated the economic difficulties. Exchange rate and tariff policies
encouraged the use of imported raw materials and other inputs and
discouraged the use of local materials and the development of non-mineral
exports. As a result, a highly capital and import-intensive productive
structure was created. Tax incentives and low interest rates have also
contributed to a pattern of capital-intensive investment. Pricing and
subsidy policies favored the urban consumer at the expense of the
agricultural producer, and controlled industrial prices led to low
profitability in the manufacturing sector, limiting available resources for
reinvestment.
Recent Economic Development and Policy Reforms
8.        Zambia's real GDP declined four successive years through 1985,
with real GDP per capita dropping about 16 percent below that in 1981.
Almost all the economic sectors have shared in the dismal performance of
the economy except for the agricultural and the real estate and business
services sectors. However, a major contributory factor to the overall
decline has been the poor production performance of the mining sector,
which has been particularly devastating when coupled with the declining
copper prices. The effects of the ensuing foreign exchange shortage have
been severe.



- 3 -
9.        Mining.  The copper industry worldwide has experienced a severe
depression In recent years, which has led to mine closures and
rationalization of operaticas in a number of countries. Copper prices,
which averaged US¢95/lb during 1979-80 (already somewhat depressed in real
terms from the mid-1960s), fell sharply to 72t/lb in 1983, 62¢/lb in 1984
and 644/lb in 1985. In Zambia, the adverse effects of depressed prices
have been exacerbated by the rising cost of production caused by geologtcal
factors. Ore bodies have become progressively more difficult to work as
mining depths have increased and the average copper grade of the ore has
declined. In addition, copper production has been constrained by a growing
shortage of spare parts, materials, and even fuel for mining operations
caused by both inadequte provision of foreign exchange to Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (ZCCM) and the company's inefficient use of
the available foreign exchange. As a result, copper production continued
to decline from an annual average of 597,000 tonnes in 1979-80 to 525,000
tonnes in 1984 and 479,000 tonnes in 1985.
10.       Nevertheless, the major share of recent production decreases can
be attrlbuted to managerial and economic factors. ZCCM responded to its
growing economic difficulties by trying to maintain current production
levels at the expense of mine development. This practice led to
increasingly ioefficient mining operations and a high level of dilution of
the resulting ore. In the past three years, however, important changes
have been introduced within a major rehabilitation vrogram which should
help stabilize production and increase mine development. In this
connection, inventory consolidation and improved stock management, which
were made possible by the merger of two former companies under ZCCM in
1982, is producing additional cost savings and more efficient utilization
of spare parts. ZCCM has also been able to reduce its labor force, both
local and foreign staff, through attrition and layoffs. The Government has
permitted improvements in the methods of remunerating expatriate workers,
so that ZCCM Is now able to attract and retain higher quality staff. ZCCM
has also established a corporate planning unit to develop a comprehensive
financial strategy and examine how to streamline operations. Finally, a
number of technical studies have recently been completed which are forming
the basis of the further improvements in the mining industry as part of the
Government's overall reform program, including the closure of uneconomic
mines, measures to improve labor productivity and formulation of a
medium-term investment and production program.
11.       Agriculture.  The performance of the agricultural sector has
improved substantially in recent years. After declining at an average rate
of about 3 percent per annum during 1978-82, agricultural value added
Increased by 8.4 percent in 1983, 5.6 percent in 1984, and 9.2 percent in
1985. The Government's recent reform measures in agriculture, particularly
increased producer prices, as well as favorable weather conditions, have
contributed to the improved performance of the sector. Preliminary results
ior the 1984/85 harvest indicate that  oaize production, estimated at 1.1
million tons (of which 760,000 tons were marketed), came close to Zambia's
domestic consumption requirements for the first time since 1976. Other



-4-
crops such as wheat, soya beans, sunflower, sugar and coffee reached their
highest production levels In the last 10 years. The 1985/86 harvest is
expected to meet domestic demand for maize and most other crops.
12.       Notwithstanding the recent production increases, the development
of Zambia's agriculture has remained far below potential. Of the estimated
60 million ha. of arable land, only about 12 million ha. or 20 percent is
currently cultivated. Total cropped area has not increased much since 1970
(only 2 percent during 1970-81) and higher yields were not a significant
source of growth for most crops, except for wheat and soyabeans. Maize,
groundnuts, seed cotton and tobacco yields have, until recently, remained
stagnant or have actually declined over the years. While external factors
have hindered the development of the agricultural sector, especially the
shortage of foreign exchange and periodic droughts, the major constraints
have been the result of inappropriate government policies and programs. In
particular, producer prices have been subject to government control and,
until four years ago, were kept substantially below border price
equivalents. In addition, the exchange rate provided inadequate incentive
for the development of various export crops. Other institutional
constraints included inefficient produce marketing and input distribution
systems, poor agricultural research and extension services which were
geared mainly to commercial farmers rather than the much larger smallholder
sector, and inefficient systems for the delivery of agricultural credit and
land tillage services.
13.       In order to overcome these constraints, the Government has taken
some significant policy actions, including substantial increases in
producer prices during the past four years, and a reduction of the tax rate
on agricultural income to a flat 15 percent. Also, despite budgetary
constraints, a redeployment of extension services towards smallholders has
begun in connection with several rural development projects started in the
early 1980s. In addition, the Government agreed in 1984 on a comprehensive
program of agricultural reform policies in connection with an Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project. As part of this program, significant policy
actions have already been taken or are being formulated, tncluding
decontrol of wheat prices and tractor hire charges, the establishment of a
pricing methodology based on border prices, opening up of maize marketing
and fertilizer distribution to private traders (private traders have always
been free to trade in goods other than maize and fertilizer), and studies
on fertilizer usage and the efficiency of agricultural marketing agencies.
Finally, a major study of Zambia's agricultural research and extension
service has been completed and is being used as the basis for preparing a
long-term program to strengthen these services and orient them more toward
the smallholder sector.
14.       Manufacturing.  Zambia has a relatively large and diversified
manufacturing sector, which accounted for 21 percent of GDP in 1984.
Manufacturing output has basically staznated since the late 1970s. Value
added in the sector increased by about 12 percent in 1981, but subsequently
decreased three years in a row, returning in 1984 to below the level of



-5-
1980. Much of the decline reflected the growing shortage of foreign
exchange, whfeb has led to the progressive decreases in the avatlability of
intermediate goods and spare parts. There have also been recurrent
shortages of cooking oil, detergents, hand soap and other essential
domestic manufactures.
15.       Despite its poor performance in the past, the manufacturing
sector in Zambia has the technical expertise and adequate capacity to
develop new lines of manufacturing exports and import substitutes. For
this, however, the sector needs considerable reorientation in order to
allow it to play a more dynamic role in Zambia's economic recovery. Past
government policies have supported inefficient firms through: (a) exchange
rate and tariff policies which encouraged the use of imported raw materials
and other inputs at the expense of local materials; (b) tax incentives and
low interest rates which encouraged a pattern of capital intensive
investment; and (c) over-emphasis on heavily protected import substitution
activities wbicb permitted local industries to develop in a cost permissive
environment.
16.       Recent changes in various macroeconomic and trade policies are
setting the basis for a restructuring of the manufacturing sector towards
resource-based industries in line with Zambia's comparative advantages.
Most importantly, the exchange rate adjustments, following the introduction
of the foreign exchange auction system in October 1985, should help promote
new export activities and the use of local raw materials.  Secondly, the
decontrol of wholesale and retail prices, which took place back in December
1982, Is helping to restore the profitability of firms whose expansion bad
been curtailed by price controls, many of which produce basic consumer
goods with a high domestic content. Thirdly, increases in domestic
interest rates, almost tripling since 1983 to 30-40 percent on commercial
bank loans, should encourage a more labor-intensive structure of
production. Finally, in the area of trade policy, the liberalization of
the import licensing system, which accompanied the foreign exchange auction
and several changes in the tariff system limiting its use for protective
purposes, will substantially open Zambia's formerly protected industrial
sector to international competition. On the exports side, export
formalities have been simplified, the tax rate on profits from
non-traditional exports has been reduced and an Export Promotion Board has
been establisbed to assist enterprises with export potential to develop or
expand the markets for Zambian goods.
17.       Balance of Payments.  Zambia's receipts from exports of goods and
services bave been on a declining trend since 1980. This reflects the
downward trend in both the volume of copper production and world copper
prices. The slack in copper exports (80-85 percent of merchandise exports)
has been picked up to a limited extent by non-copper exports comprising
other minerals (e.g., cobalt, lead, zinc) and a narrow range of
manufactures and agricultural products. Declining exports, coupled with
large debt service obligations, have severely constrained Zambia's import
capacity. The volume of imports in 1985 was about 40 percent less than in



- 6 -
1982, and the decline was particularly severe in the Imports of raw
materials and capital goods, with considerable impact on overall economic
activity.
18.       The current account deficit on the balance of payments was
reduced considerably in 1983-85, to about 6 percent of GDP on average.
This compares with an average of 18 percent for 1980-82, and represents
considerable progress in the Government's financial stabilization program,
albeit at considerable cost to production and consumption levels. Debt
reschedultng in 1983 and 1984 and debt service arrears in 1985 contributed
two to three percentage points of the 12 point reduction in the current
account deficit. In terms of original maturities falling due, nearly $400
million of principal and interest was rescheduled in each of 1983 and 1984
under the framework of Paris Club agreements and agreements wtth commercial
lenders and non-OECD countries. The thin administrative capacity of the
Government has, however, prevented negotiation and signing of individual
rescheduling agreements with some creditors. The continuation of lower
copper prices and lower capital inflows in 1984 and 1985 has resulted in
the accumulation of substantial debt service arrears in 1985 (The 1985
arrears were rescheduled along with the 1986 maturities earlier this
year).
19.       Continued economic deterioration led the Government to recognize
the permanent nature of the imbalance in its external accounts.
Overvaluation of the kwacha, combined with a cumbersome system of import
controls, constituted a major impediment to Zambia's economic recovery.
The administrative system of import licences had become grossly inefficient
and unsatisfactory as a tool for allocating foreign exchange.
Consequently, the Government decided inttially in 1983 on a 20 percent
devaluation of the kwacha and then introduced an 'adjustable peg' exchange
rate system. The latter led to a further real reduction of 13 percent in
the value of the kNacha through the end of 1984. Despite these measures,
Zambia's external liquidity position became extremely precarious during
1985, and it became clear to the Government that there was need for
deep-seated structural changes in the economy. The foreign exchange
auction and the import liberalization program which were introduced on
October 4, 1985, represent a major change In economic policy. The new
emphasls is toward reliance on market forces to determine the appropriate
exchange rate, allocate foreign exchange, raise the competitiveness of
Zambian goods in external markets, and increase the efficiency of domestic
production.
20.       Public Finances.  In recent years, Zambia has pursued relatively
cautious fiscal policies and made considerable efforts to consolidate the
investment program and to strengthen its planning and budgets- oystems.
The Government was able to reduce its fiscal deficit in tandem with the
reduction in the current account deficit, but at considerable cost to its
investment program and the delivery of development oriented services. The
overall fiscal deficit was reduced from 19 percent of GDP in 1982 to 7
percent of GDP in 1983-84, wbile government borrowing from the domestic



-7-
banking system was reduced from 14 percent of GDP in 1982 to 3-4 percent of
GDP in each of the past two years. This was accomplIshed by an increase in
revenue, most notably by the introduction of a mineral export tax, while
expenditure remained approximately constant in nominal terms. Of
particular note was the Government's ability to contain its wage bill and
to reduce expenditure on subsidies during a period of accelerating domestic
prices. On the other hand, capital expenditure fell sharply in real
terms. Also, there was a decline in real terms in operating expenditure.
This meant less funds for the maintenance of roads and buildings, and
reduced the ability of health, education and agrtcultural extenston staff
to deliver routine services to the public.
21.       The Government's fiscal deficit increased substanttally during
1985 (23 percent of GDP) as a result of a major revision in the civil
service salary structure, higher operating costs following the exchange
rate depreciations of 1984 and 1985, an increase in the maize subsidy,
tncreases in domestic interest payments as a result of higher interest
rates and the usual lag in revenue response to sharp price increases during
the last quarter of the year. The growing budget deficit has been largely
financed through de facto rescheduling of interest payments on foretgn
debt, accumulation of arrears to local contractors and supplters, and
increased drawtngs on domestic bank credit. This was, however, a
transittonal situation. As part of a new IMF Standby program (approved on
February 21, 1986), the Government is expected to contain the budgetary
deficit during 1986 and lower it sharply in the following years (para.
24). The Government has already begun to take initial steps to cut
expenditures on personnel, restructure the tax system to improve its
buoyancy and provide greater Incentives, and improve cost recovery for
government services (e.g., by reintroducing boarding fees in secondary
schools).
22.       The rapidly changing economic environment in Zambia has also
revealed weaknesses in the Government's capacity for policy analysis and
decision-making, particularly in areas such as the formulation of a public
expeaditure program, budgetary control and external debt management. Some
improvements have recently been accomplished in the area of planning and
budgeting. The budget structure has been revamped to provide a clearer
picture of expenditure categories, and the recurrent and capital accounts
have been consoltdated to provide greater flexibility in the establishment
of expendtture priorities. Budget procedures have been improved through
linking with a three-year rolltng Annual Plan. Also, planning capabilitties
in important sectoral ministries are being improved. Finally, a major
study of the tnstitutional requirements of the Ministry of Finance and the
National Commtsqion for Development Planning (which have been recently
placed under the same ministerial portfolio) has been completed, and the
recommendations of this study are serving as the basis of a new
IDA-financed technical asslstance project (IDA Credit No. 1679-ZA) for
strengthening the management practices and organizational structure of
these agencies.



PART II - MEDIUM-TERM RECOVERY PROGRAM
The Medium-Term Framework
23.       The Basic Strategy and Key Targets of Stabilization.  The main
objectives of Zamhia's economlc reforms are to: (i) create a sound macro-
economic policy environment conducive to the mobilization of domestic
savings and the efficient allocation of resources; (ii) restructure
economic incentives and encourage productive investment to achteve economic
growth and diversification of the production base; and (ili) move the
economy toward a sustainable external payments position. As noted above,
the Government has already introduced, since late 1982, important policy
and institutional reforms contributing to these objectives. With the
exchange rate and trade policy reforms, decontrol of interest rates and the
introduction of the Treasury Bill auction (to allow for more market-deter-
mination of interest rates and provide management with another instrument
to control liquidity) in September/October 1985, the Government has now put
in place a comprehensive program of economic stabilization, recovery and
structural adjustment. This program Is now being further developed and
implemented, as will be explained below, with additional policy and
Institutional changes along the lines envisaged by a new IMF Standby
program, as well as by the Bank's economic and sector work for Zambia.
24.       During the initial phase of the adiustment process, the principal
objective is economic stabilization, with the focus on reducing internal
and external imbalances and domestic inflation in order to ease the binding
constraints on recovery and structural change in production and
employment. Specifically, the fiscal and monetary policies within the
Standby program are expected to bring the fiscal position of the Government
under control, with the overall budget deficit declining from 24 percent in
1986 to 7 percent in 1987 and further to about 5-6 percent in 1988/89. The
sharp depreciation of the kwacha, decontrol of domestic prices and interest
rates, increased external debt service, and liquidation of external and
domestic budgetary arrears inflated the budgetary aggregates, especially on
the expenditure side, in the last quarter of 1985 and will continue to do
so in 1986, accounting for the large deficits in those years. The external
imbalance is expected to be brought under control with the help of a
market-determined exchange rate, supported by the tight monetary and fiscal
policies, and the increased support of the international donor community
through debt rescheduling an" exceptional aid. The Standby program, whose
q'iantitative framework forms the initial phase of the Bank-Fund joint
medium-term scenario for Zambia, envisages that the external current
account deficit would increase from 18 percent of GDP in 1985 to 25 percent
in 1986 and then decline to 21 percent in 1987.
25.       The design and implementation of Zambia's stabilization program
must obtain at the minimum the critical level of imports required for a
.supply response" in the economy so that even during the stabilization
period there will be some progress towards the national development



-9-
objectives,l/ particularly the growth and diversification of production
and exports.  During this initial phase of the adjustment, the aim is to
promote the rehabilitation and reorientation of the mineral and industrial
production base and the rapid growth of agricultural production and
exports. The growth of GDP is expected to pick up gradually from 1.5
percent in 1986 to 2.6 percent in 1987 and 4 percent in 1990. This supply
response, when combined with the tight demand management policies within
the Standby program, will help bring down the rate of inflation to around
30 percent tn 1987 after doubling to 50 percent in 1986.
26.       Medium-Term Prospects.  The prolonged downward trend of the
economy affecting all the key economic varlables (e.g. production, exports,
imports, capital formation, productive employment) must be reversed If
Zambia's social and political institutions are to be relieved of the unduly
heavy strain that they have endured the past several years. While rapid
recovery Is not feasible, an overall growth rate of 2.8 percent per annum
during 1986-90 and 4.5 percent in 1991-95, with the accompanying sectoral
growth targets as shown In Table 1, are the maximum possihle In Zambia's
circumstances and would represent a creditable improvement over past
performance and lay the basis for long-term restructuring.
1 Zambia's development objectives, articulated in several Party (UNIP) and
government documents, include attaining self-reliance, diversifying the
economy, achieving a high rate of growth of GDP with reasonable price
stability, reducing the rate of unemployment, speeding up the process of
Zambianizatlon, reducing income disparities between the rural and urban
sectors and establishing an egalitarian society. Prerequisite to these
objectives, however, Is satisfactory progress on the objectives of the
current reform program referred to in para. 23.



- 10 -
Table 1: MACROECONOMIC GROWTH PROSPECTS AND DOMESTIC RESOURCE
REQUIREMENTS, 1986-1995
(at 1984 prices)
Average Annual Growth (Z)    Share of GDP (X)
1986-90     1991-95       1985   1990   1995
Gross Domestic Product               2.8         4.5       100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                        5.6         5.0        16.8   18.7   19.1
Mining                             0.9         0.2        13.3   11.8    9.5
Industry                          5.6          5.6       25.3   28.1   29.5
Services                           1.7         3.4       44.6   41.4   41.9
Exports (G&NFS)                      2.4         1.8        34.2   33.5   30.1
Imports (G&NFS)                      2.5         3.5        36.3   35.7   34.6
Consumption                          1.9         4.3        89.4   85.5   84.5
Public                             1.4         3.0       25.3   23.6   22.0
Private                           2.1          4.7       64.1   61.9   62.5
Gross Investment                     1.7         8.2        12.7   16.8   20.0
Gross Domestic Savings              11.5         6.8        11.2   16.8   20.1
GNP Per Capita                     -0.2          1.4
Consumption Per Capita             -1.5          0.9
Private Consumption Per Capita    -1.3           1.3
Terms of Trade Index                 2.1         1.7
27.       Attaining these overall and sectoral growth targets is deemed
possible given the production potentials of the major economic sectors.
ZCCM's rehabilitation program, the new Tailings Leach plant and the
development of small non-copper mining operations are expected to help
stabilize mining production through 1995 and achieve a small increase -
one half of 1.0 percent per annzm - in value added of the mining sector
through productivity increases. Value added in agriculture should continue
growing at a high rate in response to the recent liberalization of
agricultural prices and marketing and government programs and policies
encouraging agriculture. But the average growth rate of agriculture over
the next decade is taken to be lower than in recent years because part of
the recent high growth represents recovery from the drought. Industrial
value added can be expected to show strong growth mainly through improved
capacity utilization as a result of some relaxation of the foreign exchange
constraint and the removal of price controls. This initial gain is
expected to be consolidated through the rationalization of production
(e.g. reducing unit costs and import dependence) and management



- 11 -
in response to the strengthening the market and price mechanisms. In the
second half of the period under consideration (1991-95), investment in new
capacity should contrlbute to maintaining a high rate of growth in
industry. The service sector will receive a boost from the strong
performance of industry and agriculture but its growth rate will be
tempered by the stagnation in the mining sector and the Government's policy
of retrenchment In the civil service.
28.       The Zambian economy has been characterized by distortions and
inefficiencies in overall resource use. Improvements in the productivity
of resources in their existing uses and in new investments are a major
objective of the Government's economic policy and institutional reforms.
While the sectoral adjustment programs will constitute the Government's
primary means for achieving this objective, trade strategy, employment and
incomes policies and fiscal policies of the Governmment will also make
important contributions toward this goal. Such a relationship between
output and investment in Zambia over the next decade is reflected in the
investment/GDP ratio rising from 12.7 percent in 1985 to 16.8 percent in
1990 and 20 percent in 1995 (Table 1). This would mean a recovery to the
level attained in the early 1980s, but is still considerably below the
level of the mid-1970s (i.e., 40-50 percent of GDP).
29.       Critical as the external financial position is to Zambia's
stabilization prospects, the massive burden of external debt, the
constrained outlook for exports, and the limited availability of new aid
funds imply that external resources will not constitute any significant
source of finance for Zambia's investment requirements. The economy is
envisaged to have a small positive resource balance (exports surplus) every
year over the next decade (Table 2). The level of domestic savings will
therefore constitute a critical constraint on the economy's ability to
respond to the new structure of incentives. Zambia's domestic savings
effort is expected to be assisted hy gains in Its external terms of trade.
Indeed, based on the World Bank's commodity price projections, Zambia would
benefit from a gain in the terms of trade equivalent to 2.6 percent of GDP
by 1990 and 3.6 percent by 1995. However, it will require an effort by the
Government to ensure that gains from changes in the terms of trade are not
dissipated in consumption increases, as painful as this policy may be, but
instead are used to provide the savings needed for the diversification and
growth of the economy.



- 12 -
Table 2: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS REQUIRED FOR GROWTH, 1985-94
(In millions of US dollars)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990    1994
Exports, f.o.b.                817    940  1,015  1,105  1,204  1,327   1,764
Imports, f.o.b.                642    666    730    803    884    966   1,334
Non-factor services, net      -218    232   -249   -268   -290   -316    -405
Resource Balance             -43     42      36     34      29     45       25
Factor Services, net          -324   -347   -364   -379   -394   -390    -392
(Interest Payments)         (255)  (278)  (294)  (309)  (323)  (318)   (313)
Current Transfer, net          -50    -50    -53    -53    -54    -55       -60
Current Account Balance    -416   -355   -379   -398   -419   -413    -423
Official Grants                 71      75    100    105    110    116       141
Direct Foreign Investment       -        -     15     20      20     20       20
Medium and Long-Term Loans    -61    -80    -47        13     75     58       67
Amortization                -315   -294   -279   -254   -203   -238    -138
Disbursements                254    214    232    267    278    296       389
Net IMF                        -96      30    -61   -154    -64    -           _
Commercial Arrears              -4    -30    -30    -30    -30    -30       -30
Change in Reserves/Errors &
Omissions (-increase)        -40     -3    -11    -13    -17    -17       -23
External Financing Gap a/    -578   -363   -413   -303   -325   -266    -248
Memorandum Items
Debt Service Ratio b, (Z)  | 73.5   72.3   70.2   61.2   46.5   39.8    33.7
a Assuming that the gap is filled by borrowing on blend terms of 15 years
maturity, 5 years of grace and 10 percent interest. The recent debt
reschedullng by the Paris Club is not reflected in the projections.
h  Including MLTL, short-term debt and IMF repurchases and charges.
30.       The Government has already taken many difficult decisions to
restrain the growth of expenditures and to increase the level of resource
mobilization in the economy (para. 20-22). In order to reach the target
rate of savings required by the economic scenario described in Table 1, the
Government will need to constrain the growth of public consumption
(recurrent expenditure) to 1.4 percent per annum in real terms during
1986-90 and 3 percent in 1991-95. Increases in consumption by the private
sector, which currently provides the only significant source of savings in
Zambia, will have to be limited to 2.1 percent per annum (a decline of 1.3
percent in per capita consumption) during 1986-90. This will permit
aggregate domestic savings to increase by 11.5 percent a year in the same
period and reach 17 percent of GDP by 1990. Government policies



- 13 -
particularly pertaining to taxation, interest rates and wage setting and
the establishment of a favorable environment for investment will contribute
to the achievement of this savings performance.
External Finance Requirements
31.       As already noted, to start the recovery process, Zambia must
first improve its extremely precarious external liquidity position. This
requires that the Government make determined efforts to encourage exports
and efficient import substitution and to resolve the problem caused by
large debt servicing obligations and external payment arrears. The last
issue is particularly important to the initiation of a recovery process
since it is a major obstacle to the resumption of aid flows to Zambia and
to its return to the normal international channels of trade. The magnitude
and nature of Zambia's debt service obligations are such that the problem
cannot be resolved solely through improvements in exports and import
substitution. Debt rescheduling arrangements with the donor countries are
also required.
32.       In the foreseeable future Zambia will continue to meet the major
part of its foreign exchange requirements by earnings from exports of
minerals, particularly copper. With the progress of ZCCM's rehabilitation
program, the opening-up of the new Tailings Leach Plant, and the relaxation
of the foreign exchange constraint on imported inputs, the export of copper
will recover to the 1984 level of 535,000 tonnes by 1987 and would then
maintain that level on average through 1995. The crucial determinant of
Zambia's future foreign exchange earnings would then be thé world copper
price. A modest improvemeat both in the nominal and real topper price is
expected through 1995. Non-copper exports consist of cobalt (8-9 percent
of the total), zinc and lead (3-4 percent) and "others' (5 percent).
Cobalt exports should increase in volume by about 7 percent per annum
during 1986 and 1987 and remain constant thereafter. Exports of zinc and
lead will steadily decline and cease over the next 2-3 years, as existing
reserves are gradually depleted and the mines closed down in 1987. The
volume of other exports (agricultural and industrial products) are
projected to increase from a small base of about US$50 million in 1985 at
the rate of 10 percent per annum through 1990 and 13 percent thereafter in
response to the new economic policies designed to increase the
international competitiveness of domestic production.
33.       Although the economy has shown remarkable resilience in the past
to sharply declining levels of imports, there is no doubt that the pace of
economic growth has been considerably affected by the shortages of imported
capital goods, spare parts and inputs. It is not, of course, possible to
estimate with any certainty tLe critical level of imports that would be
required to move from the prolonged economic decline to the rates of growth
discussed above. However, considering the present low capacity utilization
rates, import substitution potential, the possible effects of the new
economic policies on the competitiveness of domestic production, and the
experience of some other countries at similar levels of development, an
overall import elasticity (with respect to GDP) of 0.9 during 1986-90 and
0.8 in 1991-95 seems to be appropriate to use for estimating Zambia's



- 14 -
imports requirements for growth . These overall import elasticities are
composed of the import elasticities for major commodity categories that
reflect: (i) a gradual decline in the share of imported goods,
particularly food, in incremental consumption . (ii) an increasing share of
domestically produced raw materials and other inputs in the industrial
sector's value added, and (iii) a decline in the import content of fixed
capital formation as investments shift to more labor-intensive projects.
Based on these assumptions, and using World Bank's commodity price
projections, the estimates of required merchandise imports fall
considerably below that of exports over the next decade (Table 2). The
substantial trade surplus, however, is likely to be eroded almost fully by
the negative balance on non-factor services caused larzely by freight and
insurance payments.
34.       The trade projections in Table 2 are based on the expectation
that the donor countries and international agencies will continue
supporting the Government's restructuring and development efforts through
(a) substantial increases in grant aid particularly in the initial years;
(b) an average increase of 5 percent in real terms in annual aid
commitments and (c) rezularizing Zambia's accumulated commercial arrears of
nearly US$600 million (as of end-1985) by an arrangement for annual
payments of US$30 million for principal and interest. However, this would
still leave a substantial financing gap, ranging between US$260 million and
US$410 million a year during 1987-90. With a debt service ratio which
would be over 70 percent in 1986-87 and 60 percent in 1988, Zambia will not
be able to obtain such financing. Therefore, closing this gap through
favorable debt reschedulings will be required for a number of years.
35.       The Bank reconvened the Consultative Group for Zambia in
December 1985 for the second time in six months to consider the
Government's program in light of these financing requirements. It was
considered essential by the group for Zambia to have the critical minimum
level of imports needed to sustain production and enable the Government's
reform program to take hold. The Consultative Group strongly endorsed the
Government's recent policy actions, especially the introduction of the
foreign exchange auction, and specific indications were given by the
various donors that the required level of assistance would be made
available. Most recently, Zambia presented its reform program to the Paris
Club which agreed to a complete rescheduling of Zambia's official bilateral
debt repayments falling due in 1986, including amounts previously
rescheduled, and those currently in arrears. With the additional
assistance pledged by the Consultative Group, including the proposed
credit, and the recent debt rescheduling by the Paris Club meeting, Zambia
will be able to close the 1986 external financing gap; but further efforts
by the Government to improve economic management as well as continued
support by thp donor community will he needed to maintain a viable external
balance over the medium term.
36.       Zambia is currently in good stead with the IMW.  A two-year
standby arrangement totalling SDR 229.8 million was approved by the Fund



- 15 -
Board on February 21, 1986, along with a Compensatory Financing Facility
amounting to SDR 68.8 million to compensate for the fall in export proceeds
resulting from a decline in copper production and prices during the past
several months. The program agreed with the Fund emphasizes strong fiscal
adjustment, through a combination of resource mobilization and expenditure
restraint, supported by a tight monetary policy and relative price
corrections. Thus, the budget deficit would be made consistent with
moderate recourse to domestic bank borrowing and monetary growth would be
kept low in support of price and exchange rate stability. Zambia is on the
list of countries eligible for recycled IMF Trust Fund repayments. A draft
medium-term policy framework paper has been prepared by the IMF staff and
reviewed at the working level by Bank staff. This paper has been discussed
with the Government by Fund staff and is now undergoing further discussion
in the Fund and in the Bank.
Macroeconomic Policies
37.       Foreign Exchange Regime and Trade Liberalization.  The
centerpiece of Zambia's reform program will continue to be the foreign
exchange auction system. The auction, which is held weekly, has gained the
confidence of both international observers and domestic participants and
symbolizes the entire program. For the time being, the Government retains
administrative allocations of foreign exchange for the mining industry,
foreign expenditures by the Government, and debt-service payments.
Nevertheless, the exchange rate determined by the auction applies to all
foreign exchange transactions, whether conducted through the auction or by
administrative allocation. Profits and dividends declared after
October 31, 1985, are eligible to be remitted through the auction, subject
to existing exchange control regulations, while payments in the commercial
arrears pipeline are to be settled by the Government according to a multi-
option scheme currently being prepared. Together with the auction, the
Government announced that import licenses will henceforth be issued without
restriction and will not be used to protect local industry, thereby
removing the major administrative restrictions on access to foreign
exchange in Zambia. The scope of the auction is being progressively
broadened. Some government purchases are being passed through the auction
and most recently, petroleum purchases and IATA payments have been included
as specified under the IMF's standby agreement. During negotiations,it was
agreed that the Government would undertake a study of the mechanisms for,
and implications of, including the remaining government services under the
auction and implement the appropriate recommendations. The study would be
completed by September 30, 1986, and the actions taken by March 31, 1987.
38.       The immediate effect of the auction was a substantial devaluation
of the kwacha versus foreign currencies. As of end-March, the auction rate
was approximately K6.9 per US dollar, as compared to a rate of K2.2 per
dollar immediately prior to the auction. The devaluation has resulted in
large price increases on a wide range of domestic goods, including
petroleum products (100-150 percent), bus fares (70 percent), trucking
services (80-95 percent), rail services (passenger - 33 percent; freight -
75 percent), bread (100 percent), sugar (49 percent) and beer (70
percent). Prices of international air tickets, telephone calls, telex
charges, and first class hotel rooms have been denominated in US dollars,
and the Government has made it clear that parastatal companies are expected



- 16 -
to adjust their prices to avoid operating losses. While price changes have
been clearly unpopular with consumers, businessmen have generally expressed
satisfaction with the auction in terms of its impartiality and more
flexible access to foreign exchange. Costs are being reduced through more
careful use of foreign exchange; i.e., more precise estimation of import
requirements and lower stocks of imported goods. In addition, some
importers have reported substantial discounts in foreign price quotations
for purchases financed with cash through the auction rather than by
suppliers' credits.
39.       In order to maintain a reasonably stable exchange rate and
develop confidence that foreign exchange will be available when required,
it is absolutely critical that the auction continue to have adequate
forelgn exchange on a regular basis and that losses resulting from delays
in investing or using these resources be avoided. It is estimated that a
weekly average of US$9 million is required for the import requirements
(minimum) of those items currently covered by the auction. Given the
depressed level of receipts from copper exports and the high debt-service
payments that must be made, the Government is unable to meet its other
obligations and sustain this allocation of foreign exchange without
substantial foreign assistance. Several donors are making funds available
through the auction for industrial and agricultural imports. Nevertheless,
additional financial assistance is urgently required to sustain the auction
in the coming months and to support broadening of its coverage.
40.       Foreign Exchange Management.  Also urgently required are
improvements in the management of the Bank of Zambia (BOZ), particularly
management of the country's foreign exchanze receipts and expenditures.
Better management of these transactions could save unnecessary interest or
other transaction charges. Currently, foreign exchange budgets are
prepared on a quarterly and, recently, monthly basis; but these are being
inadequately utilized by BOZ's management. Various options are currently
under review with BOZ and the IMF involving, at a minimum, a review of the
organization of BOZ by consultants to ensure that the necessary flows of
data and information are available to BOZ's management. Under the proposed
project, the Government is expected to implement necessary improvements in
foreign exchange management, including the preparation of weekly cash flow
projections, so that the foreign exchange budget becomes an effective
management tool. In addition, the Government recognizes the need to
strengthen substantially its external debt management. While taking steps
to improve the recording and reporting of debt with assistance from the IDA
Secondment Program, there has been little progress on a longer term
strategy for borrowing and debt management. In its absence, Zambia would
appear to be foregoing substantial savings in foreign exchange. During
negotiations for the proposed project, agreement was reached on general
terms of reference for improving external debt management with
implementation of a program of action to improve debt management to begin
not later than December 31, 1986.
41.       Monetary Reform and Decontrol of Interest Rates.  As emphasized
in the attached copy of the letter of policy intentions, the Government is
committed to use monetary policy to contain inflation and promote the
smooth fvnctioning of the foreign exchange market with due regard to the
need for improvement in the balance of payments. The introduction of a



- 17 -
Treasury Bill auction and the removal of controls over domestic interest
rates In September 1985 as part of the economic policy reform created a
framework in which the Government can act effectively and promptly to
control the growth of the money supply and thereby the level of liquidity
in the economy. In consequence of the Treasury Bill auction and the
decontrol of other interest rates, the Treasury Bill rate has increased
from the formerly controlled level of 9.5 percent to an open market rate nf
24 percent, commercial bank lending rates have risen from 17.5 percent to
30-40 percent. Deposit rates, however, remain low (having risen from 11-15
percent to 12.5-17.5 percent) and vary widely among commercial banks. The
increases in interest rates have established a more realistic cost of
credit and provide a greater incentive for savings.
42.       Parastatal Reform.  The devaluation of the kwacha has increased
the urgency for public (and private) enterprises to adapt their operations
to fit a substantially altered economic environment.  Many parastatals
entered the auction period with excessive foreign debt obligations and
depressed internal cash flows due to previous price restraint policies.
Therefore, the initial response of the parastatals in raising prices has
been quite promising. The board of the Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation, Limited, the major parastatal holding company, has indicated
that there will be no cross-subsidies between parastatals to compensate for
the devaluation, and no cash transfers will be permitted between companies
because of inadequate cash generation. These policies, if consistently
followed, will ensure that the first-round effects of devaluation result in
business decisions throughout the economy based on real costs. Beyond
this, the Government will have to address medium-term issues which will
arise as a result of the devaluation. Additional enterprises and/or
product lines whicb are unviable under the new price structure will have to
be phased out or substantially restructured. The Industrial Development
Corporation has engaged consultants under the Industrial Reorientation
Project (Cr. 1630-ZA) to help improve the efficiency of enterprises under
its control through the restructuring of phasing out of all or some of
their activities. This would include privitization where possible. A
consistent approach to debt relief and recapitalization of enterprises will
also be necessary to ensure that vital services are maintained without
imposing an unwarranted debt burden on the Government or allowing unviable
firms to remain i. business through an implicit capital subsidy. Under the
proposed credit, the Government will issue by September 30, 1986, as a
condition for the release of the second credit tranche, guidelines
specifying the circumstances and conditions under which it will absorb the
debt of parastatals.
43.       In addition to the reforms mentioned above, the Government is
proceeding to improve the operations of other parastatals on a case-by-case
basis. Agreements have been reached for the rehabilitation and financial
restructuring of Zambia Railways and Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia
(fertilizer manufacturine), and the oil pipeline operated by Tazama
pipeline company. Closures already effected include the Zambia-Tanzania
Road Service Corporation (road haulage) and Zambia Clay Industries Ltd.,
due to continuing financial losses. Proposals are being reviewed for the
restructuring of Refined Oil Products (edible oils), National Milling
Corporation, Zambia Breweries and the United Bus Service of Zambia, which
will include the possibility of foreign participation in the ownership and
management of the firms. As part of these restructuring operations, the



- 18 -
Government has sanctioned the declaring of redundancies, thus establishing
a precedent for reducing the overstaffing that affects many parastatals.
Finally, Zambia Airways, which has been severely affected by the
devaluation and is a severe drain on the country's scarce foreign exchange
resources, is being reviewed by a team of experienced consultants to
determine options for possible restructuring. On a broader scale, the
overall role of the Government in the economy, particularly as regards
public ownership, is increasingly being questioned in Zambia. Under future
structural adjustment operations, this role and the appropriate
institutional arrangements for carrying it out will be discussed and
clarified.
44.       Strengthening of Budget and Planning.  The public sector accounts
for such a high percentage of investment and output in Zambia that the
Government has come to recognize that it must also take direct
responsibility for ensuring that the economic reforms are fully
incorporated into its own actions and those of public sector agencies.
Many of the parastatals have already demonstrated their responsiveness to
the reforms by raising prices, trimming back investment programs, and
preparing financial realignment plans. These activities have been
supported under the ongoing Industrial Reorientation Project and will
continue under the proposed credit. Less progress has been made on key
government services which are funded directly through the budget (e.g.,
agricultural research and extension, road maintenance, health and
education) due in part to continuing budgetary cutbacks and lack of
adequate forward planning.  As already noted, the planning processes has
been improved with the introduction of a forward-looking Annual Plan in
connection with the 1986 government budget. Nevertheless, many of these
changes have been made in a piecemeal fashion and not in the context of an
overall plan to improve budgeting and expenditure control in line with
planned priorities.
45.       In addition to getting the planning and budgeting process
operating effectively, it is also crucial that the substance of the
expenditure program be in line with the country's development priorities.
Major distortions have accrued in this program during the past year of
severe resource constraint. Maintenance and rehabilitation were neglected
and government programs in key areas such as health, education and
agricultural research and extension have deteriorated under continual
budgetary cutbacks. On the other hand, staffing levels were not reduced,
although restraint was exercised on public sector remuneration. Capital
programs were cut back, but largely across-the-board without reference to
priorities or objective criteria. With substantial resources required by
the public sector to restore the efficiency of public assets and provide
the services required by the recovery program, it is critical that public
sector expenditures be aligned with that program. The Government, with
assistance from the Bank, is carrying out a comprehensive review of public
expenditures, including those by parastatal organizations. The results of
this review will be presented to the Consultative Group for Zambia at its
next meeting and is expected to provide the basis for assistance flows from
the donor community. It is important, therefore, that the public
expenditure programs determined by this review be adopted by the Government
as the core program and become the framework for establishing priorities
for recurrent and capital spending during the year ahead. The plan is for
these programs to become a regular feature of the planning and budgeting



- 19 -
exercice in Zambia and for economic and financial analysis to be undertaken
to support all significant capital expenditures.
46.       The longer-term success of the economic recovery program depends
criticelly on a satisfactory integration of the budgeting and planning
processes. To this effect, the proposed credit would involve the following
actions:
(a) By September 30, 1986, Central Committee and Cabinet
approval of the guidelines to be issued to ministries for
preparing the 1987 annual plan and associated budgetary
submissions, as well as the general procedures to be
followed during the 1986/87 planning and budgetary cycle.
(b) Agreement by September 30, 1986, on an action program for
restructuring the public expenditure program and specific
targets for including these recommendations in the 1987
budget. This will include a core program of high priority
expenditures, plus a supplemental program to be undertaken
should resources be available. Supplementary expenditures
approved during the course of the year would conform to
these spending priorities.
(c) Completion of a study of the tax system in Zambia in
cooperation with the Bank and IMF staff, for review by the
Government and implementation of its recommendations with
effect from the 1987 budget.
Sectoral Policies
47.       In each of the major productive sectors, the reform program aims
to maximize the short-run production response consistent with long-run
restructuring. The availability of adequate foreign exchange for the
mining sector and through the auction to other sectors is a prerequisite
for the success of this approach. The other key elements are the continued
improvement in incentives and the rationalization of public expenditures
and investments. Incentives and expenditures are critical elements in the
overall budget and will be addressed in a manner consistent with the budget
and planning framework.  Major actions in these sectors have been
undertaken in the context of the Export Diversification, Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Industrial Reorientation credits and the IMF Standby
program. The proposed credit will reinforce the efforts of the Government
to sustain these reforms by linking the availability of critical foreign
exchange to their timely implementation.
48.       In agriculture, the focus will be on ensuring that the revised
marketing systems for maize and fertilizer become fully institutionalized
and that the subsidies on these items are eliminated in the shortest
possible timeframe, with appropriate allowances for the impact of higher
maize prices on the poorest segments of Zambian society. A timetable, with
specific dates for individual actions for the elimination of maize
subsidies for all but the lowest income groups with September 30, 1987, as
the final target date, was agreed upon at negotiations (details are in
paragraph 6 of the Table on page 25). By December 31, 1986, the Government
will remove subsidies on maize used to produce livestock feed and opaque



- 20 -
beer. In addition, for 1987 total subsidies on maize will be frozen at the
1986 nominal level, minus the amount of subsidies related to livestock feed
and opaque beer. With the recent elimination of the National Agricultural
Marketing Board's (NAMBOARD's) monopoly, private entrepreneurs are now
permitted to trade in maize. They will, in practice, not be able to do so,
however, unless some mechanism is found to administer the consumer subsidy
in a manner that ensures the trader the possiblity of profit. As a
transitional measure to remain in effect until the consumer subsidy is
fully eliminated, the Government is considering administering the subsidy
through the millers rather than through NAMBOARD. The private traders,
including the larger farmers and the cooperatives, would be free to
purchase maize from the farmers at the producer price (the floor price set
by NAMBOARD or above, depending on the market) and then sell to the miller
at the price that the miller would be prepared to pay given the
(controlled) retail price and the amount of the subsidy he would expect to
receive. NAMBOARD, acting as buyer and seller of last resort, would stand
ready to purchase maize at the floor price, which would be related by
formula to the border price equivalent. NAMBOARD would also be responsible
for maintaiining a strategic grain reserve. The larger producers and the
cooperatives could be eApectd to compete with the private ertrepreneurs in
this trade.
49.       The Bank's agreement with the Government under the ongoing Agri-
cultural Rehabilitation Credit requires that maize and fertilizer subsidies
be eliminated and maize marketing be opened to private traders by
May 1987. The authorities had kept to this agreement, in fact had adjusted
the retail price of maize ahead of schedule, up until the time the foreign
exchange auction was introduced and the value of the kwacha fell
precipitously. This radically altered the cost/price relationship in maize
production and distribution. In addition, the large increase in the retail
maize price introduced concurrently with the auction and the sharp
increases in other prices placed a heavy burden on the poorer segments of
the Zambian society. Given these circumstances, the objective now is to
eliminate the maize subsidy for all but the poorest segments of society by
no later than September 30, 1987.  For this latter group, a mechanism is
being sought to target the subsidy to the most needy. The subsidy on
fertilizer will be eliminated in accordance with the original schedule,
i.e., May 1987.
50.       The terms of reference for the third phase of the Maize Marketing
and Fertilizer Distribution study (the design of workable procedures for
administering the subsidy to the 176 millers scattered around Zambia, most
of whom are small and keep scarcely any business records) has been agreed
and this last phase of the study has begun. The preliminary results of
this phase have been received and are being reviewed by the Government and
the Bank. The plan is for the new procedures to be introduced immediately,
facilitating the entrance of private trading in maize this year. If this
does not prove feasible, the subsidy would continue to be channeled through
NAMBOARD, with private traders acting as collection agents for NAMBOARD
where they are more efficient than individual producers, contractors or
cooperatives in moving grain to NAMBOARD. Private traders would also
collect maize in remote areas, where other entities fail to do so because
of transport, packing and payment problems, since they could do so at a
discount on the producer price, but save the producer from a greater loss
which he would otherwise incur.



- 21 -
51.       Under the proposed credit, agreement will be reached with the
Government by September 30, 1986 on an action plan for implementing the
recommendations of the Maize Marketing and Fertilizer Distribution study.
This would include agreement on the mechanisms, procedures and timing for
full participation of private traders in the marketing of maize and for
NAMBOARD to assume the role of buyer and seller of laat resort. Also by
that date, agreement would be reached with the Government on the specific
methodology for determining floor prices for agricultural crops. The
general principle, i.e., relating these to border price equivalents, to be
used in guiding this methodology has been discussed and agreed with the
authorities.
52.       Another area of concern in agriculture that would be addressed in
the proposed project is that of agricultural credit, particularly credit to
smallholders. The present system, under which most credit to smallholders
is provided through the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) has been
highly inefficient. AFC's procedures are time-consuming and cumbersome,
and the institution has suffered from poor management, heavy arrears, and
poor financial performance, and its operations are quite inefficient.
Therefore, the Government established the Zambia Agricultural Development
Bank (ZADB) in 1982, which was to become the principal agricultural credit
institution in Zambia and eventually to replace AFC. However, ZADB has so
far not proven efficient and has been operating only on a very small
scale. The Government has now decided to merge AFC and ZADB into a new
Lima Bank, with extended powers, greater automony, and joint
private/Government ownership. The next critical steps are the passage by
Parliament of the new Lima Bank Bill, and decisions by Government about the
i&ma Bank's share ownership (including the selection of non-Government
shareholders), capital structure and corporate organization. The
Agricultural Credit Project will establish target dates for the completion
of these critical steps. The proposed project would support organizational
changes in the Ministry of Agriculture through an action plan to implement,
by December 31, 1986, the recommendations of the recently completed
evaluation study. The credit would also support a review of the export
licensing system as applied to agricultural products to ensure that it
functions as a registration system only.
53.       Mining   As already noted, based on recently completed consultant
studies, ZCCM has prepared a comprehensive five-year Production and
Investment Plan for rationalization of its mining activities.
Implementation started in January 1986. Specific proposals of the Plan
include the closure of some facilities, reduction of the labor force,
revamping of the compensation system, and internal management changes to
improve productivity and cost-efficiency. During negotiations for the
proposed project, the timetable for implementation of the five-year
production and investment plan for ZCCM was confirmed, and provision was
made for semi-annual independent audits by international mining
consultants. Concerning ZCCM's requirements for foreign exchange and
kwacha resources, the Government has agreed to allocate $320 million to
ZCCM from its export earnings during 1986 (as compared to $168 million
during the first 10 months of 1985), which is expected to help stabilize
and eventually increase copper production. While this increase in ZCCM's
foreign exchange allocation is essential in the light of recent experience
with declining copper exports, it will nevertheless put severe pressure on
the Government's limited foreign exchange budget. The present
unsatisfactory taxation structure for ZCCM, which comprises the Company



- 22 -
Income Tax, the Mineral Tax and the Mineral Export Tax, will be reviewed by
a joint Bank-Fund study and it is anticipated that an agreed tax regime
will be incorporated in the 1987 Budget.
54.       Manufacturing.  The basic framework of industrial sector reform
is now in place in Zambia, and with the support of increased foreign
exchange allocations to the sector resulting from the auctioning is
beginning to have a positive effect on the sector's efficiency and output.
Much of this effort has been accomplished with support from the
IDA-assisted Industrial Reorientation Credit. An important component of
this work involves increasing the efficiency and profitability of the
public enterprises under INDECO's control and to increase the latter's
capacity to evaluate investment opportunities. An in-depth study of
questionably viable INDECO enterprises is presently underway and an action
program for phasing out or otherwise disposing of economically unsound
enterprises and for restrucuturing enterprises considered to be potentially
viable is to be agreed by July 31, 1986. Implementation of the actions
under this program is to begin by September 30, 1986. Under the proposed
credit, the Government and the Association would review progress on
implementation of this action program and agree on further actions that
might be required, if any. Satisfactory progress on implementation of this
program would be a condition of release of the second tranche of the
proposed credit. Another important component of this work is the
encouragement given to private investment through the new Investment Code
recently adopted by Parliament. This Code accords foreign investors the
same incentives and other benefits that are available to domestic investors
and ensures them of the right to repatriate profits, dividends, etc. It
also provides a positive endorsement of private investment and entails a
minimum of regulation.
55.       First round adjustments to the tariff structure in Zambia were
implemented under the Industrial Reorientation Credit: a uniform minimum
tariff was applied to all imports (with certain minimal exceptions) and the
maximum tariff level was dropped to 100 percent from 150 percent. This
reduced the dispersion of existing tariff protection and extended coverage
to essentially all imports. In addition, a Tariff Commission has been
established in Zambia and technical assistance is being provided under the
Iadustrial Reorientation project to assist the Commission during the early
period of its operation. One of the first tasks of the Commission will be
to undertake a comprehensive review of the tariff and indirect tax
structures to ensure that those taxes contribute fully to the country's
development objectives. Under the proposed credit, the Borrower has agreed
to submit the results of the study to the Association for review and
comment by December 31, 1986, and to implement the agreed recommendations
in the 1987 budget.
PART III - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Introduction
56.       The proposed Project was identified in December 1985 and
appraised in March 1986. Negotiations were held in London on
May 19-21, 1986 with a Zambian delegation led by Mr. E.S.S. Nebwe,
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance.  This is a combined President's



- 23 -
Report and Staff Appraisal Report. A credit and project summary is
presented at the beginning of this Report and a supplementary project data
sheet is in Annex III.
Project ObJectives and Description
57.       The proposed project's objective is to support and carry further
Zambia's policy and institutional reform program during a critical period
in its evolution by helping to facilitate a level of imports critical to
the success of the country's recovery and diversification effort. It would
achieve this by contributing to the availability of foreign exchange needed
to bring forth a supply response. Without sufficient foreign exchange to
raise capacity utilization in the economy and to sustain this at high
levels, the reform program would not be fully effective and may be
jeopardized. Moreover, credibility of the reforms would be lessened and
the hard-built consensus within Zambia on the reform effort woule be
undermined.
58.       Over the past year, the pace of macroeconomic and sector policy
reforms accelerated markedly in Zambia. The policies now in place as
described earlier in this Report provide the basic framework required to
stabilize the economy in the short-run and bring about its restructuring
over the longer term. Reforms are underway in each major productive
sector - mining, industry, and agriculture - and all major macroeconomic
parameters have been adjusted to provide the proper backdrop for the
recovery and diversification effort. In addition, the Government has
embarked on a far-reaching program of institutional reforms to improve
management of the economy. Success of the reform effort now requires,
primarily, sustaining and implementing the policy initiatives already
undertaken. The proposed credit would facilitate that, plus it would
support additional policy and institutional actions designed to extend or
complete the reform programs in several areas.
59.       Zambia's recovery and adjustment efforts under the proposed
credit would be concentrated in four areas: i) planning and budgeting, to
bring about sound fiscal adjustment; ii) public expenditure
rationalization, to provide maximum support to the reform effort through
effective targetting of expenditures; iii) foreign exchange and debt
management, to make more effective use of limited foreign exchange
resources; and iv) the productive sectors, to extend the reform programs in
critical aspects. In each of these areas, the proposed credit would
broaden the area of policy agreement with the Government and ensure the
effective implementation of reforms already underway. Inevitably, the
impact of the reforms will be uneven, varying with the pace of implementa-
tion and changing circumstances. Therefore, variations in the reforms may
be required over time. It is important, however, that their balanced and
comprehensive character be maintained as they constitute Zambia's only hope
of regaining economic viability. Bank support for the reform program
during the next several months will be based on a schedule of actions to be
taken prior to and during the disbursement of the credit as set out below
aad as reflected in the Government's statement of policy presented in
Annex IV of this Report. The precise timing and scope of these actions
were agreed with the Government at negotiations. The proposed actions to
be taken are summarized in matrix form on pages 24 - 27 of this Report.



- 24 -
ZAMBIA RECOVERY CREDIT
SUM4MARY OF MEASURES TO BE
TAKEN
MEASURES TO BE TAKEN UNDER
OBJECTIVE                 MEASURES ALREADY TAKEN         PROPOSED CREDIT AND TIMING
1) To restructure public          1) Public expenditure review    1) Agreement with the
sector spending to support        underway with assistance         Association by Sept. 30,1986
more effectively the               from the Bank.                   on an action program for
country's goals within                                              restructuring public
overall resource                                                    expenditures, including
availabilittes.               ii) Government agreement to           specific timetable for
increase In real terms           timetable for implementing
allocations for recurrent        restructuring.  Agreement
expenditures in                  also on the changes to be
agriculture.                     incorporated in the 1987
budget.  This vw'l include a
core program of high priori-
ty expenditures, plus a
supplementary program should
additional resources become
available. Any supplemen-
tary expenditures would also
conform to the spending
priorities.
II) completion of study of
tax structure fwith
assistance frin the Bank
and Fund and agreement on
action plan with
timetable for
implementation, by
December 31, 1986.
2) To improve planning and        i) New procedures introduced    i) Agreement on guidelines
hudgeting to define more          to unify and improve              to be issued to
clearly objectives,               recurrent and ^apital            mlnistries for preparing
strategies, and resource          budgeting.                        1987 annual plan and on
availabilities, and to                                              associated budgetary
focus expenditure on                                               submissions by
development goals.                                                  June 30, 1986.
ii) Annual Planning              ii) Approval by Central
introduced with first            Committee and Cabinet of
plan produced in 1986            planning and budgeting
guidelines and of general
procedures to be followed
in 1986/87 planning and
budgeting cycle by
September 30, 1986.



- 25 -
iii) Linkages fnrged between       iti) Issue guldelines
olanning and budgetine.           specifying the
circumstances and
condtttons under which
Government will absorb
debt of parastatals by
September 30, 1986.
3) To broaden the scope of         1) About 50 percent of total    i) Furnish to the
the foreign exchange               foreign exchange receipts         Association by December
auction so as to improve           are auctioned, with major          31, 1986, an action plan
rate determination.                exceptions being ZCCM and          to include government
government requirements.          goods and services in the
auction and begin
implementing the plan by
March 31, 1987.
4) To improve overall              i) Monthly budgets with            i) Review operations of BOZ
managment of the country's         three months forward               to assess foreign
foreign exchange                   look, being prepared by            exchange management by
resources, including               the BOZ.  Also, quarterly         December 31, 1986.
mechanisms for channelling         budgets are prepared for
receipts and payments              remainder of year.
through international
banks.
ii) Agree with the
Association on an action
program for improving
foreign exchange
management by BOZ,
including timetable for
implementation, by
September 30, 1986.
5) To improve management of        i) Assistance obtained from        i) Implement technical
external indebtedness,             a consulting firm proved          assistance
including contracting of           to be inadequate.                 recommendations on
debts by parastatals.                                                 assistance in debt
management by
December 31, 1986.
6) To eliminate subsidy in         i) Maize price has been            i) Complete a study on
maize and improve                  Increased to cover nearly          impact of subsidies on
marketing by allowing              one-half of the maize              the poor and on mechanism
trading by private sector          subsidy, pre-auction.             for targetting subsidy to
to establish proper                                                   lowest income level by
producer pricing                                                     December 31, 1986, and
methodology.                                                          remove subsidy to higher
ii) Producer prices have been         income groups by
increased to approximate          September 30, 1987.
border price equivalents.
ii) Remove subsidies on maize
used to produce livestock
feed and opaque beer by
December 31, 1986.



- 26 -
III) Private traders have been  iti) Take measures to
allowed to trade tn              implement reco_mendationa
naize.                           of ongoing agricultural
marketing study, by
September 30, 1986.
iv) Agree on floor pricing
methodology for maize, by
September 30, 1986 and
implement for 1987 crop
season.
7) To improve the functioning    t) Revtew of planning              I) Agree on and prepare
of the Ministry of                division has been                 action plan, plus
Agrtculture and Water             completed and some                identify TA needs, for
Development                       improvements have been            Improving operations of
made.                            HAND by June 30, 1986.
ii) Begin implementing action
plan by
December 30, 1986.
8) To improve delivery of         I) Government has agreed to       I) Prepare action plan to
credit to farmers,                merge AFC into ZADB.              effect merger; prepare
particularly smallholders.                                          and issue lending
policies and procedures;
and adequately capitalize
ZADB by
September 30, 1986.
9) To encourage exports of        i) Incentives have been           I) Review implementation of
agricultural goods.               provided for agricultural         export licensing system
exports, Including for-          as applied to agri-
eien exchange retention,         cultural goods to ensure
tax incentives and               Its proper functioning
simplified licensing             and confirm chaneeover to
procedures.                      registration system.
10) To improve operating of        i) Indeco's investment            i) Review wtth the
Publlc enterprises in             programs for 1985/86 and          Association action
order to avoid drain on           1986/87 have been agreed          programs for phasing out
public resources.                 with the Association.             or restructuring indi-
vidual public enterprises
under control of Indeco
and agree on schedules
for implementing
recommendations, by
September 30, 1986.
11) To improve custom tariff       i) A minimum tariff of            I) Complete review of tariff
structure to achieve              15 percent has been               structure by
greater uniformity In             levied on all goods.              December 31, 1986 and
effective protection.                                               Incorporate recommen-
dations in 1987 budget.



- 27 -
iI) maximum tariffs have been
reduced from 150 percent
to 100 percent.
itt) Tariff commission has
been established.
iv) Agreement that Tariff
cowmission (wtth externaL
assistance) will carry
out comprehensive review
of tariff structure.
12) To improve operations of       i) A comprehensive reviev of   i)  Sign contract with mining
the mining industry.              ZCCM's operations by             consultants of
external consultants has         international repute to
been completed.                  carry out audits of ZCCN
5-year plan by
September 30, 1986.
ii) ZCCM has prepared a
5-year production and
investment plan based on
the review which has been
agreed with the
Association.
ilt) Terms of reference for
independent audits of
implementation of ZCCMI's
5-year plan agreed at
negotiations.
iv) Timetable for
implementing ZCCM's
5-year plan during 1986
and 1987 confirmed during
negotiations.
13) To improve financial           1) Impact of kwacha              i) Carry out review of tax
viability of ZCCM while at        devaluation on ZCCK's            regime applicable to ZCCM
the same time maximizing          finances has been                by July 31, 1986.
contribution of minine            reviewed.
industry to public
resources.                    i) Minerals export receipt       II) Incorporate recommend-
tax was increased from           ations of review in 1987
10 percent to 13 percent.        budget or sooner if
possible.
iSi) Axreement reached to
study tax regime
applicable to ZtCC and
implement results in time
for 1987 budget.



- 28 -
Project Components
60.       The proposed credit will total US$50 million equivalent to
finance the following:
IDA
(US$MILLION)
(i) Imported goods, including spare parts,
raw materials, intermediate and final
goods and other goods not included
in the negative list;                      48.8
(ii) Technical Assistance for mining audits
foreign exchange management, external
debt management and targetting of
subsidies;                                  1.0
(iii) Training.                                   0.2
Total                                      50.0
The Borrower of the proposed credit would be the Republic of Zambia. The
funds made available for the import component would be sold by BOZ through
the foreign exchange auction. Part of the funds allocated for technical
assistance (US$1.0 million) and training (US$0.2 million) would be made
available by the borrower to BOZ and MAWD on a grant basis, and the
remainder would be utilized by the Ministry of Finance as implementor of
part of the technical assistance. Kwacha received from the sale of the
credit proceeds would be remitted to the Zambian Treasury for general
usage.
Imports Component
61.       The purpose of this component is to increase the supply of
imported goods generally, but in particular of imports for the productive
sectors. As noted above, this would facilitate the supply response
critical to the recovery and diversification effort. With the interest and
exchange rates now near their equilibrium level, only efficient users will
be able to bid successfully for foreign exchange through the auction
mechanism. Based on experience thus far, it is estimated that consumer
goods will comprise no more than about 20 percent of the items imported
during the period of disbursement, of which less than 5 percent will be
luxury goods. Luxury goods would not be eligible for financing under the
proposed credit.
62.       At the last Consultative Group meeting in December 1985, it was
estimated that Zambia would need annual imports of about US$750-800 million
to support GDP growth of 2-2.5 percent over the medium term. Estimates
presented at that same meeting showed that after taking into account the
increased aid flows expected in 1986 as a result of the indications pre-
sented by donors at the previous (June 1985) meeting of the Group, Zambia
would still need about US$120 million if the required level of imports were
to be reached. Unexpected production difficulties in the mines had reduced
exports and copper prices had fallen even lower than anticipated. The



- 29 -
donor community, including the Bank with the proposed credit, indicated
sufficient further increases in aid commitments to close this gap.
Technical Assistance Component
63.       This component of US$1.0 million includes technical assistance to
BOZ, MAWD and to the Ministry of Finance. Terms of reference for all tasks
under this component were agreed at negotiations. Specifically, the main
elements of the component are the following:
ti) 20 staff-months of consultant services to help improve the
Bank of Zambia's foreign exchange management. This would
include a full assessment of existing systems, procedures,
etc., for managing foreign exchange, preparation of an
action plan for improvement and assistance in implementing
part of the action plan.
(ii) 36 staff-months of consultaat services to undertake
technical/managerial/economic audits of implementation of
ZCCM's 5-year Production and Investment Plan.
(iii) 10 staff-months of consultant services to improve debt
management in the Ministry of Finance. The consultant would
set up systems in the Ministry for debt forecasting and
analysis and provide training to Ministry staff.
(iv) 10 staff-months of consultant services to the MAWD to devise
a method of targetting maize subsidies to the lowest income
segment of Zambian society.
Training
64.       This component includes the provision of training to BOZ staff in
support of the actions needed under the foreign exchange management study
and additional related training that may be required. The total estimated
cost of this component is US$200,000.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       The proceeds of the US$48.8 million component for imports would
be disbursed in two tranches of US$24.4 million each. Each of these
tranches is expected to be disbursed over about a three-month period at an
average rate of about US$8 million per month. The first tranche would be
available upon effectiveness. The second tranche would be available about
three months thereafter, or about September 30, 1986. Disbursement of the
second tranche would be conditioned on a satisfactory review of progress on
the policy reform program as described in the Government's statement of
policy (Annex IV); a detailed list of the conditions for the release of the
second tranche is given in Annex V.



- 30 -
Imports Component
66.       To facilitate disbursement and procurement under the imports
component, a Special Account would be established in BOZ. After credit
effectiveness, an initial deposit of US$25.0 million would be made by IDA
to the Special Account. This Account would be replenished on a regular
basis on submission of appropriate evidence of expenditures.
Replenishments would be made against full documentation except for
contracts of less than $100,000 equivalent; for these Items replenishoents
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, certified by BOZ
that the credit proceeds were used for eligible expenditures. The
statement of expenditure accounts and supporting documents would be
reviewed by IDA supervision missions and subject to audit.
67.       The proceeds of the credit for this component would be sold to
successful bidders at the auction-determined exchange rate. Importers can
be expected to procure their materials and spare parts, and other goods
from the most efficient source and to minimize costs; consequently, only
items costing in excess of US$2 million would be procured by procedures
that include broad international tendering among suppliers. Disbursements
would cover 100 percent of the foreign cost of the imported goods.
Technical Assistance and Training Components
68.       To facilitate disbursements under these components, a special
account would be established in BOZ in the name of the Ministry of
Finance. After effectiveness, an initial deposit of US$300,000.00 would be
made by IDA to this special account. This account would be operated in a
manner similar to that of the special account set up under the imports
component. The selection of consultants under the technical assistance
component and the terms and conditions of the consultants' employment, as
well as their qualifications, would be in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Disbursement from the funds earmarked under the credit for these components
would cover 100 percent of expenditures for consultant services and
training. Disbursements would be fully documented, except for
reimbursements against contracts of less than US$10,000 equivalent, which
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Accounts and Audit
69.       The accounts to be maintained by BOZ under the proposed credit
including separate accounts for amounts disbursed on the basis of
statements of expenditure, and the Special Account, would be audited by
auditors acceptable to IDA and certified copies of the relevant audited
accounts would be submitted to IDA.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
70.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 28 loans and 20 credits to
Zambia, totalling about US$873 million (net of cancellations). Two
additional Bank loans were made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly to finance



- 31 -
shared power facilities on the Zambezi River. Fourteen loans and seven
credits have financed energy, transportation, communications and rural
water supply projects. Four loans and one credit for educatton have helped
expand Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training,
and commercial, agricultural and technical education systems. Two program
loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of
severe economic dislocatton. In agriculture, forestry and fisheries, six
loans and six credits have been for industrtal forest plantations and wood
processing, livestock, commercial crops, integrated family farming, coffee
production and smallholder dairy and fisheries development. Agricultural
projects in the Eastern and Southern Provinces are assisting smallholder
farmers and an Agricultural Rehabtlttation Project is providtng inputs to
the sector in support of policy reforms. The Industrial Reorientation
project is supporting policy and instttutional reforms designed to increase
the efficiency and productivity of industrial firms and to reorient the
industrial sector towards greater use of domestic inputs and export
markets. Other loans have assisted Zambia's urban development program,
copper mining and, through the Development Bank of Zambia, its
manufacturing, agricultural and industrial sectors. The first technical
assistance credit tb helping the Government improve tts planning and
project preparatton.
71.       The Internattonal Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$88 million in eleven projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments
were in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, two in
textiles and one each in the Development Bank of Zambta, cobalt production,
copper production, tourism and in food and food processing.
72.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has
deteriorated significantly in recent years, and serious delays have been
experienced in the execution of a number of these projects. There are
several reasons for this, the main one being the lack of budgetary
resources with which to finance local counterpart expendttures and to
prefinance local expenditures which are subsequently to be reimbursed by
Bank loans. Most seriously affected have been the Bank's agricultural
projects for which funds, although budgeted, have not been released to the
executing agencies for several months. Other reasons for the laggtng
implementation of projects are ineffective project management and
tnadequate inter-agency coordination. The Bank-assisted agricultural
projects, which require careful management and effective coordination due
to their complex design, have suffered from these problems, as has the
Third Highway Project.
73.       The deterioration of project implementation has, as expected,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. During the first four years of the period FY77-81, the
disbursement rate on loans and credits to Zambia averaged slightly over 25
percent per annum, higher than the Bankwtde average of 21.2 percent, or the
21.5 percent average for the Eastern Africa Region, and well above the 22.2
percent for Tanzania, 23.4 percent for Senegal and 20.2 percent for
Bolivia. In FY81, however, the rate dropped to just over 16 percent,
compared with 20.7 percent Bankwtde, 16.5 percent for Eastern Africa, 23.6
percent for Tanzania, 20.8 percent for Senegal and 21.2 percent for
Bolivia. The rate has risen since FY81, reaching 20.1 percent in FY83,
which was slightly below the average for the Eastern Africa Region (20.7
percent) and for the Bank overall (20.8 percent). To alleviate the



- 32 -
problem, provision is being made for technical assistance in projects to
strengthen implementing agencies and Increased use of the Resident Mission
in monitoring project execution. Revolving funds are being established
under new and ongoing projects which should ease the Government's financial
hurden and accelerate disbursements. The Bank or IDA makes advance
deposits into these funds to eliminate the need for prefinancing by the
Government of local expenditures financed by the Bank/IDA. In addition,
estimates of counterpart funds required and thetr timing are being prepared
by Bank/IDA staff well in advance to allow implementing agencies as much
lead time as possible to plan for these expenditures. As of December 1983,
IBRD loans disbursed and outstanding were about 12 percent of Zambia's
total medium and long-term debt disbursed and outstanding.
74.       The Bank Group's strategy in Zambia is to support the country's
efforts to diversify and increase economic efficiency. Raising the
efficiency of the mining industry through the Export Rehabilitation and
Diversification loan so that the industry may contribute resources to
diversification programs was the first step in carrying out this strategy.
Subsequent operations, such as the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project and
the Industrial Reorientation Project, focus on improving sector policies in
agriculture and industry, which are, respectively, the sectors with the
best potential for production and export growth and for employment
creation. The Group's strategy also gives priority to reducing consumption
of imported petroleum, substituting indigenous energy resources and raising
the efficiency of energy and transportation services. Emphasis will be
given to rehabilitation and maintenance, rather than expansion, of
infrastructure and Bank Group assistance is expected to include a
significant proportion of quick-disbursing resources. Support in
addressing the longer-term development constraints, e.g., improving
economic management, education, population, health, etc., is also part of
the strategy. Policy and institutional reform programs in each of the
sectors, as well as on the macroeconomic level, are being agreed with the
Government.
Bank-Fund Collaboration
75.       The Bank had good working relations with the IMF in the past few
years, particularly during the period in which Zambia has been formulating
the economic reform program. Such collaboration has taken the form of
close consultation and discussion of views, participation in each others'
missions and a thorough review of issues prior to mission departures. Each
institution has reviewed and commented on the other's major documents to
ensure that policy positions are mutually consistent and supportive, and
staff of each participated in the other,s internal meetings as observers,
and on occasion, to clarify points related to the Bank's programs. A
consistent picture of how the economy has been functioning has been reached
as has agreement on a prospective medium-term scenario. Zambia has been
selected as a country for increased Bank/Fund collaboration, including the



- 33 -
preparation of a joint medium-term scenario and policy framework paper.
The Bank proposes to intensify its cooperation with the Fund in coming
months to bring about even greater complementarity between the two programs
and to strengthen the joint work on a medium-term scenario for Zambia.
Part V - BENEFITS, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION
76.       The proposed credit would support Zambia's recovery and
diversification effort by helping to raise capacity utilization in the
productive sectors and by providing essential consumer goods. Through its
support of ongoing and additional policy and institutional reforms in
Zambia, particularly the foreign exchange auction, it would help ensure
greater efficiency of the economy, including improved resource allocation,
and contribute significantly to goals of increased output, employment and
incomes. It would reinforce the reform effort at a critical time when the
effects of the reform measures are most intense and the benefits beginning
to emerge. Without the proposed credit, the level of imports would fall
below the critical minimum needed to support the medium term scenario
presented earlier in this report. GDP would most likely decline resulting
in further hardship for the Zambian people, and confidence in the reform
effort would dissipate.
77.       The net effect of the project on income and welfare levels is
expected to be positive in the long run. Aggregate employment levels, and
thus income levels, will be higher than otherwise because of the growth of
GDP, and the lowest income groups in particular are expected to benefit
because of the structural adjustment brought about by the reform effort,
i.e., more incentives to agriculture, shifts in the internal terms of
trade. The increase in goods available for consumption and the competition
provided by importers should help lower inflation which will help all
Zambians. The most dramatic inflationary effects of the reforms have
already occured and inflation is expected to moderate in the coming months
if adequate foreign exchange resources are made available to the economy.
78.       The main risk associated with the proposed project is that the
reform effort will be abandoned. This risk is especially high at this time
because the reforms are causing great suffering among the average citizens,
while the expected benefits of the reforms are not yet visible (although
favorable signs are emerging). The Government's ability to withstand the
pressure caused by these developments will be sorely tested in the next
several months. These risks are acceptable, however, for several reasons.
The Zambia Government has shown its willingness and politica]. ability to
stick by the reforms under substantial pressure from the population and the
politicians. Moreover, there is a growing awareness and acceptance by all
in Zambia of the necessity of the reforms and of the dire consequences for
the economy and social fabric should they not be continued. Finally, the
risk of abandonment of the reform effort is lessened by the relaxation of



- 34 -
the foreign exchange constraint provided by the proposed credit and by the
other donor support to Zambia accompanying it. Bank Group staff will
closely monitor the progress In Implementing the actions and measures
associated with the credit and wtll use the tranching mechanism to ensure
their fulfillment.
Part VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Arttcles of Agreement of the Associatton and recommend that it be approved
by the Executive Directors.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
May 27, 1986



- 35 -
LLLLL-JL                      ~~~ANNEX IIo 
LAJ.LI=&                                    Page1of6
4ii|z~~~ morn 1UI5                    __ Z"        im  
iwo.LL  u,=b morn 136i    o             61065 £0
.yuaidI.       aiglM  o. e MAU        0. AI o Gi PILO AST
amRA E         .                    752.0       753.0       732.0
MMIIULU*I                         397.4       399.5       .01.A                 .
w3 cwm   CM)                           ..         ..        510.0                 .                     114.9
w uninu osI oinu.                             oe           a                 u. 
Cull.OmU 0 OIL NUiaLIlT              .         01.0       "LO.               501.5                    022.9
wmULoeIuO16MBAR (700alUS)   2141.0            0159.0     03.0.
33341 90 *s2 CS I TTAL)             17.2       50.0        40.0              32.0                      0.0
paunx nosas
11Uau 3e o 130fUlz.
,ouar Tii iu  mas 2U0 (IEU.                              11.0
SiAIIOU   uouvI1Im  (1)                                  322.0
90U.UO  USoUI                                             2.0
vauwum mm
In *. a.                           4.2         5.5        6.2               05.1                     31.0
M  M  a. MU. UIS                   7.9       10.4        13.L              124.4                    470.1
'omaul  M  nucT       S (3)
0-14 Us                          45.0                                                              46.1  0.2  45.0  23.5
1544 'EU                         32.5        51.3        49.2              21.5                      52.0
*5 DM AI                           2.4        2 2.5       23                 2.7                      3.3
TOTAL                              2.5         2.U        Ll                 2.9                      2.1
*uJin                             9.1         0.0         *.2               5.1                       4.4
KIM 151 (MR 1000S)                  49.0       49.0        50.O              u7.0                      40.0
Po    mm  mAw cm  1t10)             223.       18.7        10.0               15.0                     11.5
1u11 uwm        uos  *Aw             3.2        3.3         3.3               3.2                       2.6
ACCWOU. *30L (C10O3)
CS a( r        3   MEN)            ..         ..          1.0 e.4                                    21.4
(1909-71100)                       99.0       900         92.0               a2.9                     9L.
M3  cAPT  lIEU 1R
CALUU  (2 orUSP)                 100.0        M0        91.0              -.94                     116.2
Plan=  cuAN   M  on)              0.0        04.0        50.0                5.4                     77.6
13 UXm *mm   AND m0ug            14.0        10.0       14.0       I       10.5                     17.0
cmu. (ACM  1-4) MMMU S              3.S         2.2        19.0               10.4                     12.A
LUZ 3K3BCT. aT KM  C1UU)            41.7        40.2       M0.5               52.0                     57.8
2waUSUT. WI  CPU T105)             151.5      125.0       100.0              306.8                     90.3
ACC3S TO 9A93 WATER (2109)
TOTAL                              ..         37.0       00.0 jj            42.4                     07.2
au                                 ..        70.0        U7                 07.5                     93.6
ORAL                               ..         22.0       00.4               35.8                     43.0
40Cs To aIcZT DISPOSAL
(C Or OPU 7ATI)
TO.                                           1.0        40.0              U2.9                      43.9
VISA1                                         12.0       40.0               57.7 J2:.0
16.0      40.0              20.7                      20.0
soPATM  mn 9TC                   9250.0   O 140.0        7070.0A           11791.7                   4331.0
Po. ESO31113 fIuSw               9920.0 /1  2420.0       1720.0.L           265f.6                   1843.0
POP.`5 SUDITAL BS
TOaL                             300.0       300.0      210.0 3h 1.1                                021.
eRAS                             130.0. LL    ..        260.0              G6.$                     54.0
BLEAk                            470.0        ..        240.0A           4371.9                    2311.3
£a38i   M   0n3                      ..         ..         21.0 L            27.2                      23.7
AWYRS SIZZ OF 1OISS101a
TOtAL                              ..          4.4
UUU                                ..         ..          .                  ..
UIUL                               ..         ..          .                   ..
LYRISt N0. W PUOUUiUoI
TOTAL                              ..         2..
01.1                              ..          .....
LOIS                               ..         ..          ..                 ..
KOAL                               ..         ..
auRal27.5                             ..          .                  ..
3111                               ..         ..          .                   ..



-36-                                             ANNEX I
T A  L t                                 Page  2  of 6
ZAM                      SOCIAL INDWAICES DATA SHu T
ZAMBIA                               BEFEUEr GROUPS (W.LGOWT.D  VM4) 
lOST                     (MOST But=  ISTrATU) lb
Rb RCCOT            I1O0LE liCOnI          MIDDLt IUICOM
th0aLb     lp 70 a   tb-CSTMD4T   AFlUCA S. OF SAIIARA    M. AFMLCA A Pau UAST
AIJUST D EIIUOUINT tATIOS
FIAR12  TOfM.                     62.0       89.0        96.0 Id           95.7                      69.8
MULE                   51.0        "        i iom  O1.0  9O.0  102.0 7  OU103.7
FOELZ                  34.0        79.0       90.o 73-           83.2                     75.2
SECOIIUDAt TOTAL                   2.0       13.0        17.0 /d            17.3                     42.9
HALZ                    3.0        17.0       22.U 7r            25.0                     bu.9
FINA1.                  1.0        1.0        12.0 _d            14.8                     34.6
vOCrATIoNL CZ or SECOHES)           27.8        3.2         2.3 /d            5.9                      10.0
PUTILTAcI RATIO
110IW                             50.0       47.0        48.0 Id           41.2 ,.7
SECO1A0T                          14.0       22.0        22.0 7            25.5                      eiS
PASSUNGII CARS/T,HOUUIAD POP        10.4       14.5        18.7  .           20.U                      17.8
AD10 RMIWMSITUUSAIID POP            4.8 /1    18.0         26.S             107.0                    175.9
TV UCASIS/TOUSAIID POP               ..         4.1        12.4              20.8                      51.2
NMPM  Ct"DAILT GCEAL
iUThIESTI) CIUWTATION
PEs TIlOD PO1PULATICU               3.1       13.7        18.7               18.4                     37.2
CUl  A L ATTEZ          CAPTA       ..          ..          0.3 /l            OA.                      2.4
TOTAL tAE FORCE (TCEMS)           1295.0     1621.0      2168.0
Pff   (PAULCET)                  33.3        32.6        33.0              36.2                      11.0
AGIWLTUEU (PhEl,)                 79.0       73.0        67.0 Id           54.5                      42.4
ZDSTE (=cP      )                 7.0         9.0        11.0 r            18.3                     27.9
PARTICIPATION KATZ (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             41.2       39.0        34.6              36.8                      26.2
rALz                              55.3       52.9        47.5              47.1                     46.2
PrULE                             27.3       25.2        22.6              27.2                       5.8
eOHc OmcUmW   RATIO-                1.2         1,2         1.5               1.3                       1J
mcur   or rnvm  IC.
inCEIIM B!
31025 5S Of Uam11DS               33.7       23.011       ..                 ..
NICHES! 20201   WUSOLDS          58.2        63.0 f      56.7 lb
LAMST 202 Or aoWuuimtS            5.4         3.11t       3.0 A.
LAWEST 402 oWusUOU                13.0       10.1    7  11.1 i     .        ..
ESTW ABOUTE POVRT! INCOU
LEVEL (M1 PgE CrT
u                                  ..         ..        247.0 I           590.;                     226.3
RIDAL                             ..          ..        168.0             275.3                     134.0
ESTDIATED EIIATI PovUit INCOl
LEVEL CUSS PEt CAPITA)
uBA                               ..          ..        125.0 5g 345.6                              431.3
NAL                              ..          ..         65.0             201.1                     3Z6.0
ZST0MATED POP. uu3   A58L21
POVERT IlcRIU LEL (I)
RAN                                ..         ..         23.0 i.
vim L                             ..          ..          ..                ..                      2v.O
MrT AVAILABEZ
.1? AP?LICALI
NOT2 S
.a  Tbe graLp mrqep  for each * edicotar are pePulatloswe-&ted arttnlstlc mass. (bverag  of camatTlee
mac   b ttndicatora depends an avallabilUty of data .8 La not a_ina.
/b  laX. otbenlee noted. 'Data for 1961? refer to any year betwN 1959 and 1961; lost& for 1971? be  en
1969 an  1971; ed data for "Met PAcent Setl;mtt" between 1911 ad 1933.
Ie  1977; /d 1980; /e 1979; If 1963; .&, 1973; lb 1976;  I 1982; J. 1973.
JIU14 1965



37                                         ANNEX  I
Page 3 of 6
DEFW4YlOF4 OF SOCIAL l4Id CATOR
Noe Akthou  te da a diwn tram sun leemuallyjmidd th - amitontauve an tillable. it should ambemoodstbenet thty may not be sntmnuonlly
compeable becm  of the lack o et  dls dmuand caeps usd by dilleun counum in collctng th data. The dauam . nonel   etal to
dumb. orders ofnsawuda. sinda te a and chuace certi uor difc bernsee cou  s
Te mOunt Ipie m ll) t mt country pdop of the em uy and 12)1 a US17r ompCwtth sowmbat higher anp omae  iba the ountry
I m  aol pthe wbjen comMeamp for'Hi  0Inoe   ExPoe  roupwhet -Middle Income Nont Africaatd Middle Eu" imac    becaue otrnpr
ocokund "ur to dth mIn s group dnta w mawap me popWula wegud anthat nmns for each indicator and sown only whn majonty
orlth counitnes ma group hbdedta tor hio indicat Sim the corage oftounim among th indcato dends on tw avalability ofdata sa dis not unhorm.
Cauion mug beenuuas in laing awaps otone indimor to another Thu vata ae only udul in comparng the value d one inditcato alame ismong
te coery nd uerine grou
AREA (thousand so.km.)                                         Cud BAWl Rare (per thm* ndl-Number of live births in the year
Teal-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters  pe thusn of mud-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
196o. 970 and 1983 data-                                       Crdir Det Ra  (pwr uhmuad-Nmber of deaths in the year
_grde Fhwal-Esimte of ailtural ar  usd temporarily or          per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
penanetlyforcrops. pastures. market and kitchen gardcns or to  Gros Repmswdel Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fslow 1960. 1970 and 1982 datiL                            wiN bear in her normal reproductive period if she experienes
prst agepeck fiertility rates: usualy five-year aveags ending
GNiP PER CAPFTA CUSSP-ONP per capita estimate at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, callculated by -u  conversio  method as World   Fmff  P-m---Aacwos. Annua (rh.usandsD)-Annual num-
Bak Atlas (198143 basis): 1913 data.                           ber of acceptors of birth-cotro devieunder auspices or national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family plang program
consunption of commerial prmary energy (coal and lignite.      kudl flsar4lm  (pewcer aommuid saneun-The peen-
patolm  natural ps and hydro-. nuclear and geothemal eec       tage of mried won of child-bearing age who are practing or
tricityr in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any forn of contrception. Women
19U2 dta.                                                      of child-beaing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usag is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISnCS                                 groups
Toda ftp.latia. Mid- Yew (rhousaads-As of Ju ly 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 198 data.7
UrYan ftp_Iad.u (percent qi remIt-Ratio of urban to totald     lndttefheAPrebsdoa Per Capsr (I N-71 - IM)-I ndex of per
Urbm  opulim fpvm  o  wrek--Raio o  urba   to otal capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  exclde anima fd and seed for agricuture. Food commodities
bility of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities eg sgauprcane intead of supri
hputati. A*crion                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Ppulaatim in ear 20001-The projection of population for 2000.  cxcludedj; they compri  cereals. root crops. pul  oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with infomiauon on  vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugprcane and supr beets livestock, and
ptoal population by age and sex. fertilit) rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intenstional migration in the base ycar 198. tbex parametr     on national averag  producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
we  projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 dat.
assnptot unmit the populaiao became StationO3.- - Pe Caps Supp  .fCabres (p  c                     rqarreneene-Compuc-
Stanonary ppdoatllios one in wbich age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in countrv
taity rates have not changd over a long peiod. whil age-specific  per capita per day. Availabie supplies compnse domesttc produc-
ertility rates have simultaneously remaned at replcement lel   tion. imports less exports and changes in sock. Net supplies
lnet reproduction rate-i). In such a populationL the birth rate is  exdude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quanuties used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age stnrture is also  food procesing and losse sin distribution. Requirements were
constanL and the growth rate is zero. The stationary popubltion  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nornal acuvity
size was estimnated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level                                      wast at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pop.l.leon  Meoi nIs the tendency for population growth to    Phr Capit Supply of Proen fgrmt per dip i-Protein content of
continue bryond the dtme that replacementlevel fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries establisbed by USDA
unity. The mornentum of a population in the yer  is meaurd as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 gms of total protein per
a  ido of dhe uldmtite statoa  population to the populaton in  day and 20 grams of anirnal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. gven the assmption that fertility remains at replae-  should be animal protein. These standardsare lower than those of
ment levd from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grans of animal protein as an
kP_,ati  Desiy                                                 average for the world, propowd by FAO in the Third World Food
hr sqgkn.-Mid-year populdon per square kilometer (100 bec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area 1960.1970. and 1983 data.                 Pr Capia herein Suppfy Frm Amnel ad Pa,re-Protein suppil
Per sqk  amicultal 1ud-Computed as above for agricultural      offoodderivedfromnaialsandpulesingramsperday: 1%145.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1932 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Pt_p.riu Age Strwtre (percemrl-Children (0-14 yearsL work-     Cl (ages 1-4) Deat Rare (per h-ussa.edi-Number of deaths of
ingagell.5-64years).andretired (65yeanandovenaspercentage      chddren aged t-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-yer population: 1960.1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For m-t developing countries data derived
Pbpularbm Grkwth Rare (pecmr4-walAnnual growth rates of        from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
totl mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
PepuAwie. Growsh Rar (perear)-urban --Annual growth rates      Lafe Expectacy at Bbth (yearn-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197043 data,     infant would live if prevailing panerns of mortalitv for all people



- 38-                                      ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at t  time of ofIl b     tolmsh   t  Sy the alw throuou   lk  A*N.weAhw Rado - Pbnea. ad ucndP-TOI studoe  a.
1960 1970 ad 10 dfia. -                                       14 t    1 primaIs   ad sucoia  levb divided by numbr of
Ah  a   AM,                             ofimh=whode          t_h_ asin dho  tre "upd    bvel
b ar.m       alng m  year atp per ftbunMi Eve births ina igiv
yuan 1960 l970ue  "11  data                                  CONUWWrIO
Amer  * siI WA   rJumi ~~-             u~ wh% aid            mnmm  cot (ONe abmd Oep.weu-fhueagr   canm-.
umed-twmber oft paple (1 uA. mii       el) wit  Uamhloar can ned o                    thW daengft pouec audd  aumbul
mme to ohb                               NI     *|enuff  a,,_ _M             o1 0beeor wWd_S iL
tOuu     buwter191  lnU    13 w    u iatau SenRam   eam   i   iitr  eils
----Ir ISed bimp U d Wia     WA) aNi Uwo                    JtWPbh Raidger (Off fheawmd#Pe,dulm-All types of recevers
b     U     g and In       * v 3)'ma 1 pube   at their       J for radio broadtu to  nera Pubic pw    thousnd of popuaton
tIMW    F O ppl tlo.Il an0 AUbM aMa a , ublic   NWmbe orsanpa  add  unko  t m  in conti  an  nynwe
a_ ftwka  ooab  sme o do   i                in  edar    rugpatrtiomaof radio ste wu in dIac- data for recat yani may
wo"11 b01m_ual1eareieefwXbecmaal ic mou( cuwW aboHdwd                                      i∞rb∞
bomelulold'oueawtirvapemi a dlrape,eo.  pan of d, day        Tvaad*m (Aw dommepwW)-TV reevers for broadcast
In Ibuhin thuIhady~a iserande0W11pubi per thm-i populaton -cadu. unilcensed TV
Am    Enema    o-                                   _ +__p_-w , w   re e    cnteo  ad in Yom wha reeistm  of TV sm wus
md  i-NI      bw r  po   (toeL . o  aid N uraldJ) srbind"
name dip.. i PKeulum  of bir ru_ad I                                                        Auou  .     Ca- ws th avr
E    a dlepo    may betde the     E  ai o          or        uP a∞uulal  Of Id    gn al" a s nawaPu. dand as a
witho  t_1aa, of huMIm eip   s am wastewatar by waterl                pubiadonderoindprimarily to rin as eralnw.
barn syum or the   o  Orip vino                              Itcil  I siduIl d Itobe dely' itappeatstr fouri t aiu a week.
-p  p. uj3.~  P~r'1*"'. dMW by number of p             Chrom Ama_ Arf-Gum  pe Capin pw Yes-DaBedon the
dsinphyulcla.qualllsdftamauulkacschooltuolvershtyeveL        nuambr of tcke  so  dg   te Year. includins adWsidmisn to
hd.pw  N W h            -13puldon divided by number or       dn        mimand molbd urn.
prcIdimale an   In  pdmte mnums.s assisan nurse.             LOKVOC
1 _i_l,w adbiu                                                LABORFn
pealwhep.,;            - ar wm, _d                           Twea lak  FPt frkmeudaj-Economically active pano  n-
(total, urban. and rua) divided by twir   p   n er           cludig aumed fom  and unmployed but excluding houwivs.
baun"ul beds avaailabe mu pic and pewvat. genaual and speciaited tct comt   populaion of1 aD aee. DeFnitions in
hospitals aid reailiation =M La. Hepia  ae essbliu                         i anot compusbiab  1960. 190 and 1983 date.
pummudy stafad by    aw     p        nsahdmu p               Femoh (Formw-Femk labor fes F= pueretaeP of tota  bor
;du P-mk  t cumodiul cm am ano iusd. 1Siwa hor.              for
houuvmdudebaealthadmediaoemmops                                        (p.r f J-Labor tom  in rau, Forestry. hunting
by a plysidn (but by a mudcil asum, num                      and biting   pecentap   of tota labor for  1960.1970 ad 1980
whth afer r-puu aioo ado. an povide aimid ran                daa.
of awdic_ facilities.                                        fadei (        J-Labor force in ming. contruction. nianu-
A.4      _. pew Uepb  Mih-Todul nmbe of admions to or         cuin  Ndecricty, wa  and Ps as Perent ag of toun labr
discar  from hopitls divided by the number of beds.          or96 1960 70 I and 1980 datL
.utd~Ese    (perrej-------  a- l_A. deasf lr-Ponrticipation
HOUSIG                                                       or activit rats an computed a touL male, and remle labor force
Asan -4 MM of  UW          (p.m p.   M-^ wa puma    Or total ml and female populaton of all ages
du- homsoldeaeso(aGf&oupot -J !doaslwhoshe                  rmpmivly; 1960 1970. and 1963 data. Ts are bad on ILOs
lving qutsws ndtrm a iam      . dA boado% or ldr my or       pariciption rm  rdecting ag-e structumrethe popuaion, and
my n  be iud  in do ihomdhold for stscpuW      o lus,        b   time trend. A few estmat ar from namional sum:.
A.,  Nm_ qpn_ par  _R _,-UAi. wkm  ai pme-                   E.ade DNPeulue  Ark-atio of population unde  5. and
Aveage number of penl pr room  in al urban. and rur          65 and ovet to the working ag population (diose aed 1564).
occupied conetiol dweln. respectivuly. Dwenp exude
noo-pernen  sructue and unoccupied par                       ICOME DISTRIBLIION.
pamu  of D_Eq  wis E_mtky-4", wh, ad r                      Pwear    of Toa DOpushl lwwa rilrA i cas ad kiad)-
Conventional dweip with electricity in lIh   quts as per-    Aruing to percnti proups of househoW ranked by total house-
Mag of totaL uban and rur dwelinp amp vely.                  hold income.
EDCATION                                                     POVT TARGET GROUPS
Aag J_ EW         s R                                        The foglmwing estates a  v ry    x    measr of ovety
A~7 cdp    d - ad. mob  edjle   -Gra  totl. male and        leve    d shod  be iterrtd wit coniderble cauto
femal enlet of a no at the peimry levd a pumt     of         EaidmedA&ke    Rawery Ar*wa Lad (S$ per cape J-_w&
rspecive pary           P popuatons Whil may counrtie        ad  mWi-Abuolute Povrty  come  vd is th  icome levd
codr p_my shol     to be 6.11 ya.  othm  do not. re          blow wich a Miniml nutionaly adequate dit plus estial
diffemen  in comary p     i the am and duration of school    nn-food requirmens is not affordabkl
ae rdbcad in the   o        For some countries widt univerdl  Ew£  m     bR    kP   lcy beow Leed rtUS.Up  cqiJ_-wil
educaion. pe  enolmet may excedI 100 pecent sinee some         d MWe-Rural rdative povety income kvd is one-third of
pupds ame bow or above the coutrys standa  prmary-chool    saerag per capit pOal income of the coutry. Urban kWve is
ge                                                           deive from the rnuWr  level with adjustmt for biger cot or
Sevedwy scbol - ted. mdl  id fef-Compuzed a abov            livin in urban area
scondary eduatk  requt at t  four years or aproved pL.       fswj   hpfjg  Belw Aho. Avr lac. Lad (per-
mary mnstuton provide gnaL voeationaL or teaher trmnng       cra - Prcet of popution (urba and rural
intuctios for pupils usually of 12 to 17 yea of age correspond-  whofn ae  bsolue poor.-
cc couSe are snemly excluded.
V     odm M f£woln (pecM q,f JecoiryJ-Vocetional  iti.                 Co        e Analysis and Data Divmion
tions includtechnici. idusial or oth  propms  which opau            Economic Analyts and Projections Depatmnt
inepedendy or as departments of secondy itutio s                                     June 1985



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                                          .
AM0 I
-39-                                 P_ 5 cof 6
Poplticn:       6.225 Idlltzn (a-1983)
G  pr Cita: Es5=0 (md-1983)
1984
Ms       Per*it                   A1  Qm     aith  11m (Z)
IrAdIC ato        u1l1iam   of m         1975i-)     1981     1982      1983    1984
MP, Fator coAt             2224        84        -0.7       L7      -2.1      40       -2.0
OP, Market Prices          2638      1O         -1.1      6.2      -2.8     -2.0    -1.3
AgKculture                382        15         0.5       8.2    -11.7      8.4      9.7
mfiit                     363        14        -3.0       4.7      0.0      3.0    -80
Otbjr 1Inustiyl           653        25        -0.2       5.1     -0.9      5.1    -1.3
Services                 1240        46         0.4      6.5      -1.6    -43    -3.5
Cim- tixo                  2232        85         0.0       9.3     -8.8     -4.4    -1.5
Grow  1neatint              370        14       -16.9    -11.1    -23.5    -24.2   -4.2
--= ofGo  & MS              964        37        -3.5    -12.8      15.7     -9.7    -.0
TuuuoItI of Gods& N5FS      928        35        -&9    -16.0    -22.0    -15.6   -13.5
Qos 1=stIc  Ssvin           406        16         0.0    -482    -26.6       83.9      6.3
.Maur F                       G  re l Gaver,,,:M2       Omtral Gomu  (1984)
iR  In.)      Z ofd         ( R ln.)        Z oF GP
.zreat Rectpo                                               1,098          23.2
Ozreat ETpeidttwfes                                        1,303          27.5
Ocrent Surplw                                               -205           43
5pitdl lllndtue                                              182           3.9
Exterml Flnimn,                                              58            1.2
tcY, (IEMT &W PMR                                                                  (Spt.)
1975   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Milliot  K, End Period)
lmym" ad Qsi ime                         493    907    979   13D9   1454   1704   1871
llk (edit to Govetment                   318   1355   1495   1983   2099   2287   2512
hik Cmudit to Pdvate Sector3            393    5D5    765    905   1052   122D   1411
cP    itm   M  Idex Rners)
)Mmy nIdQ      Mmey as   of             31.3   29.6   28.4   36.4   34.8   36.0   14.2
WhoIeasle Price I1   (1966-100)4       18L6  424.2  475.9  542.8  663.7  829.2
kAad penta$          dwge In:
Wholegle Prtie  Ind                   16.6   11.1   12.2   14.1   22.3   24.9
Blk Credit to Gierrunt              406.9   2D.8   10.3   32.7    5.8    9.0   12.8
Bsk Ciedtt to Private Sector3         17.0    4.6   51.4   18.3   16.2   16.0   20.5
1 tufaeturita,   .tructon, electricity, gassl water.
2 Figae do tmt differ siwdftamtly frm  Tatral Gomuinit.
3 InIds perastaa orxaitraticm.                                             EAISK
4 All dMstieally umd goods.                                                Jiumy 29, 1986



- 40 -
ANlE3 I
PaR  6of 6
ZAMBIA
UV= PA5EI AND CAP=T F LO
BAIANCE OF PASMETtS                                             MERNCNDISE EXPORI  1984
1981    1982   1983   1984
(Millions TU$)                                  US$ Mnn.  Z
Exports of Goods, NFS         1,129   1,067   1,005    964    Copper                     685     82
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,633   1,410   1,043    928    Coallt                     74       9
Resource Gsp (deficit = _)     -504   -343    -38        36   lInd and Zinc               31       4
All other                47       5
Factor Services (net)a         -218   -235   -188   -221          Total                  837     100
Net Transfers                  -158    -72    -50    -51                               -        -
Balance on Current Accont      -880   -650   -276    -236
EX23AiL tEB3T, Dec. 31, 1984
Official Grants                  26      30      42      50
Direct Foreitp  Investment       . .            ..      ..                                    US$ Iln.
Net MLT Borrowtng               220     258     128    134    RIblic afth, ncl. guaranteed   2,817
Disbursements                 407     350     176    155    Nbn-  cranteed Private Debt         ..
AmortizatiOn a                187      92      48      21    Ibtal  jtsrandn  & Disbursed   2,817
Net IF                          367    -57       64      75
Commercial Pabvents Arrears      53     240    -50       25
Other Items (o.e.i.)            176    267       67    -53    DEBT SERVI(  RAI13 KR 1984
Oiange in RPserves               38    -88       25       5                                    Z
C- = inceagse)
Public Debt, *ci. guaranteed  7.4 b
Memorandun Items                                                Ncx-Qmxraneed Private Debt
Total Qbentanding & Disbursed  .74 b
Gross Int'l. Reserves            52     140    115    110
(weeks of lTports)             (1.7)   (5.2)   (5.7)  (6.3)
Current A/C Bal. as Z wiP     -21.9  -16.7   -8.2   -8.2    m=D/IDA IENDING, Mbrch 31, 1985
(Million US$)
RATES OF EQaNME                                                                           IR3   IDA
YMSCha
wtstandiug & Disbursed 337.92   43.03
1981     t$1.O0   =          0.8684                            lkidfsbzrsed             108.23  139.52
1982                         0.9282                            Outstanding ineJ-
1983                         1.2506               Ubdisbursed                           446.15  182.55
1984                         1.7943                                                             . -
a Exrludes arrears an interest and amortizatlon payments ad aunts rescheduled.
b Actual debt service paid on Public and Publically Guaranteed debt, excluding arrears and IMF
repaymn ts. Scheduled debt service due on PPG debt ias equivalent to 46.1 percent of exports of goods
and non-factor servioes.
..not available                                                                       Jabuiary 29, 1986



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of Mar. 31, 1985)
Amount tn USS Mtllton
(Less Cancellations)
Loan   Credit                                                                      Undisbursed
No.    No.       Year   Borrower           Purpose                  Bank    IDA   Loan Credit 1/
21 Loans fully
disbursed                                 448.78
1566    798      1978   Zambta             Third Hithway            11.25   11.25  11.25   2.09
863     1979   Zambia             Coffee Production                  6.00           0.05
873     1979   Zambia             Technical Assistance               5.00           0.83
1790    973      1980   Zambta             Third Railway            25.00   15.00   5.55   0.13
1923             1981   Development        Second Development
Bank of Zambla   Finance Company           15.00            0.15
2001             1981   Zambia             Eastern Provtice
Agrtc. Development      11.00             6.67
1193     1982   Zambta             Southern Province
Agrtc. Development               18.00          13.83
1196     1982   Zambta             Smallholder Datry Dev.             7.50           6.76
1251     1982   Zambta             Fifth Education                   25.00          17.12
2151             1982   Zambta Indus-
trial & Mintng
Company           Oil Reftnery Mod. Eng.  5.10              3.01
2152             1982   Zambta             Pet. Exploration Prom.  6.60              2.30
1333     1983   Zambia             Maamba Coal Eng.                   4.30           1.97
1362     1983   Zambta             Rural Water Supply                10.00           7.04
SF2       1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply                 6.00           3.90
1437     1984   Zambia             Ind. Forestry-PhaseI              22.40          20.25
2391             1984   Zambia             Export Rehab. & Dtver. 75.00             24.87
1529     1985   Zambia             Fishertes                          7.10           7.49
1545     1985   Zambia             Agricultural Rehab.               25.00          14.09
A0005      1986   Zambia             Agrtcultural Rehab.              10.00          10.00
1575     1985   Zambia             Fourth Ratlways                   20.00          20.00
1630     1986   Zambia             Industrial Reor.                  20.00          12.52
A0004      1986   Zambta             Industrtal Reor.                 42.00          25.17
1627     1986   Zambia             Tazama Ptpeltne Reh. Eng.          3.10           3.10
1662     1986   Zambia             Fertilizer Ind. Rest.2/           10.00          10.00
1679     1986   Zambia             Second Tech. Asst. 2/ _            8.00           8.00
Total                                            597.73  275.65  53.80 184.34
of vhtch has been repatd                        145.53      -       -      -
Total now outstanding                            452.20  275.65
Amounts sold                         28.58
of which has been repaid           28.58           -        -
Total now held by Bank/IDA                       452.20  275.65
of which is undisbursed                          53.80  184.34
NOTES:  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-ftnanced projects in executton, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
1/ Credtts denominated In SDRs (Credtt 1193-ZA and above) are shown in US Dollar equivalents,
based on the exchange rate tn effect at the time of negotiattons.
2/ Not yet effective



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of Mar. 31, 1986)
Investment   Commitment                                        USS Million Equivalent
No.          Year                       Type of Business      Loan  Equity      Total
216-ZA       1972   Zambia Bata Shoe                           0.85   0.23        1.08
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing
250-ZA       1973   Zamhia  Bata Shoe  Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery            1.20    -          1.20
307-ZA       1975   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials  0.78   0.21         0.99
324-ZA       1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia           Company                -     0.54        0.54
394-ZA       1978   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials  0.10    -           0.10
483-ZA       1980   Zambia Consoli-    Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production            28.00    -         28.00
427-ZA       1980   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited      Textiles & Fibers    7.60    -           7.60
600-ZA       1982   Zambia Consoli-
dated Copper Mines Copper Production   25.14    -           25.14
709-ZA       1984   Zambia Hotel
Properties Ltd.    Tourism               18.35    -         18.35
743-ZA       1985   Mpongwe Develop-   Food and Food
ment Co. Ltd.,      Processing            1.81   0.29        2.10
721-ZA       1985   Kafue Textiles of  Textiles & Fibers    3.15    -             3.15
Zambia Limited
Total gross commitments                  86.98   1.27       88.25
Less cancellations, termtnations,
repayment and sales                   32.29   0.20       32.49
Total now held by IFC                    54.69   1.07       55.76
Total undisbursed                         5.75    -          5.75



-43 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
RECOVERY PROGRAM
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First presentation to the Association:            December, 1985
(b)  Appraisal mission:                                March, 1986
(c)  Completion of negotiations:                       May 21, 1986
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    July 1, 1986
II.   Special Implementation Action by the Assoclation
None
III.  Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of effectiveness:
No special conditions.
(b) Conditions for the release of the second tranche:
See Annex V.
(c) Other Covenants:
(i)    The Borrower to carry out this project in accordance with
an agreed Implementation Program (i.e. through the
foreign exchange auction system);
(ii)   the Borrower to submit to the Association, not later than
December 31, 1986 an acceptable plan of action for
implementing a tariff structure aiming at greater
uniformity in effective protection;
(iii)  the Borrower to implement the recommendations of the
on-going study on the organization of MAWD by
December 31, 1986;
(iv)   the Borrower to institute by December 31, 1986 a system
of periodic independent audits of ZCCK's mining
operations;



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(v)    the Borrower to begin implementing, by December 31, 1986
a program of action for improving external debt
management;
(vt)   the Borrower to take certain actions aiming at phasing
out subsidies on maize, with September 30, 1987 as the
final target date.



-45 -               ANNEXIV
MINISTY OF ANANCE
P.O. Box S50
MF/MIN/36
23rd April, 1986.
Mr. E.V.K. Jaycox,
Vice President,
Eastern and Southern Africa Region,
The World Bank,
1818 H. Street N.W.,
WASHINGTON D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Jaycox,
In our letter to you dated June 13, 1985, we summarized
the progress my Government had made in the previous twelve
month,s on the macroeconomic and sector reforms. We also
indicated to you in that letter the other reforms that we
intended to take with the support of the Industrial Reorienta-
tion Project. These additional actions have now been substa-
ntially completed, and although some re±oj..is, mainly of an
institutional nature, remain to be impl'emented, I believe that
there is presently in place the core policy framework needed to
bring about the structural changes required in the economy.
The purpose of this letter is to inform you of the progress
that has been made during the past ten months in implementing
further reforms and to outline to you our plans for extending
the reforms in the coming months. One of our major objectives
is to ensure that the reforms which we have already initiated
achieve the desired effect.
As you are no doubt aware, 1985 was a very difficult year
for the Zambian economy. Copper production declined by a further
43,000 tonnes. Moreover, the projected modest improvement in
copper prices failed to materialise. These developments resulted
in a significant worsening of the foreign exchange shortage. The
scarcity of foreign exchange in turn 'Led to serious difficulties
in the importation of essential inputs, including crude oil, and
the servicing of our external debt obligations. As a result of
the shortage of imported inputs the manufacturing sector operated
at only 30 - 35 per cent of installed capacity in 1985.
The rapid decline in export earnings over the past two years
brought our external debt servicing difficulties to a head during
1985. These difficulties are illustrated by:
(i) our inability to make the monthly deposits into
the special account established under the 1984
Paris Club rescheduling agreement;



ANNEX IV
- 46 -            Page 2 of 13
(ii) the non-payment of scheduled 1985 maturities due
to the Paris Club and other bilateral creditors;
(iii) the accumulation of arrears of US$125 million to
the IMF by year-end;
(iv) the build-up of arrears amounting to US$25 million
to the other multilateral institutions, and
(v) the inability to reduce the large commercial pay-
ments arrears.
As a result of the above developments, and despite a strong
recovery in agriculture following the easing of drought conditions,
real per capita income failed to rise yet again. Prices increased
rapidly during the year, mainly because of the supply shortages
caused by the scarcity of foreign exchange. As noted by your dele-
gation to the December 1985 Consultative Group meeting, the unfavour-
able conditions that prevailed during 1985 set back our economic
recovery and diversification programme by about a year.
In an effort to stabilize economic conditions and provide a
firmer basis for recovery and growth, my Government introduced a
number of important policy changes in October 1985. These changes
are fully consistent with the reform measures taken earlier and with
the objectives set out in our letter of June 13, 1985. The single
most important change was the liberalization of the foreign exchange
and trade system. The new systpm centrep on a weekly foreign
exchange auction which provides the primary mechanism for allocating
and determining the exchange rate of the Kwacha. With the introduc-
tion of the auction, the value of the Kwacha vis-a-vis foreign
currencies has fluctuated within a range which is very conducive
to the promotion of exports in general and non-mineral exports in
particular. This means that the exchange rate is no longer an
impediment to our economic recovery and diversification efforts.
The auction has the additional advantages of providing equal access
to foreign exchange and minimizing the role of officials in the dis-
tribution of foreign exchange.
With the introduction of the foreign exchange auction, import
licensing ceased to be a tool for the control of imports. Tariffs
now provide the means of controlling imports for the purpose of
protecting local industry. Import licences are now therefore issued
upon request and are used for registration and documentation purposes
only.
The Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) is exempted from
the auction because of the dominant position of the company in both
the generation and the use of foreign exchange. The foreign ex-
change requirements of Government are also allocated outside the
auction. Although ZIMOIL, TAZARA, and Zambia Airways were initially
exempted !rom the auction, foreign currency payments by these organi-
zations have, since February, 1986, been channelled through the auction.
Our experience with the auction so far has been encoura-
ging. The auctioning process has worked smoothly and public
confidence in it is growing.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 13
Since foreign exchange is now being allocated by market
forces rather than by administrative means, we expect a
significant increase in the efficiency of resource alloca-
tion in the economy. This should, in turn, raise the effi-
ciency of domestic production and increase the competitive-
ness of Zambian goods in external markets.
In spite of its advantages, the new foreign exchange
and trade regime is not without problems. There was, firstly,
the problem of the big jump in inflation which was the direct
result of the full pass-through of the exchange rate adjustment
to domestic prices. Secondly, there is the problem of assuring
a regular and adequate supply of foreign exchange to the
auction. Without a steady injection of foreign exchange into
the auction the Kwacha would tend to fluctuate wildly and,
worse still, to depreciate excessively against foreign curre-
ncies. Thirdly, there is the problem of balancing the advantages
of import competition against the harm done to local industry
by such competition.
In the monetary area we had, with effect from September 2,
1985, abolished interest rate controls and created a daily
treasury bill market. This resulted in a substantial rise in
commercial bank lending rates, from 17.5 to over 30%. While
interest rates will continue to change in response to money
market conditions, we consider that, given the country's economic
and financial circumstances, the current lending rates appro-
ximate free market rates. Savings deposit rates have also riscn
significantly. These measures are expected to attract savings.
improve the allocation of scarce capital resources and lead to
a lower capital intensity of investment and production. At the
same time the daily treasury bill market provides us with a power-
ful tool for managing domestic liquidity as well as aggregate
demand, which is essential for the success of our reform effort.
To complement the monetary, trade and exchange rate
reforms, we have introduced a number of measures at the sector
level. The general thrust of these measures is to place greater
reliance on market forces in the management of the economy. In
agriculture, both the retail and producer prices of maize have
been increased substantially. The producer price was increased
by nearly 100% to a level consistent with the estimated production
cost, allowing for the exchange rate adjustment. While we have
still not been able to reach full cost pricing of maize at the
retail level, we are committed to the elimination of the subsidy
at an early date in line with our obligation under the Agricul-
tural Rehabilitation Project.
We are also taking measures to reduce the subsidy through
increases in the efficiency of maize marketing and fertilizer
distribution. As a first step, we have eliminated Namboard's
monopoly in the marketing of maize and fertilizer, thus opening
the way for private trading in these products. Private entrepre-
neurs and co-operatives can now compete with Namboard in this
trade. In this way, we expect to achieve a substantial reduction
in marketing costs.



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 13
When the marketing system is fully liberalized Namboard will
become buyer and seller of last resort. Namboard will, in
addition to performing a price stabilization role, maintain the
nation's strategic food reserve. The Maize Marketing and
Fertilizer Distribution Study, currently under way, will provide
guidelines for institutional improvements which will facilitate
private participation in the marketing of these products.
Another priority in the agricultural sector    is the
improvement of research and extension. We have now adopted a
national strategy for research and extension, which focuses on
the provision of these services to small-holders. The impleme-
ntation of this strategy has already begun. Moreover, budgetary
allocations for research and extension have been increased in
real terms in the present budget. I should mention also that we
have initiated the merger of AFC and ZADB. The new institution
will become the primary agricultural credit institution in Zambia.
The combination of improved credit delivery and extension services,
with the latter providing more relevant technical advice based on
improved research, should go a long way towards raising the produc-
tivity and incomes of smallholders.
A number of measures have been taken recently to improve the
efficiency and competitiveness of the industrial sector. These
measures include the relaxation of the import licencing system,
the elimination of import prohibitions, and the reduction in the
maximum tariffs. We have also increased the minimum tariff from
10 per cent '.o 15 per cent and broadened its coverage to all but
a limited number of basic agricultural, educational and health
items. We have established a Tariff Commission which will soon
begin an in-depth study of the existing tariff structure and
indirect tax system, with a view to recommending changes that
will both increase Government revenue and provide a level of pro-
tection compatible with the needs of the Zambian economy.
We are making satisfactory progress in our efforts to
rationalise INDECO's production and investment programme. A
review of INDECO's 1986/87 investment programme has been completed.
The review resulted in the elimination of projects of doubtful
viability. The in-depth review of existing enterprises called
for in the Industrial Reorientation Credit agreement is well under-
way and we expect to present to the Bank shortly an action pro-
gramme for restructuring or otherwise re-establishing the economic
viability of these enterprises, as needed. The restructuring
effort may involve divestiture of part or the whole of INDECO's
shareholding in some companies as well as outside technical and
management services. An economic evaluation unit has been esta-
blished in INDECO. This unit is responsible for reviewing proposed
projects to ascertain their economic viability. Only investments
with adequate economic rates of return will be considered for impleme-
ntation and then only if these investments can be accommodated
within available resources. Financing through external commercial
borrowing will be discouraged.



-49 -               ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 13
With regard to private investment, I am pleased to inform
you that Parliament has passed the new Investment Act. We believe
that this Act, which provides a less regulatory and a more pro-
motional policy framework for the business sector, will encourage
both domestic and foreign private investment in Zambia. The
Government will, through ZINCO, promote joint ventures where nece-
ssary but ZIMCO need not be the majority shareholder. We have also
established an Export Development Board to encourage and assist
local exporters in all aspects of exporting. The Board is presently
being staffed and should be operational by June 30, 1986. As part
of our export drive, we intend to prepare a strategy and an action
programme for promoting non-traditional exports and to remove any
residual administrative restrictions affecting exports.
Our efforts to restore previous levels of efficiency and
profitability in the mining industry are continuing. The cost
saving and efficiency measures introduced over the past two years
have led to a lowering of production costs, and further gains are
expected in the future. ZCCM's 5-year production and investment
plan, which was accepted by the Bank in January, 1986, has been
approved by Government. The next, and more important step, is to
implement the plan in a cost-effective and timely manner. ZCCM
is preparing an implementation programme which will set out spe-
cific target dates for completion of the major components of the
plan. In addition, the annual investments to be made by ZCCM and
its subsidiary companies will be subjected to rigorous tests of
economic and financial viability. All investments over US$10 million
for ZCCM and in excess of US$0.5 million for its subsidiaries will
be subjected to such evaluation and a final annual investment budget
will be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to approval by
ZCCM's Board.
The successful implementation of the plan will require sub-
stantial foreign exchange resources. My Government has agreed to
allocate US$320 million to ZCCM during 1986. This allocation is
sufficient to cover ZCCM's foreign exchange requirements for pro-
duction and debt service. The Government will, over the next four
years, maintain ZCCM's foreign exchange allocation at a level con-
sistent with the effective implementation of the production and
investment plan. However, ZCCM will need in addition about $200
million over this period for investment purposes. Although some
of the investment capital has already been identified, substantial
further assistance from the donor community will be required. If
these resources are forthcoming and the plan is fully implemented,
the industry would regain international competitiveness and continue
to make a major contribution to the country's rehabilitation and
diversification effort.
In addition to the actions mentioned above, the Government
has embarked on a wide-ranging programme of parastatal reforms.
The policies we have adopted, particularly the policy of economic
pricing, require that the parastatals operate on a sound and pro-
fitable basis. Each parastatal will have to be economically viable,
This means that cross subsidization to cover operational losses
among parastatals will have to be eliminated.



50                ANNX IV
Page 6 of 13
The parastatals have already begun to adapt to the new policy
environment. Some have declared redundancies in an effort to
bring their establishments in line with capacity utilization.
Others, including Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia, Refined Oil
Products, National Milling, and United Bus Company of Zambia
have initiated major rehabilitation programmes. A comprehensive
review of Zambia Airways is underway with the objective of deter-
mining a course of action which will lead to the elimination of
the airline's losses.
For a variety of reasons, many of our parastatals have
experienced severe financial and operational problems in the
past five years. One of the prime causes of poor parastatal
performance was price control. As you are aware, the situation
has changed. Parastatals are no longer subject to statutory
or administrative price control. Rather, they have, since the
introduction of the foreign exchange auction, been free to adjust
prices in line with changes in production costs, especially
import costs. My Government is committed to the continuation
of this pricing system.
It will take time for the parastatals to adjust fully to
the new economic environment. The policies that we have intro-
duced will, we believe, ensure that decisions by the parastatals
are made mainly on the basis of economic factors. we will
prepare and issue shortly a policy statement dealing with the
financial relations between Government and parastatals. The
objective is to evolve criteria which will guide decisions
regarding capitalisation, loan guarantees, on-lending and the
take-over of parastatal debt.
The policy and institutional changes that I have described
above constitute the essential elements of the macroeconomic and
sector reforms required to stabilize the economy and, over the
medium and longer term, to bring about the structural adjust-
ments required for self-sustained growth and development. The
task now is to ensure success of the reforms. One of the key
determinants of success will be the support that will be forth-
coming from the donor community, both in the form of new capital
flows to Zambia and debt relief. In this regard, we were very
encouraged by the results of the June and December 1985 Consul-
tative Group meetings. The successful negotiation of a stand-
by arrangement with the IMF, together with a purchase under the
compensatory financing facility, has contributed towards the
mobilisation of additional external resources. I should also
mention here that we have reached an agreement with the Paris
Club regarding the rescheduling of 1985 and 1986 maturities.
While external assistance is necessary in order to increase
the availability of foreign exchange, my Government recognises
that a number of measures and actions are still required at the
domestic level if the reforms are to become effective. In the
remaining paragraphs of this letter I wish to outline our plans
regarding these additional measures and actions.



-51 -               ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 13
With the major reform package now completed, we believe
that the focus in the coming months should be on the ancilliary
macroeconomic and sector measures that are required to ensure
the effectiveness of the reforms we have instituted. we realise
the importance of generating public confidence in the reforms.
We also know that the reforms will become credible only if they
are seen to work, i.e. if there is an increase in domestic pro-
duction, if there is an expansion in employment opportunities,
if there is a significant increase in non-mineral export earnings,
etc.
In the area of planning and budgeting our objective is to
make the public sector budget a more effective instrument of
economic management. In the past, expenditure priorities have
not been properly established and expenditure controls have been
weak. Consequently, the public sector has tended to grow out of
proportion to the services required from the sector and consi-
derable resources have been expended on low-return activities.
on the revenue side, the tax structure has not been adjusted
adequately to reflect the fall-off in mineral revenues.  In order
to correct these and other deficiencies, we intend to do the
following things in the coming months:
a.   prepare a comprehensive public sector expenditure
programme that supports our strategy of economic
recovery and diversification. This programme
will consist of two elements, namely a core invest-
ment sub-programme of high priority projects, and
a supplemental sub-programme to be undertaken should
resources be available. The first such programme
would be completed this year and the main elements.
incorporated in the 1987 budget;
b.   tighten expenditure control to p-revent overspending
by ministries;
c.   ensure that supplementary estimates approved during
the course of the year conform to the spending
priorities already established;
d.   introduce strategic planning at the ministerial
level. To this end, the sector chapters of the
annual plan will be prepared by the sector ministries,
with the involvement of senior planners and policy
makers;
e.   have the Central Committee and Cabinet approve the
general procedures to be followed in the 1986/87
planning and budgeting cycle and the guidelines and
ministerial ceilings based on the annual plan;
f.   initiate the planning and budgeting cycle in April
of each year, using tentative budget ceilings;
g.   develop, prior to each budget cycle, written oulines,
work programmes and schedules;



- 52 -              A~xNN  IV
Page 8 of 13
h.   undertake an assessment of the annual planning
exercise at the end of the 1987 budgeting cycle;
i.   carry out a comprehensive review of the tax
system, includirng the tax regime applicable to
ZCCM, in time for the results to be incorporated
in the 1987 budget;
J.   prepare and issue policy guidelines specifying
the circumstances and conditions under which
the Government will absorb the debts of the
parastatals;
k.   prepare and issue a policy statement on external
commercial borrowing in the public sector, and
1.   prepare an action plan for improving debt mana-
gement in the Ministry of Finance and National
Commission for Development Planning.
With the introduction of the auction, the administration of
foreign exchange has become much more efficient.  For a large
segment of the economy foreign exchange is now being allocated to
the most efficient users through the auction mechanism. However,
a portion of the foreign exchange is still allocated administra-
tively. It is our intention to broaden in the near future the
coverage of the auction to include most of the users, including
Government, who are currently obtaining foreign exchange outside
the auction. For the reasons I have already given ZCCM's foreign
exchange requirements will continue to be met outside the auction.
Because of the current and prospective tight foreign exchange
situation, we consider it essential to make further improvements
to foreign exchange management. We have prepared a monthly foreign
exhange budget and forecast and are in the process of preparing
a weekly cash flow. The next step is to make the weekly cash flow
an effective tool of day-to-day management. Substantial improve-
ments in the information and reporting systems of the Bank of
Zambia are required to make this happen. Consequently, it is our
intention to take the following measures in the next few months:
a.   seek technical assistance to assist the Bank of
Zambia to improve its organization, procedures and
systems so that the proper flows of data and
information are available to the Bank's manage-
ment and to other decision-makers involved in the
management of foreign exchange;
b.   review, with the help of consultants, if necessary,
the organizational structure of the Bank of Zambia
and    carry out a manpower audit and    take steps
to streamline the organization in a manner consistent
with the reduced volume of work following the liberali-
zation of the trade and foreign exchange system;



~ 53      ~      ANNME IV
Page 9 of 13
c.   prepare a monthly foreign exchange budget
covering the calendar year and a further
two year forecast and have this budget
approved at ministerial level prior to
the start of the budget period and esta-
blish regular reporting linkages with ZCCM,
MEMACO, and the commercial banks in order
to capture all export and invisible receipts:
d.   make the weekly, monthly and annual foreign
exchange budgets and forecasts a tool of
economic management through flexible budgeting
techniques.
We believe that it is possible to effect major sa,rings in
the purchase of commodities by adjusting our import procedures.
A 1983 study indicated that Zambia was paying as much as 50 - 70
per cent more for the purchase of these commodities than was
necessary. Consequently, we intend to undertake a study of the
current purchasing and payment methods and procedures for commo-
dities such as maize, wheat, dairy products, edible oils, oilseed
cake, petroleum products, and possibly selected manufactured
products. On the basis of this study, we will prepare an action
plan by mid-1987 to improve the procurement systems.
In agriculture, we intend to phase out direct controls over
the producer price of maize as quickly as possible, and in any
case not later than the 1987 harvest. Namboard, acting as buyer
of last resort, will stabilize the price at an agreed minimum
level. It is also our intention to eliminate the consumer sub-.
sidies on maize and fertilizer within the same time scale,
provided the economic situation permits us to do so without impo-
sing too great a burden on the consumer. As the seller of last
resort, Namboard will assist to stabilize mealie meal prices.
Furthermore, with the introduction of private trading in maize
and fertilizer marketing improved efficiency is expected to result
in lower prices for these items.                   s
In addition to the above, our priorities in agriculture in
the coming months include improvements in the liberalized marke-
ting system, the research and extension services and the agricul-
tural credit delivery system. We also plan to initiate an export
promotion programme with the view to identifying and promoting
agricultural exports. To accomplish these objectives, we propose
to:
a.   complete the ongoing study of maize marketing
and fertilizer distribution and implement its
recommendations;
b.   continue the implementation of the national strategy
for research and extension;
C.   carry out the merger of AFC and ZADB, establish
clear policies and procedures, including lending



-54-
ANNMEX IV
Page 10 of 13
criteria, for the new institution, capitalize
it adequately and ensure that the management
has the full co'mplement of specialized
technical personnel;
d.   initiate a review of the potential for exporting
agricultural crops and prepare an action plan
for each of the major export crops (tobacco, cotton,
groundnuts, oil seeds, etc.) to implement the
recommendations of this review;
e.   initiate  a study of the land tenure system with
the view to revising the current practice of not
permitting private ownership of farm land;
f.   prepare by June 30, 1986 an action plan for imple-
menting the recommendations of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Development Evaluation study
and begin implementation of the plan by September
30, 1986, and
g.   formulate policies regarding irrigation and the
development of the livestock subsector.
We will proceed to implement the 5-year production and
investment plan prepared by Z~CC within the shortest possible
time. The timetable for completing the -major components of this
plan is as follows:
a.   close Chambishi Mine and concentrator by
September 30, 1986;
b.   close IConkola No. 3 shaft by September 30, 1986;
co   close Kansanshi mine by June 30, 1986;
d.   close Nkana oxide concentrator by June 30, 1986;
e.   close Luanshya Smelter by December 31, 1987
(following the rehabilitation of Nkana smelter);
f.   close Ndola copper ref inery tank house- by
December 31, 1987;
g.   close Kabwe division by December 31, 1987;
h.   complete management restructuring and reduction
in manning at corporate level by June 30, 1986
and at divisional level by September 30, 1986;
i..  complete the improvements to the materials mana-
gement systems by December 31, 1987;
j.   implement the recommendations of the compensation
policy study by December 31, 1986; and



-55 -               ANNME IV
Page 11 of 13
k.   complete the reorganization of subsidiaries
by June 30, 1986.
The timely and successful implementation of this plan is
critical to the economic and financial viability of the mining
industry as well as to the future health of the economy. We
will therefore ensure that the implementation of the various
components of the plan is well co-ordinated and that the maximum
cost-effectiveness is achieved from the large investments that
are proposed. Careful monitoring and management of the imple-
mentation programme is required. To this end we intend to
strengthen the management of ZCCM. In order to ensure that the
programme is carried out efficiently the following actions will
be taken:
a.   engage a reputable mining consultant to carry
out semi-annual technical/management audits and to
advise ZCCM, Government and the Bank on the
general operational issues relating to the
implementation programme;
b.   through semi-annual or yearly reviews of ZCCM's
investment  programme,    ensure that the pro-
gramme is consistent with national priorities
and with the availability of resources, including
borrowed resources. As provided for in the
Export Rehabilitation and Diversification Loan
agreement, any capital investments in addition
to the agreed investment programme, exceeding
in the aggregate US$30 million in any given year,
will be submitted to the Bank for approval, and
c.   carry out a joint mid-term review (in mid-1987)
of progress on implementation of the plan. ZCCM,
Government, the Bank and other co-financiers will
participate in that review.
If our efforts to diversify the economy are to be successful,
we need to take actions to encourage export growth as soon as
possible. The establishment of the Export Development Board is
an important step towards strengthening the institutional set-up
for export promotion. However, we need to do more to ensure that
the country's export potential is fully developed. Consequently,
we intend to prepare a non-mineral export strategy to guide us
in this effort. we hope to complete this strategy, for which we
may need technical assistance, by October 31, 1986 and begin
implementing its recommendations by the end of the year. The
review of the export potential in agriculture would form part of
this exercise. we expect to initiate the feasibility studies
for the export credit insurance and guarantee schemes by June 30,
1987 and implement the recommendations of these studies by
October 31, 1987.
In the industrial sector there is an urgent need to carry out
the planned review of the tariff structure and indirect tax system.



- 56 -              ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 13
Adjustments in these rates are required, we believe, to ensure
that the kinds of goods being imported are consistent with the
country's development objectives. Although this review is to
be carried out by the recentLy established tarrif commission,
we may require technical assistance-to accelerate the work. We
intend to complete this review not later than September 30, 1986
and implement its recommendations in the 1.987 budget. Also, the
proposed simplification of the, duty drawback system has lagged
behind its expected completion date,. as has the plan to simplify
the :xport licensing system, particularly as regards the export
of agricultural products. We intend to review the existing
systems by July 31, 1986, and implement the proposals for simpli-
fication by October 31, 1986. We may need technical assistance
for this work as well.
As regards INDECO, we intend to implement the action pro-
gramme to phase out or restructure, if necessary, some enterprises
as soon as the :otudies presently underway are completed. In cases
where it is necessary to phase out or restructure a company, an
action plan and a time-table for implementation will be drawn up
for the affected comp;any. It is our intention to invite outside
participation where possible. In addition, we intend to encourage
joint ventures between ZIMCO and private investors. We plan to
strengthen further the evaluation units recently established within
INDECO and DBZ. We intend to prepare a programme for identifying
project opportunities. We will encourage the private sector to
take up these investment opportunities. 'In both the public and
private sectors we will give priority to investments with positive
net foreign exchange earnings. The Export Development Board will
be strengthened so that it may contribute more fully to the drive
for industrial and agricultural exports. We intend to investigate
the potential for the establishment of a capital market which would
provide a productive outlet for funds tied up in insurance deposits,
pension funds, or savings of individuals. As a first step ZIMCO
will initiate a study to this effect.  If this proves feasible,
we intend to take steps to establish such a market. Finally, when
the present job evaluation study is completed, we will adjust the
salary and benefit structure within INDECO in such a way that the
company can recruit and retain qualified staff.
In the energy sector, where there is a large potential for
foreign exchange savings, and where large investments are planned,
we intend to prepare a comprehensive development strategy, including,
inter alia, a power system audit, a household energy strategy, a
fuel substitution strategy and an energy conservation strategy.
This will be followed by the preparation of an action plan to imple-
ment the strategy. In the health and population sector, where the
provision of services has deteriorated sharply in recent months,
we also intend to formulate a s:trategy, designed to shift the focus
from curative to preventive care, and to encourage private parti-
cipation in the provision of medical services and thus ease the
pressure on Government services. This would also be followed by
preparation of an action plan to implement the recommendations. We
may need technical assistance in the preparation of these strategies.



- 57
ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 13
The implementation of the measures and action which I
have discussed in this letter will occupy us over the coming
months. The actions that we intend to take will assist us to
consolidate the reforms that we have adopted.
My Government is committed to these reforms but, as you
know, it is very important that the foreign exchange auction
be adequately funded during the coming months. The proposed
IDA credit which is being prepared for Zambia will go a long
way towards increasing the availability of foreign exchange
for the auction.
We look forward to the continued support of the
Association in the months ahead.
Yours sincerely,
/  o
Basil R. Kabwe, MP,
MINISTER OF FINANC-E AND NATIONAL
COMMISSION FOR DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
:lkn



- 58 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of I
ZAMBIA
RECOVERY PROGRAM
CONDITIONS FOR RELEASE OF THE SECOND TRANCHE
The Borrower shall have:
(a) submitted to the Association an action program, acceptable to the
Association, for restructuring public expenditures;
(b) completed a review for broadening the scope of thp foreign
exchange auction system to include government transactions;
(c) submitted to the Association a policy statement, acceptable to
the Assoclation, setting forth the clrcumstan'es and conditions under which
the Borrower would consider absorbing the debts of the parastatal
enterprises;
fd) submitted to the Association a plan of action acceptable to the
Apsociation for implementing the recommendations of the agriculttural
marketing study carried out under the AgricultuLral Rehahilitation Project
(Credit No. 1545-ZA); and
(e) have taken or caused INDECO to take measures acceptable to the
Association for restructuring individual INDECO enterprises in accordance
with a plan of action submitted under the Industrial Reorientation Project
(Credit No. 1630-ZA).



