Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 11555
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
(CREDIT 1720-ZAM)
JANUARY 12, 1993
Country Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kwacha (K)
Initial Year (1986)                       Completion Year (1991)
US$1 = K 7.30                             US$1 = K 65.9
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOZ       -    Bank of Zambia
CDE       -    Contract Daily Employee
CG        -    Consultative Group
FEMAC     -    Foreign Exchange Management and Allocation Committee
INDECO    -    Industrial Development Assistance
LC        -    Letter of Credit
MMD       -    Movement for Multi-Party Democracy
NAMBOARD  -    National Marketing Board
NCDP      -    National Commission for Development Planning
NCZ       -    Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia
ODA       -    Overseas Development Assistance
OGL       -    Open General Licensing
PER       -    Public Expenditure Review
PFP       -    Policy Framework Paper
UNIP      -    United National Independence Party
ZCCM      -    Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZIMCO     -    Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1     -      December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Offlice of DIrector-Goneral
Operations Evaluation
January 12, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Zambia -
Economic Recovery Proffam (Credit 1720-ZAM)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Zambia -
Economic Recovery Program (Credit 1720-ZAM)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The
Government did not complete Part II, but provided a short comment accepting the findings of the
PCR.
The PCR indicates that the reforms included in the ERP will take a much longer time
to accomplish than was originally envisaged. The Economic Recovery Program, accompanied by
an IMF Stand-by, was a wide ranging and ambitious reform program. The PCR concludes that the
ERP got off to a good start but "unravelled" following food riots. Continued Bank ESW during
suspension of operations led to an eventual release of the second tranche and. partial salvaging of
certain policy elements of ERP. Foreign exchange allocation and foreign debt management
improved and parastatal reform and privatization began. Overall, the operation is rated as
unsuccessful and unsustainable.
The PCR provides a good narrative of developments during the period of the ERP but
contains little analysis and fails to address the need for economic diversification away from copper
dependency. This issue will be among those covered in the proposed audit of this adjustment
operation.
Attachment
This document haa a rstuicted distribution and maq be used by recipients only in the performance of their oMical duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be discsosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
(Credit 1720-ZAM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paxe No.
Preface....                 ...... 
Evaluation Summary..  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   ii.
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FRoM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity . .. . . . . . . .
A.  Background, Scope, Objectives of the Credit  . . . . .
B.  Accomplishments of the Government Economic Reform
Program    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
C.   Implementation of the Reform Program   . . . . . . . .    8
D.  Credit Administration  . . . . . . . .     . . .  .       11
E.  Evaluation and Lessons of Experience . . . . . . . . .   14
F.   Sustainability of Reforms and the Remaining Policy
Agendat*eo..*                                 a o . 16
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Annexes
1.  Summary of Masures to be Taken    . . . . . . . . . .   20
2.  Conditionalities and Modalities for Implementation
and Execution of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
3.  Conditions for Release of the Second Tranche . . . . .   29
Tables
1.  Zambia's Foreign Exchange Auction   . . . . . . . . .   30
2.  Foreign Exchange Auction Allocation  . . . .   . . . a   33
ATTACHMENT:    Comments by Zambian Government (Ministry of Finance)
to  the  PCR  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  *  .  *  *  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRhE
(Credit 1720-LZA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Economic
Recovery Program in Zambia, for which Credit 1720-ZAK in the original amount
of SDR 42.6 million was approved on June 26, 1986. The Credit was suspended
on May 1, 1987, and so were IDA disbursements to Zambia, following the
country's failure to meet overdue debt service payments. The Credit was
reactivated after payment of arrears and suspension lifted. Second tranche
release was on February 27, 1991. The Credit was fully disbursed and closing
date was June 30, 1991, one year after the original estimate.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the Country Operations
Division of the Southern Africa Department. Part II (Review from Borrower's
Perspective) has not been received. Parts I and III were sent to the
Government with a request for their coments, which were received and is
reproduced as Attachment at the end of this report.
Preparation of this PCR began during a mission in February 1992 and
is based inter alia on the President's Report, the Development Credit
Agreement, internal IDA and Government documentation, and discussions with
some of the key participants during the implementation of the program.
This Project Completion Report was prepared by James Karuga (Consultant). The
Task Manager at the time of project appraisal and throughout Implementation
was George Gebhart. The managing Division Chief and Country Director are
Praful Pate (AF6CO) and Stephen Denning (AF6DR).






-iii-
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
(Credit 1720-2AM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
OBJECTIVES
The objective of the Credit was to support Zambia's policy and
institutional reforms during a critical period of its adjustment process by
providing foreign exchange necessary for the country's recovery and
diverstflication effort. Without sufficient foreign exchange many of the
Goverrm.nt's liberalization measures would have been ineffective and the
entire government's reform initiative jeopardized. Besid-e reforms aimed
at restoring macroeconomic stability (undertaken vith the support of the
IMF) structural measures in each of the productive sectors - mining,
industry, and agriculture were to be supported in order to ensure a
positive supply response. In addition, efforts to restructure the
extensive parastatal sector initiated under an earlier Industrial
Reorientation credit were to be deepened and extended. Key elemnts of the
reform program were the introduction of the foreign exchange auction system
as a transitional mechanism for achieving a market determined exchange
rate, and the initiation of the process of reducing (and ultimately
remOving) the high consumer subsidies in order to bring down the budget
deficit to manageable levels.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
The project got off to a good start, with the authorities
implementing some of the less controversial elements of the credit
pertaining largely to institutional reforms for more effective agricultural
marketing, restructuring of public expenditures, and public enterprise
reform. The project, however, foundered on the key issues of the foreign
exchange auction when the authorities sought to manipulate the rate of the
kwacha, thus effectively aborting the process of liberalizing the exchange
system. The auction was blamed for what was seen as an excessive
depreciation of the kwacha (K), falling from K 2 to the dollar at the
beginning of the auction in October 1985 to K 21 to the dollar at the end
of the auction in April 1987. On May 1, 1987, the Government formally
abandoned the reform program, and coincidentally, the Bank suspended
disbursements to Zambia as a result of failure to meet overdue debt service
payments which had gone beyond the 75 days limit.
After suspension of disbursements, the World Bank maintained a policy
dialogue with the authorities, albeit at a low key level, leading to the
revival of the adjustment effort in mid-1989 with the adoption of the first
PFP. Since then, many of the Government's interventionist policies have
been reversedt price controls have largely boen dismantled, the exchange



-iv-
system has been liberalized, with an open general licensing (OGL) system in
place covering nearly 90 percent of imports, and the Government has
embarked on a major privatization program. But because of the constant
reversals in policy and the continued weaknesses in program implementation
particularly in controlling the fiscal deficit and hence inflation, the
adjustment measures have not as yet elicited a sufficient supply response
to turn around the economy. The task of achieving macroeconomic stability
therefore still remains to be achieved, with the Government deficit at over
7 percent of GDP in 1991 and inflation still quite high at 118 percent at
the end of 1991.
RESULTS
The adjustment measures supported by the credit were not given time
to work through the economy before the Government abandoned the reform
effort in May 1987. The performance of the Zambian economy has been weak,
with GDP growth negative in 1989 and 1990. But since resumption of the
policy dialogue in mid-1989, many incremental changes have taken place in
public expenditure restructuring. There have been improvements in foreign
exchange management; trade liberalization and deregulation of the economy;
public enterprise reform; privatization and general economic management and
program implementation. The first multi-party elections in 17 years were
successfully completed last October and the Movement for Multi-Party
Democracy (MMD) party came into power. The new Government is committed to
the objectives and the process of reform supported by this credit.
SUSTAINABILITY
The sustainability of reforms in Zambia has to be seen in the context
of experience of reform under this credit, from partial acceptance and weak
political support for reform to recently demonstrated support for the goals
of the adjustment program. But the process remains essentially slow and
the results of the effort can only be evaluated over a longer time frame.
Continuity of the adjustment effort is threatened by the high expectations
of immediate benefits of reform, against the background of increasing signs
of adjustment fatigue. The high indebtedness of Zambia further exacerbates
its medium term economic prospects.
FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
The experience of the reform program supported by the Credit
demonstrates the need to:
(i)    ensure as widespread and committed political support for
reform measures as is possible in all strata of decision-makers
and the general public;
(ii)   evaluate and strengthen the technical capability of
implementing agencies before and during reform;
(iii) ensure satisfactory safeguards and safety nets before
implementing such measures as dismantling consumer subsidies



and price decontrols on the socially vulnerable groups;
(iv)  ~.asure adequate and timely financing of reforms in order to
assure continuous access to foreign exchange by the business
community, so as to maintain an even pace of reform;
(v)    maintain the pace and direction of reform, avoiding policy
reversals which send confusing signals to the economy;
(vi)   maintain consistent policy measures over a longer period in
order to assure an appropriate supply response from the real
economy.






ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
(Credit 1720-ZAM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW fOtf BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity:
Name:             Economic Recovery Program
Credit Number:    1720-ZAM
RVP Unit:         Africa
Sector:           None Specific
A. Background. Scope. Obiectives of the Credit
1.    After a period of relatively buoyant growth in the early years of
independence, (1964-1974), Zambia in 1975 experienced a sharp decline in
copper prices, the main export commodity and its terms of trade thereafter
deteriorated steadily, such that by 1984 they were 70 per cent below the
average for the early 19709. Real GDP had been declining on an yearly
average of 1.5 percent between 1975 and 1984. With a population growth of
3.1 percent per annum, real GDP per capita in 1984 was 25 percent lower
than in 1974. Furthermore, the balance of payments was in continuous
disequilibrium, reaching a deficit of 19 percent of GDP in 1980-82. These
trends were exacerbated by a rising level of external debt: at the end of
1985. Zambia's total debt stood at $5.0 billion, with a debt service ratio
of over 70 percent.
2.    Concerned about these developments, the Government of Zambia sought
to introduce economic reforms to stabilize and restructure the economy.
The main objectives of the reforms were to: (i) create a sound
macroeconomic policy environment conducive to mobilization of domestic
savings and the efficient allocation of resources; (ii) restructure
economic incentives and encourage productive investments to achieve
economic growth and diversification of the productive base; and (iii) move
the economy toward a sustainable external and internal balance. To support
these reforms, Zambia entered into an agreement with IDA on an Economic
Recovery Program (Credit 1720-ZA) on November 21, 1986, for an amount of
SDR 42.6 million (US$50 million equivalent).
3.    These reforms were also supported by an IMF Stand-by program in 1985
as vwll as by the Bank's ongoing economic and sector work. In particular,
the credit would complement other IDA operations operations, namely the
Industrial Reorientation Credit (Credit 1630-ZA) and the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 1545-ZA). The initial emphasis in this
adjustment process was on stabilization of the macroeconomic framework,



-2-
with the budget deficit targeted to docline from 24 percent of GDP in 1986
to seven percent in 1987, and to about five or six percent in the period
1988/89. The external imbalance was expected to be brought under control
through a market determined exchange rate supported by tight fiscal and
monetary policies and the increased support from the international donor
community. It was expected that the implementation of these reform
measures would result in an early and positive supply response, thus
halting the continued downward spiral of the economy. During the early
years, emphasis was to be on rehabilitation and reorientation of mineral
and industrial production and the rapid development of agriculture and non
traditional exports. Growth in GDP was expected to pick up from 1.5
percent in 1986 to 2.6 percent in 1987 and to 4 percent in 1990. The tight
demand management policies under the IMF Stand-by Program yore expected to
help bring down the rate of inflation from 50 percent in 1986 to 30 percent
in 1987. While rapid recovery of the economy was not anticipated, an
overall medium term growth rate of 2.8 percent per annum was projected (for
1986-90) while a further rate of growth of 4.5 percent between 1991-95 was
forecast.
4.    The credit sought to support and extend the Government's reform
measures by making available the foreign exchange needed to bring forth a
supply response from the real economy. It was recognized that without
sufficient foreign exchange to allow increased capacity utilization in
industry and agriculture, the reform program would not be fully effective,
and neither could the trade and exchange liberalization targets be
achieved. The measures to be supported by the credit were to be
concentrated in four main areas: (i) planning and budgeting, to bring about
sound fiscal adjustment; (ii) public expenditure rationalization, to
provide maxilmu support to the reform effort through more effective
targeting of expenditures; (iii) foreign exchange and debt management, to
make more effective use of the limited foreign exchange resources; and (iv)
the productive sectors, to extend the reform programs in critical areas.
Implementation of reform measures in these areas was to be comprehensive
and balanced in accordance with a schedule of actions agreed upon with the
Bank (See Annex 1).
B. Accomplishments of the Government Economic Reform Program
5.    Strenathenina of Budaet and Planning Processes:  During preparation
of the Credit, the Government had recognized that weak fiscal performance
continued to hamper the successful implementation of the Government's
previous reform efforts. The Government, in the Letter of Development
Policy, committed itself to take measures to strengthen fiscal management
at the Ministry of Finance. Actions to improve this process had been
initiated in 1985 with the introduction of a forward looking Annual Plan as
the basis for the preparation of the annual budget, but many of the changes
made were ad hoc and were as yet to be institutionalized. During credit
negotiations agreement Was reached on the guidelines to be issued in the
preparation of the 1987 budget. In addition, a Public Expenditure Review
(PER) was undertaken with the assistance of IDA between November 1986 and
February 1987. The main findings of the expenditure review with regard to



-3-
strengthening fiscal performance and improving the budgetary process
included:
(a)   Macroeconomic Obiectives:  The Government was to seek to
attain a recurrent budgetary surplus by 1990. This was to
be achieved through actions to (i) reduce consumer subsidies
according to an agreed schedule (except for subsidies
targeted to socially vulnerable groups); (ii) curb real
growth of recurrent expenditures over the following three
years, i.e. a zero rate of growth of real expenditures;
(iii) increased reliance on cost recovery and other non tax
revenues.
(b)   Sectoral ExDenditure Proaram:  In order to redirect the
scarce government resources to priority development
activities, the PER recommended that the Government should:
(i) designate a core group of activities, including
agricultural services, health, education, road maintenance
and development administration; (ii) prepare reform programs
in these core sectors to improve cost-effectiveness and
target resources to high priority activities; (iii) increase
the share of resources going to core activities; (iv) reduce
services in non-core activities to accammodate the
macroeconomic objectives.
(c) ComDosition of Expenditures: Over the medium term,
expenditure reform was to include: (i) increased salaries at
the upper and technical grades to redress the erosion of
salaries at these levels, in order to retain skilled
personnel in public service; (ii)redeployment of skilled
personnel to key sectors; (iii) reduction of temporary
workers (Contract Daily Employees, CDEs); (iv) increases in
recurrent operating expenses of ministries;reduction of
subsidies to individuals (e.g. secondary and higher
education fees); and (v)sharp cut-backs in domestically
financed capital projects.
6.      Finally, the Annual Plan was to become the primary instrument for
guiding public expenditures instead of the five-year plan framework.
7.      Since 1987, the Government has continued to implement many of
these recommendations, and a series of PERs have been undertaken with the
assistance of IDA, as part of sector and economic work activities, even
during the suspension of disbursements. As a result of these reforms, the
budgetary and planning processes in Zambia continue to be strengthened. The
identified core sectors - agriculture, roads, health and education have in
most cases received enhanced allocations of resources, while there has been
a general improvement in the composition of expenditure to reflect a better
balance between recurrent and capital expenditure programs. A series of
public expenditure reviews has been undertaken with the assistance of IDA
and the process of capital expenditure programming initiated. Government



4-
budgetary control has been strengthened.  Comitment registers have been
introduced while cash control and reporting systems have been improved.
Macroeconomic management at the Ministry of Finance has improved and
external resource mobilization has also been strengthened through donor
supported technical assistance. A program of public sector management
reform is also under way, with the aim of improving the match between
skills and tasks while reducing the size of the civil service. Actions in
this latter area are supported by the successor operation to the Recovery
Credit, Credit 2214-ZA of 1981, and the resources of the old TA II project.
Already, the exercise to identify 'ghost workers* has been completed; and
Government is committed to a comprehensive program of restructuring and
reducing the size of the public service.
8.      The study of the tax structure called for in the Credit was
completed with the assistance of the IMF in 1986; many of its
recommendations have been incorporated in subsequent budgets since 1987.
As a result of this study, revenue prospects have improved considerably,
while the structure of taxes in Zambia has been rationalized to reflect the
need to maintain incentives for investments and enhance general resource
mobilization.
9.      Tariff Study:  This study was undertaken with the assistance of
IDA in 1987. In line with the study's recommendations,the tariff structure
has been rationalized, the variance and degree of effective industrial
protection reduced and the maximum tariffs have been reduced, and the
number of tariffs categories effectively reduced to three. Many exemptions
(except those required by international law) have been eliminated, and the
administration of the system as a whole has improved. These reforms,
together with the subsequent relaxation of price control measures in 1989,
have led to significant improvement In the predictability and efficiency of
business transactions.
10.     Reormanisation of the Ministry of Agriculture:  Reforms to improve
the performance of the agricultural sector were also initiated in 1985
under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1545-ZA). One of the
primary recommendations of the study carried out under this program, was
the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture to strengthen its
planning and project implementation capacity. The implementation of this
recommendation was a principal condition of the Recovery Credit. Hardly any
progress had been made to implement the recommendation when the reform
program Was interrupted in May 1987.
11.     Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) Audits:  The continued
good performance of the main copper company, ZCCM, has remained central to
the prospects of the Zambian economy; the company contributes 90 percent of
export earnings. Yet the company's maintenance program and general
management have been less than satisfactory leading to concerns about the
medium- and long-term viability of the sector. A review of the mining
operations of the company, under terms of reference agreed with IDA, was
done with the assistance of consultants. The performance audit of the
company demonstrated the need to curtail capital expenditures and to



-5-
tighten financial controls as vell as improving the efficiency of
operations in ganeral. Implementation of these recommendations started in
January 1986 and including the closure of some of the uneconomic mines
(Chambishi mine, Konkola No.3, Kansenshi mine); the shutting down of
uneconomic operations (Nkana Oxide Concentrator, Luanshya Smelter);
reduction and restructuring of personnel at headquarters and at the mines.
A now compensation policy recommended by the consultants vas also
implemented beginning in 1986. A firm of auditors has continued to do mid-
year reviews and audits of performance as condition of the Credit. The
viability of ZCC  remains a major concern to the Government and the IA,
and a follow-on operation, the Mining Technical Assistance Project (Credit
2269-ZA) was signed in July 1991.
12.     External Debt Manatement:  Weaknaseas in foreign exchange
management at the Bank of Zambia had been identified as an area of major
concern during implementation of the adjustment program. Of equal concern
to the authorities was the capacity of Zambia to manage its external debt
in view of the country's high degree of indebtedness. In 1985 Zambia's
external debt vas one of the highest in Africal today it is the highest on
a per capita basis. While the Government had taken steps to improve the
recording of debt data, there had been little progress in designing a long-
term strategy to deal vith the debt issue and to structure the Government's
borrowing to minimize costs. Policies for improved debt management,
including the debt of parastatals, were therefore crucial to the success of
the whole adjustmant strategy.
13.     Under the Credit, Zambia availed itself of technical assistance
for debt management and as a result an improved system is now in
place at the Bank of Zambia (BOZ). BOZ has also benefitted from technical
assistance provided by the IM and bilateral donors (the Swedish supported
computerisation of bank operations, and the ODA- supported system for
improved procurement and commodity aid use program).
14.     Maize and Consumer Subsidies:  The removal of maize and meal
consumer subsidies was one of the key elements of the reform program
supported by the Credit. Over a long period in Zambia, these subsidies had
been the Government's responsibility. But while the Government could
afford such subsidies during the early years of independence, when copper
prices were good and the urban population still small, funding of consumer
subsidies came to represent a major drain on the budget by the early
1980's; maize meal subsidies amounted to 4.4 per cent of GDP by 1986.
Clearly, this level of subsidies was inconsistent with the goal of fiscal
stabilization.
15.     During negotiation of the Credit, the Government agraed to keep
the aggregate level of maize subsidies to amounts consistent with the
fiscal targets previously agreed vith the IMF and the IDA. As a start,
maize subsidies used for the production of animal feed and opaque beer
(chibuku) were to bo eliminated, while the remaining consumer subsidies in
1987 were not to axceed in nominal terms the levels appropriated in 1986.
A study on the targeting of maize subsidies to benefit the poor was to be



completed no later than March 1987. These actions yore successfully
implemented before the suspension of the Credit in May 1987. But because
of the suspension of operations at that time, no plan for removal of
subsidies was presented to IDA as required in the Credit. Since the
resumption of the reform effort in September 1989, reductions in maize
subsidies continued, and although they increased sharply in the run-up to
the elections last year they have been reduced sharply in 1992. Under the
follow-on adjustment operation, the second Economic Recovery Program
(Credit 2214-ZA) the Government is expected to eliminate all maize consumer
subsidies by 1993.
16.     Other measures to improve the efficiency of maize marketing were
taken during the implementation of the Credit. These included the
elimination of the National Marketing Board (IAWBOARD) monopoly in maize
marketing, and a study on improvements in the efficiency of maize marketing
and fertilizer distribution. Finally, the Government strengthened the
system of delivery of agricultural credit by merging the two agricultural
credit institutions, the Agricultural Finance Corporation, and the Zambia
Agricultural Development Bank to form the LIMA Bank, which is now the main
agricultural credit institution.
17.     Public Enterprise Restructurina and Parastatal Reform:  A major
thrust of the Government's adjustment program was the reform of the public
sector. A comprehensive set of measures to reform individual enterprises
had been initiated in 1985 under the Industrial Reorientation Credit. By
setting out broad policy directives those measures aimed primarily at
reducing the budgetary and external debt burden of the large parastatal
sector. Many parastatals had in 1985 large foreign debts, at the same time
relying excessively on subsidies from the Government and the main holding
company, Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO). Between 1985
and 1989, direct and indirect subsidies to parastatals amounted to US$405
million, compared to US$22 million of paid dividends. Under the Credit
subsidies were to be eliminated, and debt to the Government repaid. One of
the conditions for second tranche release was the resolution of the large
parastatal debt to the Government. The Government was expected to submit
to IDA a plan outlining the circumstances under which it would absorb
parastatal debt. The program of individually restructuring various
parastatals initiated under the Industrial Reorientation Credit would
continue; thirteen companies, in addition to the eighteen selected under
the Industrial Credit, would be restructured with IDA assistance.
18.     As a result of these and other reforms, especially the increased
managerial autonomy and price decontrol, the financial performance of the
Industrial Development Corporation (INDECO) improved. The number of
companies making losses was reduced from ten to five, and the group profit
before tax increased from K 33 million in 1984/85 to K 130 million in
1986/87. The group return on capital employed similarly increased from 15
to 22 percent. At the same time, the Government converted the parastatal
debt into equity and imposed a mandatory dividend policy on all parastatals
in 1987. In addition, all direct subsidies to the parastatals were
withdrawn, and parastatals required to operate on comercial principles.



-7-
Several enterprises which were found to be economically unviable were also
closed down. These included the Zambia-Tanzania Road Service Corporation
(road haulage) and Zambia Clay Industries Ltd. This exercise of
restructuring the parastatal sector was to be continued under the first and
second recovery credits. Another fifteen enterprises will be reviewed and
restructured in readiness for privatization, while the relationship between
the main industrial holding company, ZIMCO, and its subsidiaries is being
reviewed by consultants financed by the second Recovery Credit. In May
1990 the Government announced a major program of privatization of the state
enterprises during which all but a few strategic enterprises (mainly public
utilities) would be sold off to domestic and foreign investors. It is
expected that this program will be further supported by an IDA credit, the
proposed Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit.
19.      Foreign Exchange Management:  Underpinning the entire
Government's adjustment effort was the continuation of the foreign exchange
auction system which had been introduced by the Government in October 1985
through the Industrial Reorientation Credit, as a transitional mechanism
for arriving at a market-determined exchange rate. The special conditions
for operating the foreign exchange auction are described in Schedule 5 of
the Economic Recovery Credit Agreement (see Annex 3). Ultimately, the
operation of the foreign exchange auction came to symbolize the entire
reform process both to the business and the international donor
communities. Its successful implementation (or otherwise as was to prove
the case) would ultimately determine the success or failure of the program.
In the event, the perceived failure of the foreign exchange auction system
led to the unravelling of the entire reform program supported by the
Credit. The operation and causes for failure of the auction system are
described separately in paragraphs 23-30 below.
20.      But notwithstanding the Government's decision to abandon the
auction system, commendable progress has been made in the system of foreign
exchange allocation at the Bank of Zambia, subsequent to the resumption of
policy dialogue in September 1989, and after the endorsement of the first
Policy Framework Paper (PFP). A dual exchange rate system was introduced
in February 1990, consisting of an "official" (window 1) rate set at K 22
to the dollar, and a market related rate (window 2) at K 40. Government
transactions were initially handled through the official window, but by the
end of 1990, nearly 80 percent of all non-government imports (except oil
and fertilizer) had been brought under the OGL system (window 2). At
present, the OGL system comprises more than 90 percent of base period
imports, excluding petroleum. The Government also abolished the Foreign
Exchange Management and Allocation Committee (FEMAC), *and the exchange
rates were finally merged in April 1991. The exchange rate has been
progressively devalued on a weekly basis to keep up with inflation and was
further devalued by 30 percent in early February 1992. The authorities are
committed to attaining a market clearing rate by end 1992.
21.      Technical Assistance and Training:  As shown in Annex I (the
policy matrix) the Credit would finance technical assistance and training
activities at the Bank of Zambia, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of



Agriculture and the ZCCM. to improve foreign exchange management; external
debt management; the targeting of maize subsidies, and review and audit of
ZCCM's 5-year production plan, respectively. Although there was some
slippage in the timing of some of the studies, all the technical assistance
and training activities vere undertaken successfully. Work on the
improvement of management of foreign exchange at the Bank of Zambia vas
particularly critical the liberalization of the exchang- system; the
eventual abolition of the Foreign Exchange Allocation and Management
Comittee is testimony to the success of this component of the Credit.
Improvements in data systems and the managerial organization are still
going on at the Bank of Zambia with the assistance of the IF and other
donors. Finally, the program implementation process continues to benefit
from the resources provided under the Second Technical Assistance (IDA
Credit 1679-ZA).
C. Implementation of the Reform Proaram
22.      IDA had played an important role in the design and implementation
of the reform program in Zambia, since identification, preparation and
appraisal of the Credit in March 1986. Credit negotiations were completed
in May 1986, and the Credit, signed on November 21, 1986, became effective
on December 22, 1986. The detailed design of the components of the reform
program emerged from discussion with Goverment officials as well as the
collaboration with the IMF. The policy dialogue with the Government was
generally satisfactory, although there were a number of senior Government
officials in key positions who were opposed to the reform program. Soon
after the Credit became effective, there was a reshuffle of senior
government officials. Most of the officials supporting the reform program
were reassigned, leaving the task of implementing the program passed to
officials who were originally opposed to the main thrust of the reform
program. This, more than anything else, led to the eventual unravelling of
the reform program, symbolised by the abandonment of the foreign exchange
auction and the reversal of many of the liberalization measures on May 1,
1987. At the same time, IDA suspended disbursements to Zambia after its
failure to meet overdue service payments. IDA staff continued to supervise
the credit and carried on normal economic and sector work.
23.      The Foreign Exchange Auction System:  The auction of foreign
exchange introduced in October 1985 under the Industrial Reorientation
Credit was in many ways the centerpiece of the Government's reform program.
The auction, which was held weekly had gained the confidence of the
international and business communities, came to symbolize the Government's
determination to move from administrative controls in the allocation of
foreign exchange, to a market determined rate. The Government, however,
still retained administrative allocation of foreign exchange to the mining
industry, its own foreign exchange expenditures, and debt-service payments.
Under the Credit, the Government would expand the scope of the foreign
exchange system to include these transactions. Together with the auction,
the system of import licensing was to be liberalized, licenses for
successful bidders would be issued automatically, and import restrictions
would be correspondingly reduced and ultimately eliminated through the



-9-
gradual introduction of an OGL system. A study on how to broaden the
auction system would be undertaken by end-September 1986, and implemented
by March 1987.
24.      The immediate effect of the auction was a substantial devaluation
of the kwacha versus foreign currencies. As of end-March 1986, the auction
rate was approximately K 6.9 per US$, as compared to a rate of K 2.2 per
dollar imediately prior to the auction in October 1985. The devaluation
led to large price increases on a wide range of domestic goods, including
petroleum products (100-150 percent), bus fares (70 percent), trucking
services (80-95 percent), rail services (passenger, 33 percent; freight,
75 percent), bread (100 percent), sugar (49 percent) and beer (70 percent).
Prices of international air tickets, telephone calls, telex charges, and
first class hotel rooms were also denominated in US dollars, and the
Government made it clear that parastatal companies were expected to adjust
their prices to avoid operating losses. While price changes were clearly
unpopular with consumers, businessmen generally expressed satisfaction with
the auction in terms of its impartiality and more flexible access to
foreign exchange. Production costs were reduced through more careful use
of foreign exchange, i.e., more precise estimation of import requirements
and lower stocks of imported goods. In addition, some importers reported
substantial discounts in foreign price quotations for purchases financed
with cash through the auction rather than by suppliers' credits.
25.      In order to maintain a reasonably stable exchange rate and
develop confidence that foreign exchange would be available when required,
it was absolutely critical that the auction was adequately funded. It was
estimated that a minimum weekly average of US$9 million was required for
the import requirements of items covered by the auction. Given the
depressed level of receipts from copper exports and the high debt-service
payments that had to be made, the Government was unable to meet its other
obligations and sustain this allocation of foreign exchange without
substantial foreign assistance. Several donors were to make funds
available through the auction for industrial and agricultural imports. As
Table 1 indicates, the auction worked reasonably well during the first six
months of its operation, between October 1985 and April 1986: against a bid
of US$201 million, US$135 million was sold through the auction. The
authorities during this period managed the auction prudently to ensure a
"stable" exchange rate. During this period, the exchange rate fell from
K 2.23 to K 7 to the dollar, and close to the parallel market rate. The
availability of foreign exchange to many firms, both private and public.
and the general relaxation in price controls, led to an initial spurt of
increases in manufacturing output with a real growth in output of 8 percent
in 1986. There were also significant increases in capacity utilization in
many sectors, but the underlying uncertainties about the auction and the
continued shortages of foreign exchange during the second phase of the
auction system meant that the impact of these liberalization measures was
short-lived.
26.      The second, and more turbulent, phase of the auction covers the
period April 1986 to May 1, 1987. In April 1986, the leaders of the



-10-
economic reform team were replaced by persons who were generally opposed to
the reform program. At the same time the Government carried out an
internal review of allegations of abuse and problems with the auction which
showed widespread dissatisfaction with how the mechanism was working. IDA
staff reviewed the auction's workings and concluded that the allegations
were not supported by evidence. Contrary to public opinion, analysis of
data from BOZ indicates that the auction did not finance luxury consumer
imports. Only 6 percent of the auction proceeds (see Table 2) were used to
finance consumer imports, mainly pharmaceuticals and paper products, which
could hardly be called luxuries. Expenditures on passenger cars accounted
for only 1.5 percent of the total auction imports.
27.       During the second phase of the auction the authorities seemed to
have been concerned more with achieving a 'realistic" exchange rate as
opposed to maintaining stability of the [wacha and the auction system in
general. The authorities were concerned about the continued deterioration
of the Kwacha and in an effort to stem the downward drift introduced
several procedural changes and administrative requirements. Inter alia,
bidders were asked to produce income tax clearances and evidence of payment
of other taxes and use of previous allocations. At one point, bids higher
than K 8.07 were rejected. Bidders' names and bids were published in
newspapers, implying that the higher bids were unpatriotic. On August 2,
1986, the auction went "Dutch" i.e. the bidders were asked to pay at the
r. te they bid rather than at the marginal rate that would exhaust the
supply of foreign exchange at the auction. At the same time, the supply of
foreign exchange was drastically curtailed by a sharp decline in receipts
from copper, caused by falling international prices, and by some modest
shortfalls in promised donor aid. Faced with the prospect of continued
depreciation of the Kwacha, the Government started "overbooking", i.e.
offering more foreign exchange than was available. These interventions
destroyed confidence in the exchange rate and the auction. Business leaders
surmised that the country was running out of foreign exchange and that the
auction would eventually be suspended. They increased both the amount and
price of their bids to assure themselves of access to foreign exchange,
while the auction lasted. Despite quick injections of foreign exchange by
some donors in an effort to preserve the auction, the Kwacha continued to
depreciate. From the end of October 1986 to January 24, 1987, the rate
climbed from K 10.32 to K 14.92 to the dollar. On the latter date, the
auction was suspended and the exchange rate was fixed at K 8 to the dollar.
It reopened on March 20, 1987, at K 15 to the dollar and finally closed on
May 1, 1987, the final rate being K 21.
28.      Abandonment of the Reform Program:  On May 1, 1987, the
Government formally abandoned the reform program. In particular, the
foreign exchange auction was discontinued and an administrative allocation
mechanism was reinstituted; the exchange rate was set at an overvalued
level of K8 to a dollar; tight import controls were put into place with
free access to export retention denied; duty rates for many items were
raised and widespread duty exemptions were allowed; prices of many products
were controlled while underlying inflation was high; and interest rates
which were already negative were reduced substantially. In addition, with



-11-
the loss of monetary and fiscal control, the Government embarked on an
expansionary fiscal program, with budget deficits of nearly 35 percent of
GDP in 1986 and the doubling of money supply between 1985 and 1986. As a
result inflationary pressures were intensified, thus putting further
pressures on the exchange rate.
29.      The one incident which appears to have contributed most to the
erosion of political commitment was the eruption of riots in the copperbelt
in early December 1986. The riots were precipitated by the end of the
subsidy on breakfast meal in November 1986 and the mismanagement of subsidy
payments on roller meal which led to the disappearance of the lower priced
roller meal from the market. The reduction in subsidy was required to
control an expanding budget deficit. Earlier in the year, IDA and the IMF
had recommended moderate subsidy reduction, among other measures, as a
means of controlling the budget deficit. But political concerns about
increasing maize meal prices delayed the action by several months. This
had the unfortunate effect of requiring a much higher meal price increase
later in the year to meet budgetary needs and still leaving too high a
budget deficit during most of the year. The meal price increase and
related problems led to riots and the large budget deficit to increased
money supply. The latter, combined with an unchecked credit expansion to
the non-government sector, created serious inflation and downward pressure
on the exchange rate. When people saw the cost of living rise at the same
time as the cost of foreign exchange they concluded that the deterioration
of the exchange rate was responsible for the increase in the cost of
living. In fact, the deterioration of the exchange rate and the increase
in the cost of living were both caused by an increase in the budget deficit
and the money supply.
30.      The other reasons for failure in the implementation of reforms
were (i) the absence of a broad-based political support for the program;
(ii) the significant changes required in long-established decision making
patterns and power relations within the bureaucracy, and (iii) the reaction
of the groups whose economic rents were substantially reduced.
D. Credit Administration
31.      The Credit (about $50 million equivalent) comprised three
components, namely (i) import support of approximately US$48.8 million;
(ii) technical assistance of about $1.0 million; and (iii) training
services for about US$200,000. The funds to be made available under the
import support component were to be sold to importers through the foreign
exchange auction managed by the Bank of Zambia. The technical assistance
funds would finance mining audits for the main copper company, ZCCM;
improvements in external debt management in the Ministry of Finance;
studies on the targeting of maize subsidies on the socially needy groups;
while the funds for training would be made available on a grant basis to
the Bank of Zambia and the Ministry of Agriculture for general training
purposed. The Kwacha counterpart funds generated from the sale of the
credit proceeds would be made available to the Government of Zambia for
general budgetary support.



-12-
32.      Procurement and Disbursement:  Procurement procedures for the
credit were designed to ensure rapid disburement of the credit proceed.
while preserving efficiency, accountability and transparency. Under
conditions for procurement purchases and contracts above or in the amount
of US$2 million would use international competitive bidding procedures.
The credit financed the foreign exchange costs of general imports, other
than those negative list, as specified in the Credit Agreement. In
accordance with the requirements of Schedule 6 of the Credit Agreement, a
Special Import Account was established at the Bank of Zambia, and
withdrawals and replenishments made to finance the import of goods and
services as provided for in the Credit Agreement. A special training and
technical assistance account was similarly opened and successfully
administered at the Bank of Zambia.
33.      After the first tranche had been disbursed in March 1987,
disbursement of the second tranche was delayed as a result of the
suspension of operations in May 1987. However, after the resumption of the
policy dialogue in September 1989, disbursement of the second tranche
became conditional upon the clearance of Bank arrears and the policy
performance, stipulated in the conditionality of the Credit. In order to
clear the arrears, an extraordinary effort was made by the Government of
Zambia, the Bank, the IMF and the donors. A series of Consultative Group
Meetings were held in 1990 and early 1991, culminating in the successful
execution of the bridge loan operation on March 13, 1991, when the arrears
to the Bank, amounting to US$323 million were cleared with the assistance
of a bridge loan from the Bank of England for an amount of US$200 million.
34.      As soon as the arrears were cleared, it became possible to
release the remaining balance of the credit proceeds, amounting to
approximately US$30 million, as part of the second tranche of the Credit.
Again, to facilitate this operation, extraordinary arrangements had been
approved by the Board such that the proceeds of this second tranche could
finance goods and services on a highly retroactive basis, with the cut-off
date of September 1989, when Zambia's PFP was formally approved by the
Co mittee of the Whole. Consequently, claims for an amount of US$30
million were accepted by IDA to permit disbursement of the second tranche.
A high-level IDA procurement mission went to the U.K. to examine claims
submitted in support of ZCCM purchases, and the mission was satisfied with
its findings. Similarly, IDA staff were satisfied with the SOEs submitted
by ZIMOIL (the state oil company) for oil purchases.
35.      Because of the suspension of operations, the credit did not close
on June 30, 1990 as envisaged, but a year later. The local currency
generated by the credit was made available to the Government of Zambia for
use to supplement the budget without restrictions.
36.      Audits and Accounts:  The financial covenants provided that the
audit reports and accounts would be produced within six months of the end
of each fiscal year of Zambia. Although disbursements had been suspended,
IDA continued to supervise the implementation of the Credit, and the first
audit reports, relating to the first tranche release, were due by end



-13-
June 1988. The Bank of Zambia did not provide acceptable audit reports for
the first tranche until late 1989. This delay reflected the continuing
weaknesses in data processing at the BOZ and problems of coordination
between the BOZ, the Ministry of Finance and the Loans and Investment
Department of the NCDP vhich was responsible for countersigning the claims
for reimbursement from IDA. In preparation for the release of the second
tranche, several IDA disbursement missions were sent to Zambia to assist in
the preparation of the bridge-loan and clearance of arrears operation.
Because some of the background documentation for the proceeds of the first
trenche were missing at the Bank of Zambia, work on auditing the credit had
to be partially completed at World Bank Headquarters, by the firm of
auditors hired by BOZ, and staff from IDA Africa Loan Department.
37.      Conditionalitvy and Tranchina:  As noted above, the credit was
disbursed in two tranches, the first was made available in March 1987, five
months after signing and four months after effectiveness. In the light of
the review of the adjustment performance of Zambia on March 5, 1991 by the
Board, it was decided to waive two of the five second tranche conditions,
namely, condition 2, requiring the Government to broaden the scope of the
foreign exchange to include government transactions and condition 4, the
essence of which was the elimination of maize subsidies, which remains yet
to be achieved. Implementation of these conditions was not attained
because (i) the auction system was abandoned in May 1987 when the
Government reversed the adjustment program as explained in paras 23 - 29
above; (ii) removing subsidies required a functioning safety net which was
not yet in place in 1987; and (iii) it was found that the process of
dismantling consumer subsidies would require longer than anticipated in the
original program.
38.       Coordination with the IMF and Bilateral Donors:  The measures
supported under the Credit were part of an overall stabilization and
adjustment program supported by the IMF as well. Indeed, the IMF has been
deeply involved in the process of resuming the policy dialogue with Zambia.
The PFP process has been the main vehicle through which collaboration and
coordination with the IMF has been maintained. To date, two PFPs on the
Zambia adjustment program have been issued with IMF support. Furthermore,
a Fund Rights Accumulation Program was approved by the IMF Executive
Directors in March 1991.
39.       Coordination and collaboration with donors have been a
distinguishing feature of the Zambia program. Indeed, the whole program of
clearance of arrears and external support to the adjustment process would
not have been possible without the extraordinary efforts made by the donor
community, individually and collectively, during Consultative Group (CG)
meetings to mobilize financial support for Zambia. Such a concerted effort
on the part of the international community demonstrated goodwill towards
Zambia; perhaps even more significantly, it underscored the importance
attached to adequate financing in support of adjustment by IDA and the
donor community. From an operational perspective, it also demonstrated the
improvements in donor cordination machinery and processes in Lusaka. In
order to help in the process of adjustment the World Bank Resident Mission



-14-
now has one Senior Operations Officer from Headquarters and two local
higher level staff.
e. Evaluation and Lessons of Experience
40.       The circumstances of the rupture of relations between the Bank
and Zambia in May 1987 were particularly unfortunate, the food riots, and
the subsequent political posturing and the attack on the Bank supported
adjustment program tended to cloud the issues surrounding the failure of
this reform episode. Indeed, it was to the credit of the Government and
IDA staff involved in the program that relations were maintained for normal
economic sector work to continue, and ultimately the policy dialogue to be
picked up again in late 1988. In retrospect, it can be said that Zambia,
like many African countries undergoing adjustment at that particular time
(early to mid 1980's) did not fully embrace or accept the free market
principles which were the driving force of the entire adjustment process.
Zambia's own philosophy of Humanism, with its emphasis on socialist
principles and an explicit anti-capitalist stance, based on populist
principles, was the very antithesis of the thrust of the adjustment effort.
It was therefore inevitable that political economy considerations would
figure prominently in the implementation of the program.
41.       First, although the program was discussed with a group of Zambian
technical officials who shared the goals of the adjustment program, the
implementation of the program was, after an initial period, entrusted to
the group of technocrats who had been most opposed to the thrust of the
reforms. This, perhaps more than anything else, undermined the
implementation of the reforms. Wider canvassing of political support for
the program before effectiveness might also have helped in mobilizing
public and political opinion in favour of the reforms. Because the reforms
lacked visible support amongst the ruling party, other than the President,
the program was seen as an imposition from outside. Yet without full
ownership of the program by the Zambian decision makers and ruling elite,
it was impossible to push through and sustain such fundamental changes as
price decontrol and market determination of the exchange rate, which
removed the economic rents associated with a command economy, not to
mention the extremely politically sensitive issue of the removal of
consumer subsidies.
42.       Second, the reforms required a fair degree of technical expertise
in implementing some of the elements of the program. Certainly, the design
of the auction system at the Bank of Zambia would have benefitted from more
technical analysis prior to implementation. With hind sight, other options
to achieve a market determined exchange rate other than the auction could
have been considered. A large initial devaluation (of the order of at
least 50:) followed by discrete periodic adjustments of the exchange rate
might have given the authorities more sense of "control" of the
determination of the rate, in contrast to the auction which seemed to take
away all their powers to influence the economy at the stroke of a pen. In
the context of Zambia, where Bank staff admitted that many of the policy
makers were opposed to the reform program, the introduction of the auction



-15-
was a radical if not a revolutionary step. The implementation of other
elements of the program, particularly the macro stabilization program also
suffered from lack of basic instruments for more effective control of
public spending, particularly at the district level. Government accounting
systems suffered from lack of qualified personnel and basic systems to
ensure a reliable and timely flow of data on fiscal performance. Tax
administration wva equally weak, and as already admitted, the capacity for
debt management vas lacking. All these shortcomings the credit recognised;
but the administrative burden eventually proved too much for the credit to
attain its goals within the indicated time frame. Recognition of the weak
implementation capacity of the Government of Zambia would have argued for
either a less complex adjustment program, or an adjustment process extended
over a longer period. In the event, the stabilization program went out of
gear, and the structural reforms were hardly given the time to work through
the economy.
43.       Third, the process of dismantling consumer subsidies should have
been preceded by the design and setting in place of a safety net to cushion
the more vulnerable groups from the adverse short term effects of the
adjustment process. A maize coupon system was put in place in 1987, but by
then the damage of the food riots of December 1986 had already been done,
and any actions the authorities took thereafter were seen as too little too
late. Eventually, though, a social action program to alleviate the
unemployment efforts of the program was put in place in 1990 with the
assistance of IDA and the donors; but even this program has suffered from
poor implementation capacity.
44.       Fourth, adequate and timely financing of the program were
extremely critical to the success of the reform program. For a country
such as Zambia which was experiencing acute debt distress and deteriorating
terms of trade for much of the 1980's, availability of foreign exchange
resources to finance the required imports, particularly under the more
liberalized import and trade regime, was absolutely crucial for the
sustainability of the program. As it were, the inadequate flow of donor
resources to the auction frustrated the timing of the reform measures: the
Government could not move in key areas, especially exchange liberalization,
without assurance of timely and long term external resource flows. Every
time performance slipped, donor funds would be delayed which would in turn
delay government actions and thus give wrong signals to the business
community about the continuity of reforms. This in turn would worsen
expectations of continued macro instability. Indeed, inflation in Zambia
is still well above the levels it was in 1987 at the comencement of the
adjustment process - 118 per cent in 1991 compared to 34 per cent in 1987.
45.       Fifth, a strong supply response to changed incentives as
introduced in the Zambia adjustment program requires that the direction of
reform is maintained, without too many reversals in policy as occurred
during the implementation of the Zambia's own economic recovery program in
1987/88 which replaced the IDA supported program after suspension of
operations in May 1987. These policies, entailing the reintroduction of
price controls and a fixed overvalued exchange rate, were expected to



-16-
revive production. Instead, they drove economic activities und-rground.
Smuggling and shortages of essential commodities became rmp*ant, in
Novembeer 19888 the Government wva forced to change direction by
introducing more liberal measures in the form of price decontrols and
devaluation of the Kwacha in June 1989. The impressive economic growth
registered in 1988 - 6.3 percent compared to 2.7 percent the previous year,
was largely fortuitous, arising primarily from the favorable weather which
raised agricultural output by over 20 percent. Because of the uneven
implementation of the reform program in Zambia, economic performance has
been faltering - registering -1 percent growth in 1989, -0.5 percent in
1990, and an estimate of -1.8 percent in 1991. The growth rate of total
per capita consumption ha therefore been negative for such of the
adjustment period, at -8.5 percent in 1988. -10.1 percent in 1989,
-3 percent in 1990 and an estimated -2.8 per cent in 1991. After such
poor performance, it was perhaps inevitable that adjustment fatigue would
set in.
46.       Sixth, it is now recognized that the adjustment process is a
long-haul operation, requiring a sustained implementation effort, adequate
external support and strong institutional and political support. For
Zambia, the political climate is now supportive of economic reform, and it
is to be hoped that the next adjustment operations will meet with more
resolute support.
F. Sustainability of Reforms and the Remainina Policy Atenda
47.       Zambia's adjustment effort has been characterised by an unusual
degree of risk, largely as a result of the highly politicized atmosphere at
the beginning of the program and the continuing financial uncertainties
underlying the program and the extreme indebtedness of the country. But
there is hope that with the nev government, the reform effort will be
maintained. The new political leadership has reiterated its total
commitment not only to the goals of the adjustment program, but perhaps
even more fundamentally, the leadership publicly espouses the principles of
a free market economy, in contrast to the previous regime.
48.      But if this new regime is comitted to the continuation of the
adjustment process, the austainability of the program of reform in Zambia
faces the opposite risks of too high expectations from the process of
reform under the new Government. Continued slow economic performance in
the short-term risks eroding the political support for reform. This, the
Government recognizes, and continues to respond to through the Social
Action Program. But even this program cannot deal with all of the
problems. Several other elements of r-form pose threats to the political
support for the adjustment program. These include (i) the Government's
privatization and parastatal reform program; and (ii) the program of civil
service reform. Implementation of these two elements of. reform are
increasingly aeen in critical terms, vith the former being accused of
selling the family silver, while the latter calls for reductions in the
size of the public service in a context of economic recession.
Arrangements must be put in place to ease the transition for the affected



-17-
staff, while masures to ensure Zambian participation in the privatization
process must be an integral part of the proposed Privatization and
Industrial Reform Credit.
49.      Continued high inflation (still at over 100 per cent in January
1992) further threatens the implementation of the program. Without
reasonable macro-economic stability, the economy is unlikely to benefit
from the positiva incentives arising from the Government's more liberalized
echange and pricing policies. In attaining this goal, tight fiscal and
monetary discipline will be essential. Hopefully, the new government will
attain this goal faster than its predecessor, given its more professional
approach to economic manag em nt and the support of donors through financial
resources and technical assistance.
50.       In the medium term, the high indebtedness of Zambia will also
continue to pose serious risks to the sustainability of the adjustment
process. At $7.2 billion. Zambia's debt is already the highest in the
world on a per capita basis. Although Zambia continues to enjoy bilateral
debt relief through the Paris Club, much of Zambia's debt is owed to
multilaterals, :ith little scope for unilateral write-off arrangements.
Access to IDA resources will continue to be conditional on satisfactory
adjustmant performance, as will 1KF support within the Rights Accumulation
progrm.
51.      Adequate performance will also depend on continued efforts to
strengthen the institutional capacity for program implementation in Zambia.
This will call for increased technical assistance to key economic decision
making units, as well as a more extensive manpower training program at the
middle management level. Although the follow-on adjustment operation, the
Second Recovery Credit approved in March 1991 has made provisions for a
large element of technical assistance, general training needs in Government
need to be addressed more comprehensively.
52.       On the policy front, further progress still remains to be
achieved in (a) the achievement of a market-clearing exchange rate as soon
as possible; (b) the attainment of positive real interest rates, if
possible by end 1992; (c) the reduction of the budget deficit to about 1
per cent GDP as soon as possible which should reduce inflation to levels
consistent with the above macro economic objectives.
53.       In addition to these macroeconomic stabilization goals, actions
need to be pursued in (a) the further liberalization and total price
decontrol of maize and fertilizer marketing; (b) the further streamlining
of the trade regime to reduce the anti-export bias, and to provide more
incentives to non-traditional exports; (c) the expansion and support to the
private sector through reform of the regulatory framework (particularly
urgent is the program of measures to support small scale enterprises); (d)
the further restructuring of the public service through parastatal reform
and the continuation of the public sector management program to strengthen
the civil service for more effective program implementation.



-18-
54.       These actions are the focus of amongst others, the follow-up
adjustment operations in the fonr of the new Economic Recovery Credit of
March 19911 the proposed Privatization and Parastatal Reform Program to be
presented to the Board during FY93; and the continuing Public Sector
Manage ent program supported by resources from the Second Technical
Assistance Credit.



-19-
PART III - Statistical Data Summary
ZAMBIA: ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Economic Recovery Program (Credit 1720-ZAM)
As of:       30-Jun-91
Amounts in SDR Million ---> Original      Actual     Disbursed    Cancelled       Repaid     Outstanding
IDA Credit 1720-ZA              42.6         42.6         42.6          0.0                       42.6
Original Credit Date                     Actual or Re-estimated
Initiating Memorandum                   31-Mar-86                              31-Mar-86
Letter of Development PoLicy            23-Apr-86                               23-Apr-86
...............                     - - - - -
Negotiations                            19-May-86                               19-May-86
Board Approval                          26-Jun-86                               26-Jun-86
Credit Agreement                        30-Jun-86                               21-Nov-86
Effectiveness                           30-Jun-86                               22-Dec-86
..   ...........                       -----
Second Tranche Release                  01-May-87                               27-Feb-91
Credit Closing                          30-Jun-90                               30-Jun-91
ACTUAL CUMJLATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
(SDR MiLLion)
FY87         FY88         FY89         FY90         FY91
20.8         20.8         20.8         20.8         42.6
X of total                                   48.8X        48.8X        48.8X         48.8X       100.0X
MISSION DATES
No. of       No. of       Staff       Date of
Month/Year     Weeks       Persons       Weeks        Report
Preparation                                                    NO RECORDS AVAILABLE
Appraisal                                                      NO RECORDS AVAILABLE
Supervision                                Nov-86            1             I            1   09-Jan-87
~~~~~~~~...........  ----------. ... . --- -- --  --- -- --  ----------
Supervision                                Jan-89            1             1            1    19-Apr-89
..........   ..........   ----------..... -- -- ---....- --
Completion                                 Feb-92            2             1            2    21-Apr-92 (Draft)
-- - - -    -- - -- -    ----------   ..........    --------..
FOLLOW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
1.  Second Economic Recovery (Credit 2214-ZA), for an mount of SDR 149.9 million, and an IDA Reflows
Supplementary Credit of SDR 19.4 million, signed on March 13, 1991.
2. Privatization and Industrial Reform Project. Expected Board approval on June, 23, 1992.



A,nnx I
Page I1of7
ZAMBIA RECOVERY CREDIT
SUMMARY OF MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
MEASURES TAKEN BEFORE             MEASURES TO BE SUPPORTED
OBJECTIVE                               EFFECTIVENESS                 BY THE CREDIT AND TIMING
1. To restructure public      i) Public expenditure review          i) Agreement with the
sector spending to             underway with assistance from         Association by Sept. 30, 1 66
support more                  the Bank.                              on an action program for
effectively the                                                     restructuring public
country's goals             Ii) Government agreenent to              expenditures, indudng
within overall                 Increase In real terms                spedfic timetable for
availabIlIties.                alocations for recurrent             for impleentg
expenditures, In                     reatuct . Agreement
agriculture.                          also on the  1c u to be
_         hpofe e In thee
budget This wE Include a
core program of high prW-
ty er_xp tre, pls a
m imen    program sould
addional resours beconm
available. Any suppleen-
tary expnftres would alo
conform to the spending
prbrlw



Amex I
Page 2 of 7
ii) Completion of study of
tax structure with
assistance from the Bank
and Funid and agreement on
action plan with
timetable for
e       ation, by
Deceber 31, 1986.
2. To improve planning and    i) New procedures introduced         1) Agreement on guideines to
Budgeting to define more      to unity and improve                 be issued to ministries for
cleariy obectives             recurrent and capta                  preparing 1987 annual plan
strategies and resource       budgeting.                           and an associated budgetary
availabilities, and to                                             submissions by June 30,
focus expenditure on                                               1986.
development goals.
ii) Annual Planning                  ii) Approval by Central
introduced with first                Committee and Cabinet of
plan produced in 1986.               planning and budgeting
guidelines and of general
procedures to be followed
in 1986617 planning and
budgeting cycle by
September30, 1986.
Ili) Unkages forged between          ilIl Issue guAidines
planning and budgeting.              specifying the
circumstances and
conditins under which
Government will absorb
debt of parastatals by
September30, 1986.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
3. To broaden the scope of    i) About 50 percent of total          i) Furnish to the
the foreign exchange           foreign exchange receipts             Association by December
auction so as to improve       are auctioned, with major             31, 1986. an action plan
rate determination.            exceptions being ZCCM and             to Include government
govemment requirements.              goods and services In the
auction and begin
implementating the plan by
March 31, 1987.
4. To Improve overall         Q) Monthly budgets with               i) Review operations of iOZ
management of the             three months forward                   to assess foreign
country's foreign             look, being prepared by                exchange manageent by
exchange resources,           the BOZ. Also, quartely                December 31, 1986.
Including mechanisms          budgets are prepared for
for channelling               remainder of year.
receipts and payments
through international
banks.
i1) Agree with the
Association on an action
program for improving
foreign exchange
management by BOZ.
including timetable for
impmentation, by
September30, 1986.
5. To improve management of    i) Assistance obtained from          1) Impiement technical
external indebtedness,         a consulting firm proved              assistance recommendations
incduding contracting of       to be inadequate.                     on assiace In debt
debts by parastatals.                                                management by December
31,1986.



Annex I
Page 4 of 7
6. To eliminate subsidy in    i) Maize price has been              i) Complete a study on
maize and improve              increased to cover nearly           impact of subsidies on
marketing by allowing          one-half of the maize                the poor and on mechanism
trading by private sector       wbsidy, pre-auction.                for targeting subsidy to
to establish proper            Increased to approxlmate             lowest income level by
producer prcing                border price equivalents.            December 31, 196, and
methodology.                                                        remove subsidy to higher
income groups by
September 30, 1987.
i) Remove subsid  on maize
used to produce iVisock
feed and opaque beer by
December 31, 1986.
III) Private traders have been      Iii) Take measures to
allowed to trade in maize.          implement recomeindations
of ongoing agricultural
marketing study, by
September 30, 1986.
iv) Agree on floor pricing
methodology for maize, by
September 30, 1986 and
Implement for 1987 crop
season.
7. To Improve the             i) ReView of planng divins           i) Agree on and prepare
functioning of the             has been completed and some          action plan, plus
Ministry of Agriculture       Improvements have been made.         ident TA needs, for
and Water Development.                                             improving operations of
MAWD by June 30,1986.



Annex 1
Page 5   7
actlon plan by
December 30, 1906.
8. To Improve delvery of      1) Govrnment has agreed to      1     ) Prepr acton plan to
credit to farmes,              merge AFC it ZADB.                   effect mer; prepae
partcularty                                                         and asue bndng
smnaliholders.                                                      poNces and procedures;
and adequately capitalze
ZADB by
September 30,1966.
9. To encourage export of     r) Ince        have been provided     ) Review Imp_le an of
agricultural goods.            for agrkiultural exports,            export Nenoug system
incuding foreign excha               as appied to agricultural
retention, tax incentves and         goods to esure its
simplfed Nensing                     proper functioning and
procedures.                          confirm dangeover to
registration syst. .
10. To Improve operating of   i) Indeco's Investment programs      i) Review with the Acaon 
public enterprise in          for 1985/86 and 1986/87 have          Assocation action prorams
order to avoid drain           been agreed with the                for phasing out or
public resources.              Asociation.                          resrcuing  dvidua
pubk entepris under
control of ndob and agee
on schedules for impbent-
ing reomnmndalone, by
Septebw  30. 91n.



Page 6of 7
11. To Lnprove custom tarf    1) A minimum tadff of 15              ) Come review of tarif
structure to achIev            pecent has ben                         wucture by
greater unformity in           Weid on aN goods                                31,1966 and
effectiW protection.                                                 himoporateommwea dtod
hI 1967 budgeL
N) lmaimm  wtais hav been
reduced fro  150 pecn
to 100 peoenL
II) Twf commissin ha been
Iv) Agreement OMa Tarif
Comm        (with _xler
assancem) WIN carr
out comprehensive review
of tari sucture.
12. To improve operatons of   1) A compreherne review of            i) Sin contract with mining
the mining Industy.            ZCCM s operatbons by                   consutants of
external consultants has             internatonal repute to
been comphted.                        carry out audts of ZCCM
5-yea plan by
September 30, 1966.
i) ZCCM ha prared a
5-year production and
and Investnot Plan based
on the review which has
been agreed with te
Assclation.



Annex 1
Page 7dof7
iii) Terms of reference for
independent audits of
impementation of ZCCM's
5-year plan agreed at
negotiations.
iv) Timetable for Implementig
ZCCM's 5-year plan during
1986 and 1987 confirmed
during negotiations.
13. To improve financial      i) Impact of kwacha devaluation       i) Carry out review of tax
viability of ZCCM while        on ZCCM's finances has been          regime applicable to ZCCM
at the same time               reviewed.                             by July 31, 1986.
maximizing contribution
of mining Industry
to public resources.
ii) Minerals export receipt tax      H) Incorporate recommendafons
was increased from 10 percent        of review in 1987 budget or
to 13 percent.                       sooner If possible.
il) Agreement reached to study
tax regime applicable to ZCCM
and implement results in time
for 1987 budget.



-27-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
Conditionalities and Modalities for Implementation
and Execution of the Project
(Artide HI of the Credit Agreement)
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agrment and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and finncial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in schedule 5 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time tot time by agreement between the Borrower and
the association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree procurement of the goods and
consultants services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 of this Agroement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shal, not later than March 31, 1987, submit to the Association a plan
of action, acceptable to the Association, for implementing a tariff structure geared to achieve greater
uniformity in effective protection.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1987, take appropriate measures to
implement the recommendations of the study on the organization of MAWD carried out under the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project No. 1545-ZA).
Section 3.05. Th Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1987, take appropriate measures to
institute a system for carrying out a periodic independent audit of ZCCM's mining operations under terms
of reference acceptable to the Association.
ion 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1987, take appropriate measures to being
implementing a program of action, acceptable, to the Association, for improving extrnwl debt management,
including debt of the public sector enterprises.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to implement, with effect from its
1987 Budget, the recommendations for the study currently being undertaken by the Borrower for modifying
its tax structure, including ZCCM's tax structure.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1987, commence implementation of
an Action program, acceptable to the Association for: (i) phasing out or otherwise disposing of on-going
industrial activities and enterprises within the public sector considered by the Borrower and the Association
to be economically unsound; and (ii) restructuring and/or taking other appropriate measures to improve the
performance of on-going industrial enterprise considered by the Borrower and the Association to be
potentially economically viable.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31, 1987 complete a study on targeting
maize subsidies to lower income groups; (b) not later than June 30, 1987, furnish to the Association a plan



-28-
hMM2
Paap 2 of 2
of action acceptable to the Aonw   for iplWemting te condatio. of heb study; and (c) not lato
thn Deember 31, 1987, impemet dte pln of acti  whoe ocve sall be, intwe ai, the comploet
removal of mabaidies on mae to higher incm  o s.
Section 3.10. The Borrwer shl: (a) not later tl  Mark 31, 1987, tk al appropriae
mesr  to completdy remove subidie on mnum  used lo prode hvesock fed ad opaque beer, ag (b)
take al appropiate measures to nmare tdat the evel of reuA_g oosaumrs esbam omaze for Fial
Year 1987 do not exceed in nominal trm  tho levels appdfor PFicl Year 1986.
Section 3.11. Ibh Borwer shall: (a) ot later ta Janury 31, 1987, compleb a review on th
impLicato  of broadening the ope of the foreip exchanp mauco sym to inhWlo 1rncto  of the
ministries and other agecies of the Borrowe, (b) wet lae     April 30, 1987, frnish to the Asciation
a plan of action acceptable to eo Asociation for implem ting theo rmmndation of the review; and (c)
not lat than July 31, 1987, commenco implemeting the plan of aco.
Secion 3.12. Th  Borrwer and the Aocitdion sl, fmm time to time, at te rqt   of deitr
party, exchnge views on the progs achievod in ca g cut te d  Prjct ad the progrm  To that end,
th Bonower hall furnish to tho A    -ociatio for its mview   d comment a report an th progres acieved
in marying out the Proect ad the Progmin, in mch detil and at sock ti_m  a th Asociation sa
reaso-ably request.



-29-
Page 1 of 1
ZAMBIA
RECVERY 1RGA
e Borower shll have:
(a)    mubmitted to the Association an action program, acceptable to the Association, for
resucturing public expenditures;
(b)    completed a review for broadening the scope of the foreign exchange auction system to
include govement trnactions;
(c)    submitted to the Asociation a policy sbatemnt, acceptable to the Asociation, setbng forth
the cicumstance and conditions under which the Borrower would consider absorbing the debts of the
P  m;
(d)    wubmitted to the Association a plan of action aceptable to the Aociation for
impblmen  the r         d      of the agricultural maketig study carried out under the Agricultural
Project (Credit No. 154S-ZA); and
(e)    ave takn or caused INDECO to take mesure acceptable to the Aseociation for
restuctuing individual INDECO entoeprises in acoordnce with a plan of action submitted under the
b    _dstra Rorienation Project (Credit No. 1630-ZA).



-30-
TABLE1
ZAMBIA'S FOREIGN EXCHANGE AUCTION
i          2          a        D O L LA R S
AUCTION              TOTAL  SUCCESS SUCCESS-                                          NOT          EXCH.
WEEK      DATE       NO.    FUL          FUL        DISO   REQUESTEDALLOCATED ALLOCATED RATE
1        11.10.I5   299      94        205          7    S16.9M         4.SM         12. IM      K 5.01
2        18.10.I5   397      137        260         7      12.5         5.0           7.5          6.10
3        2.510.35   345      186        159         ?      10.3         5.2          5.1           7.00
4        31.10.S5   270      241        29          ?      10.2         7.5           2.7          6.44
5        08.11.S5   232      181        51          ?      8.1          6.2           1.9          6.25
6        15.11.85   229      195        34          7      4.3          4.1           0.7          6.03
7        23.11.S5   234      213        21          ?      5.0          3.9           1.1          5.S0
a        30.11.35   205      166        39          7      4.9          4.2          0.7           5.75
9        07.12.95   117      169        IS          ?      4.6          4.2           0.4          5.74
10       14.12.15   201      IS0         21          ?      5.2         4.5           0.7          5.75
11       21.12.95   172      160         12          ?      4.6         4.3           0.3          5.77
12       28.12.85   101      100         1           ?      3.5         3.5            -           5.70
13       04.01.36   117      106         11          ?      5.0         4.6           0.4          5.76
14        11.01.86   164     105         59          ?      5.4         4.1           1.3          5.16
15        11.01.16   234     102        132          ?      6.7         3.3           3.4          6.01
16       25.01.86   309      151        151          ?     10.2         4.7           5.5          6.40
17       01.02.96   287      260         27          ?      6.5         6.1           0.4          6.36
1s       08.02.86   254      143        111          ?      7.2         3.9           3.3          6.51
19        15.02.36   2S1     20S         76          ?      6.7         5.2           1.5           6.68
*20      22.02.96   304      191        113          ?     11.9         7.7           4.2           6.78
21        01.03.96   301      136       165          ?     10.2         5.4           4.3           7.01
22        08.03.16   287      141        146         ?      7.7          5.9          1.3           6.90
23        15.03.S6   246     143        103          ?      7.4         5.6           1.8           6.75
24        22.03.86   357     253        104          ?     10.3          3.8          2.0           6.91
25        29.03.S6   193     173         20          ?      8.3         7.4           0.9           6.85
26        05.04.S6   251     216         42          7      3.3          7.2          1.1           6.87
27        12.04.16   246     171         75          ?      9.3         3.7 *         5.6           6.98
23        19.04.36   273     176         97          ?     11.4          3.6          2.8           7.06
29        26.04.36   281     196         3S          ?      3.3         6.8           2.0           6.98
30        03.05.S6   236     200         36          ?      7.2         6.3           0.9           7.00
31        10.05.16   274     234         40          ?      3.9         7.6           1.3           7.03
32        17.05.86   297      143       149          ?     10.6         3.7           6.9           7.11
33        24.05.16   279     153        126          ?      7.3         4.0           3.3           7.23
34        31.05.86   332     244         33          ?     10.1         7.3           2.3           7.31
35        07.06.16   313     170         148         ?      7.3         4.0           3.3           7.26
36        14.06.96   397     244         153         ?      11.1         7.0          4.1           7.32
037       21.06.S6   333      267        116          3     12.2         3.0           4.2          7.39
33        28.06.16   404      134       270          2     12.3         7.0           5.3           7.S1
39        05.07.86   518     151        367          16    15.2          7.6          7.6         K 7.71
40        11.07.86   451     163        283          5     13.9          7.3          6.6           8.07
*41       19.07.36   396      82         314        313    15.2          4.4          10.3          5.03
42        26.07.36   600     155        445         335    23.5          7.5          16.0          6.03
43        02.08.16   760     634        126         126    24.0         20.3          3.2           5.01
44        09.03.36   501     329        172           1    17.5         10.3          7.2           5.35
45        16.08.86   542     220        322          80    15.4          6.0          3.4           5.76
46        23.08.36   621     173        448         49    IL2            3.3          14.4          6.26



-31-
AUCTION               TOTAL  SUCCESS SUCCESS-                                           NOT           EXCH.
WEEK       DATE       NO.    FUL          FUL        DISQ   REQUESTEDALLOCATED ALLOCATED RATE
47        30.0S.S6   690      264        426          24     20.4         9.9           10.S          6.17
48        06.09.86   674      SO        173          70    22.1          13.6           9.2          7.00
49        13.09.86   418      326         92          43     12.9         11.7           1.2          S.64
SO        20.09.16   484       99        315          22     14.1         3.1           11.7          6.37
51        27.09.86   606      167        439          20    20.1          6.0           14.1          7.09
52        04.10.86   712      172        S40          43    22.3          S.6           16.7          7.64
53        11.10.16   769      121        641           9     22.1         5.0           17.1          1.30
54        18.10.16   734      125        609          16    22.6          2.6           20.0          9.35
55        25.10.16   493       84        409          35    17.3          4.1           13.2          10.32
56        01.11.16   517      119        398          33     13.1         4.0            9.3          11.51
*57        01.11.86   439      111        328          12    12.2          4.2           1.0          12.30
51        15.11.16   407      116        291           4     11.3         4.2            7.1          13.48
59        22.11.16   324      122        202           1      1.4          4.1           4.3          14.68
60        29.11.16   273      140         133          S      7.2         4.1            3.1          15.25
61        06.12.16   221      130         91          29      5.6          4.1           1.5          12.10
62        13.12.16   333      107        226          33     12.4          4.0           8.4          11.90
63        20.12.S6   310      116         194          9      8.4          4.0           4.4          12.50
64        27.12.16   251      141         117         IS      6.6          4.1           2.S          12.71
65        03.01.87   192      11         74           6      5.7          4.1           1.6          12.97
66        10.01.87   232       55         177          1      9.9         4.1            5.1          13.51
67        17.01.87   257      111         146         12      1.9          4.0           4.9          14.12
68        24.01.87   250      109         141          3      1.9          4.1           4.1          14.92
*1A        28.03.87   62S      151        474          ?       ?           1.0 ?          ?           15.00
2A        04.04.17   457       62        395           ?      ?            6.0 ?         ?            16.99
3A        11.04.87   370       71        299           ?      ?           6.0 ?          ?            11.75
4A        16.04.17   270       S1         139          ?      ?           6.0 ?          ?            19.95
SA        24.04.87   250       91         IS2          ?      ?           6.0 ?          ?            21.01
6A        02.05.17   192      IS1         34           ?      ?           6.0 ?          ?            15.00
SOURCES 1. B.O.Z. unpublished study 'The Foreign Exchange Auction System. A Review of the First
Year of Operations' for Auctions 1 - 35; and other Bank documents.
2. 'TimesodZambalforAuctions36-58&1A-6A.
NOTE:        The figures for Dollars allocated do not Include te Banking System.



-32-                              I.SZ
(Page 1 of 1)
Week 20:      Zimoil, Tazaza, Tazara and Zambia Airvays are
brought into the auction.
Week 26:      Dr. L. Chivuno appointed Governor of the Bank of
Zambia on 4.4.86
Week 27:      The figures for dollars allocated and dollars not
allocated are doubtful.
Week 37:      Auction results are published in full in the press
from now until Week 68.
Week 41:      a)   Stringent documentary requirements introduced.
Bids to be accompanied by tax clearance
certificates and proof of receipt of goods for
which L/Cs had been opened 90 days or more
previously.
b)   In addition only 20% of funds used for bidding
could come from bank overdrafts. (This
condition was found to be unworkable and was
later rescinded)
c)   As a result of these new requiriehts 313
applications (for $10.8-) which would
otherwise have succoeded were disqualified.
Week 42:      All bids above X8.07 (total 385 for $10.1-)
disqualified.
Week 43:      a)   Dutch auction system introduced
b)   126 disqualifications ($3.2m).  All other bids
succeded, as enough dollars are sold to clear
all bids down to the lowest at K5.01. Bank of
Zambia nets a K40 million profit.
Week 44:      81 bids disqualified ($2.8-)
Week 45:      80 bids disqualified ($2.8-)
Week 48:      70 bids disqualified (S5.0-)
Week 57:      a)   Bank rate raised to 30%
b)   30% deposit on all bids introduced
Week 61:      29 bids disqualified ($0.3m).  Without these
disqualifications the rate would have been K14.50.
Disqualifications in the preceding 3 weeks had not exceeded
152,000.
Week 62:      a)   33 bids disqualified ($l.7u).  Without these
disqualifications the rate would have been
K12.G0.
b)   Riots reduce number of bids
week IA:      Auction reintroduced.  Deposit raised to 40%.



-33-
(Pr" 1 or 1)
and Use,   .aaeAmtla  leete
(Peset shar)
Consumer Goods                        6* 02
Internediate Goods                   46.55
Machinery,  quipment, spare-parts   15.66
Miscellaneous Goods                  15.63
Services                             11.77
Total                             1OAs 0    (US$ 342.1 million)
Aqriculture                           5.99
Manufacturing                        41.61
Parastatals                          45.65
Others                                6.74
Total                               2ag D     (US$ 342.1 million)
Sank of Zambia






-35-
Attachment
COMMENTS BY ZAMBIAN GOVERNMENT (MINISTRY OF FINANCE) TO THE PCR
(Received June 4, 1992)
The Government of the Republic of Zambia accepts the Project
Completion Report am prepared by Mr. James Karuga. The Zconomic
Recovery Credit I (Credit 1720-ZA) laid a foundation for the
implementation of most of the current economic liberalization measures.
It is undoubtedly clear that most of the requirm-nts which needed
action at the inception of ERC I have in the course of time boen taken
care of. The resultant structural reforms that took place under the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 1545-ZA of 1985) and the
Industrial Reorientation Credit (Credit 1630-ZA of 1986) enhanced the
adjustment effort.
Trade liberalization measures introduced as part of the
Government's adjustment and stabilization programme established the need
to trim the public enterprise sector. It further established a liberal
approach to foreign exchange management which evolved from the auction
to the Open General Licence System.
Zambia fully appreciates efforts being made by the World Bank in
helping the country continue to restructure. In spite of amounting
pressure from the effects of the drought, Zambia is committod to
continue restructuring its economy.



