OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1720 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Recovery Program)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         (/e JA      /, 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1720 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     lF4,t&'&J' CO4      , 1986, between THE
REPULIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, hqs requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Association has received a letter dated April 23,
1986, from the Borrower describing a program of actions designed
to bring about appropriate changes in its economy (the Program)
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution of the program and the Project referred
to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement,
the performance by the Borrower and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit."; and


﻿-2-
(b) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted,
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(b) "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) "ZCCM" means the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
Limited, a company incorporated under the Laws of Zambia;
(d) "INDECO" means Industrial Development Corporation, a
company incorporated under the Laws of Zambia;
(e) "ZIMCO" means Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation,
Limited, a company incorporated under the Laws of Zambia;
(f) "MAWD" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Development of the Borrower; and
(g) "Fiscal Year" means the period from January 1 to
December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty two million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 42,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1720 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated-                        , 1986, between THE
REPULIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
14HERhIAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)  the Association has received a letter dated April 23,
1986, from the Borrower describing a program of actions designed
to bring about appropriate changes in its economy (the Program)
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution of the program and the Project referred
to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement,
the performance by the Borrower and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit."; and


﻿-2-
(b) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(b) "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) "ZCCM" means the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
Limited, a company incorporated under the Laws of Zambia;
(d) "INDECO" means Industrial Development Corporation, a
company incorporated under the Laws of Zambia;
(e) "ZIMCO" means Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation,
Limited, a company incorporated under the Laws of Zambia;
(f) "MAWD" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Development of the Borrower; and
(g) "Fiscal Year" means the period from January 1 to
December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty two million six hundred thousand Special
Drav,ing Rights (SDR 42,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended


﻿- 3 -
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars special accounts in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 (Import Special
Account) and Schedule 7 (Technical Assistance Special Account) to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time.     The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.


﻿Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1996, and ending March 1,
2036.  Each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1987, submit to the Association a plan of action, acceptable to
the Association, for implementing a tariff structure geared to
achieve greater uniformity in effective protection.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1987, take appropriate measures to implement the recommendations
of the study on the organization of MAWD carried out under the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 1545-ZA).


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1987, take appropriate measures to institute a system for carry-
ing out a periodic independent audit of ZCCM's mining operations
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1987, take appropriate measures to begin implementing a program
of action, acceptable to the Association, for improving external
debt management, including debt of the public sector enterprises.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take appropriate measures
to implement, with effect from its 1987 Budget, the recommenda-
tions of the study currently being undertaken by the Borrower
for modifying its tax structure, including ZCCM's tax struc-
ture.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than January 31,
1987, commence implementation of an Action Program, acceptable
to the Association for: (i) pha,ing out or otherwise disposing
of on-going industrial activities and enterprises within the
public sector considered by the Borrower and the Association to
be economically unsound; and (ii) restructuring and/or taking
other appropriate measures to improve the performance of on-
going industrial enterprises considered by the Borrower and the
Association to be potentially economically viable.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
March 31, 1987 complete a study on targeting maize subsidies to
lower income groups; (b) not later than June 30, 1987, furnish to
the Association a plan of action acceptable to the Association
for implementing the recommendations of the study; and (c) not
later than December 31, 1987, implement the plan of action whose
objectives shall be, inter alia, the complete removal of sub-
sidies on maize to higher income groups.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
Marci. 31, 1987, take all appropriate measures to completely
remove subsidies on maize used to produce livestock feed and
opaque beer; and (b) take all appropriate measures to ensure that
the level of remaining consumer subsidies on maize for Fiscal
Year 1987 do not exceed in nominal terms the levels appropriated
for Fiscal Year 1986.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Janu-
ary 31, 1987, complete a review on the implications of broadening


﻿-6-
the scope of the foreign exchange auction system to include
transactions of the ministries and other agencies of the Bor-
rower; (b) not later than April 30, 1987, furnish to the
Association a plan of action acceptable to the Association for
implementing the recommendations of the review; and (c) not later
than July 31, 1987, commence implementing the plan of action.
Section 3.12. The Borrower and the Association shall, from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Project and the Pro-
gram. To that end, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Project and the Program, in such detail and at
such times as the Association shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 7 -
(c)  For all expendioures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the com-
pletion of the audit for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable    -he  Association's   rrr-esentatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka
Zambia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                            MINFIN ZA 42221
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B y /' 16A/Y
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿-9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Imported Goods          41,500,000          100% of foreign
and materials                              expenditures
(2) Consultants'               930,000          100%
Services
(3) Training                   170,000          100%
TOTAL             42,600,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this  Schedule  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in a currency other than that of
the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of
any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above and
except and to the extent as the Association shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made from Category 1 in respect
of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Groups        Sub-Groups               Description of Items
112                            Alcoholic Beverages
121                            Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse


﻿- 10 -
Groups        Sub-Groups               Description of Items
122                            Tobacco, manufactured
667                            Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones unworked or
worked
668                            Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys, un-
wrought or wrought and articles
thereof, n.e.s., waste and scrap
of uranium depleted in U235 and
of thorium
718          718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897          897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
-           971.0             Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(c) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for private or public luxury consumption.
4.   No withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures under Category (1) after the aggregate of the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equiva-
lent of SDR 20,750,000 unless the Association shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.12 of this
Agreement: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project and the Program; and (ii) that the
actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been
taken.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) sustain the
macro-economic policy reform initiatives already undertaken by
the Borrower by contributing to the availability of foreign
exchange for the importation of necessary inputs; and (b) support
additional and more detailed policy actions, sectoral and
macro-economic, to implement the reform program satisfactorily.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Imports
A program for the importation of goods and materials.
Parc B:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Provision of technical assistance to:
(a) the Ministry of Finance to assist in: (i) improving
procedures, practices and systems for external debt
management; and (ii) carrying out periodic independent
mining audits to ensure effective implementation of the
Five-Year Production and Investment Plan for the Mining
Sector;
(b) the   Bank  of   Zambia  to  assist  in   reviewing  its
operations,  in   particular  procedures   and  systems
relating to management of foreign exchange and to make
recommendations for improvement; and
(c) MAWD to assist in carrying out a study on subsidies on
maize and making recommendations on a system to target
consumer subsidies to lower income groups and to elimi-
nate subsidies on livestock feed.
2.    Provision of local and overseas training to Bank of Zambia
staff in various Central Bank operations.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1989.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A.   Modified International Competitive Bidding
Contracts for the procurement of goods and materials under
Part A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (hereinafter called the Gui0elines), subject to
the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an   advertisement   in  a  newspaper,   periodical
or technical journal of wide international cir-
culation; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single


﻿- 13 -
currency widely used in international trade and
specified in the bidding documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
Part B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods and materials under Part A of the
Project estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000
each shall be awarded on the basis of normal procurement proce-
dures of the purchaser of such goods.
2.   Contracts for procurement of goods and materials shall be
bulked whenever reasonably practicable.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to para-
graph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished to the Associa-
tion prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
(the Import Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a)
and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall
be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Conditions for the Second Tranche
The measures to be specifically included in the review
provided in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement are as
follows:
The Borrower shall have:
(a) submitted to the Association an action program, accept-
able to the Association, for restructuring public expenditures;
(b) completed a review for broadening the scope of the for-
eign exchange auction system to include government transactions;
(c) submitted to the Association a policy statement,
acceptable to the Association, setting forth the circumstances
and conditions under which the Borrower would consider absorbing
the debts of the parastatal enterprises;
(d) submitted to the Association a plan of action, accept-
able to the Association, for implementing the recommendations of
the agricultural marketing study carried out under the Agricul-
tural Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 1545-ZA); and
(e) taken or caused INDECO to take measures, acceptable to
the Association, for restructuring individual INDECO enterprises
in accordance with a plan of action submitted under the
Industrial Reorientation Project (Credit No. 1630-ZA).


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.   In carrying out Part A of the Project the Borrower shall
sell foreign exchange to importers through the auction system
as described in the Industrial Reorientation Project (Credit
1630-ZA).
2.   The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to ensure that
the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (1) shall be
utilised only for the importation of goods and materials under
Part A of the Project.
3.   The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to ensure that
the proceeds of the Credit sold under the auction system shall
not exceed a cumulative average of $8,000,000 equivalent per
month or such other amount as the Association may agree.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 6
Import Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Category (1) in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the   term  "Authorized  Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to SDR 20,750,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expendit--es in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 18 -
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective Categories
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Category (1) of the Project, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Category
(1)  of  the  Project   shall  follow  such  procedures   as  the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pur.suant to paragraph 2


﻿- 19 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 7
Technical Assistance Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (2) and (3) in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the   term  "Authorized  Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as th2 Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the


﻿- 21 -
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective
Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (2) and (3) of the Project,
minus the amount of any outstanding special com-
mitment entered into by the Association pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Catego-
ries (2) and (3) of the Project shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 22 -
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


