Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             Report No. 20435-ID
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3448-IND
20 April 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



C'[1RRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$         = Rp. 1,992
Rp.1.OMillion= US$ 502.00
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 -March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July - June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Bank         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
BEP          Basic Education Project
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CPMU         Central Project Management Unit
DGPSE        Directorate Genera:l of Primary and Secondary Education
Ebtanas      National examination upon completion of primary and secondary school levels
GOI          Government of Indonesia
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
JESP         Junior Secondary Education Project
KKG          Cluster-based teacher working group
MOEC         Ministry of Education and Culture
MOHA         Ministry of Home Affairs
MORA         Ministry of Religious Affairs
PPMU         Provincial Project Management Unit
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SD          Sekolah Dasar, Prirnary School
SLTP        Sekolah Lanjutan Tingkat Pertama, Junior Secondary School
Vice President                            Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Sector Director                    :      Alan Ruby
Country Director                   :      Mark Baird
Task Manager                       :      Susiana Iskandar



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary ............                                                                            i
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.      Project Objectives.1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                                     .2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                                    .6
D.   Project Sustainability ........................                                  .7
E.      Bank Performance.8
F. Borrower Performance .9
G. Assessment of Outcome                                             .9
HI.   Future Operation.9
I.      Key Lessons Learned.10
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment .12
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3:  Project Timetable .14
Table 4:      Loan Disbursement Cumulated, Estimated and Actual ...............      ..........................    14
Table 5a:     Key Indicators For Project Implementation ........................................................  15
Table Sb:     Indicators for Project Monitoring ..............................................................    17
Table 6a:     Summary Status of Overseas Fellowship ......................................................    18
Table 6b:     Summary of Equipment Status Provided .........................................................   19
Table 6c:     Status of Consultant Services ...............................................................   20
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project .................................... ..........................   21
Table 8a:     Project Cost ..............................................................   21
Table 8b:     Project Financing ..............................................................   21
Table 9:      Status of Legal Covenants ..............................    ................................  22
Table 10:     Bank resources: Mission .............................     .................................    24
Annexes
l. Mission's Aide-Memoire .26
2.  Borrower Contribution to the ICR .32
3.   Map of Indonesia ................                                                             end piece
This documnt has a restricted distnibution and may be used by recipient only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authoization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3448-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Primary Education Quality
Improvement Project for which loan no. 3448-IND in the amount of US$ 37.0 million equivalent was
approved on May 18, 1992 and made effective on June 26, 1992.
The loan was closed on March 30, 1999 compared with the original date of September 30, 1997.
Final disbursement took place on January 26, 2000 at which time the balance was US$ 2,682,458.26
(excluding 17,449.32 pending refund). An amount of US$ 6.0 million had previously been canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Susiana Iskandar of the Human Development Sector, EACIF, World
Bank Office of Jakarta and reviewed by Samuel Lieberman, Sector Coordinator for Human Development,
EACIF, Alan Ruby, Director for Human Development Unit, EASHD, and Oscar de Bruyn Kops,
Country Program Coordinator (EAP). The peer reviewer was Audrey Aaron. The borrower has provided
comments on the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's mission done by Susiana Iskandar (Team
Leader), Anthony Somerset, Jazlin Ebenezer, Jerry Strudwick, Wahyudi (Education Specialists), and
Rosfita Roesli (Operations Officer, World Bank Office of Jakarta) in August 1999. The Borrower
prepared evaluation report and its summary is attached to this ICR as Annex 2.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3448-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.    Introduction
(i)    The Primary Education Quality Improvement Project (PEQIP) was aimed to assist the
Government of Indonesia to improve the quality of primary education. The project design was built on an
innovative in-service teacher professional support (SPP) program and new pedagogical methods (CBSA)
which was piloted in seven provinces and judged a successful innovation. In addition, the project was
designed to provide budgetary support for provision of additional inputs to improve quality in schools in
poor communities and to introduce measures to enhance policy and budgetary and administrative support
to primary schools.
(ii)   PEQIP was designed as a pilot with a focus on six provinces: Aceh, West Sumatra, Yogyakarta,
North Sulawesi, Bali, and Nusa Tenggara Timur. Within each province, six sub-districts were selected,
covering about 900 primary schools, or less than 1% of all primary schools in Indonesia' The project
became effective on June 26, 1992 and was closed in March, 1999, compared to original date of
September 30 1997. The Project was planned to absorb US$ 53.9 million (of which the IBRD loan
financed US$ 37 million and the Government of Indonesia financed US$ 16.9 million). The final
disbursement took place in 25 August, 1999 leaving a balance of US$ 2,672,208 undisbursed and US$
17,449 pending refund. As a response to the economic crisis and to enhance cost effectiveness, an amount
of US$ 6,000,000 of the loan was cancelled in August 1998.
B.    Project Objectives
(iii)     The overall objective was to introduce policies and mechanisms to improve primary
education quality in order to raise students completion rates and achievement. This was to be
accomplished by (a) improving teaching-learning, (b) providing special assistance (an equitable resource
base) for under-served schools, and (c) enhancing capacity to manage quality improvement program.
Three project components corresponded to the three objectives. The largest (with US$ 25.5 allocated)
addressed teaching-learning process. The second one, with US$ 9.8 million allocated, was to achieve the
objective of providing special assistance (an equitable resource base) for under-served schools. The third
component, with US$ 4 million allocated, was to enhance capacity to manage quality improvement.
' Three clusters of 8 schools in 6 sub-districts in 6 provinces



C.    Implementation Experience and Results
(iv)   The project largely achieved its aims with regards to providing schools with better trained
teachers and project districts with trained trainers. It also strengthened educational management at school
level by empowering head teachers and improving parents and community participation in school
activities. Overall, PEQIP schools have comparatively better teachers, head teachers, physical conditions,
which, in turn, seem to attract better student inputs. Compared to non-PEQIP schools, classroom
processes in the PEQIP schools are more lively and effective.
(v)     For some reasons, the strategy of relying on physical inputs to raise educational quality did not
work well. The low level of the use of equipment and materials by the project schools suggests that the
suitability of equipment and readiness of the teachers to use them effectively were not assessed.
Duplication of equipment and materials suggests a lack of communication between the project and other
responsible agencies.
(vi)   The Special Assistance Fund (SAF) mechanism addressed the issue of equitable funding system
that resulted in inadequate financial capability of schools in poor communities, achieved its objectives
only in parts. Nevertheless, it provided some valuable lessons to the crisis-reponse program Back to
School (scholarship and school grant), especially on school selection and fund chanelling mechanisms
(vii)  The project's aim to build managerial and institutional capacity had a very limited success. The
project established parents, community and school partnerrships in school quality improvement; however
the project did not ensure that schools and communities agreed on quality education. The project
enhanced head teachers' managerial capabilities, but failed to provide them with skills in allocating and
using resources efficiently, monitoring and supervising teachers in the classroom processes.
(viii)  The project moved very slowly in the beginning since (a) it was the first Bank's project for the
implementing agency, Directorate of Primary Education and there were changes of both the directorate
official and project manager; and (b) there were changes of Division Chief and Task Manager for this
project. At the beginning of the third year of the implementation, only about 18% of the loan was
disbursed, with disbursment rates for the key components, consultant sevices and studies, at zero.
Accordingly, the Bank agreed to the proposed project extention to March 1999 and to a minor change in
funding allocation. As response to economic crisis, the Bank agreed to change the percentage of financing
Special Assistance Fund category from 50% to 90%.
(ix)   The project overall was satisfactory but there are some lessons for doing better in future quality
improvement effort. The first is project design. The institutional capacity of the implementing agency was
overrated, the scope of activities was too broad and did not focus on teaching and learning processes and
outputs as keys for quality, and yet it failed to effectively address uncoordinated administrative support,
uncoordinated budget planning, and weak policy, management and inadequate monitoring capacity which
resulted from, among others, dual management primary of education by MOHA and MOEC. Secondly,
neither the Bank nor the Goverrnment were clear about their views of piloting. The project was not treated
as a true pilot - a laboratory in nature - requiring closer attention and changes in order to achieve the
objectives. For example, no baseline data were collected to be used to assess project impacts. Thirdly, the
project sustainability. Apart from its success in establishing school cluster-based activities, it was not
fully responsive to the Bank's and consultants recommendation to certify the project tutors and key
subject teachers to ensure their availability and commitment in the post-project period.
.i.



D.    Summary of Project Sustainability, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
(x)    The Government's commitment on the improvement of educational quality is reflected in some
ongoing projects. In addition to Basic Education Projects, BEP, (three World Bank loans plus another one
under preparation), the Government fully funds Proyek Pengembangan Sekolah Dasar (PSD). Through
PSD, MOEC is applying PEQIP approaches in all provinces, including ex-PEQIP's and BEP's provinces.
Funding will be made available to all school clusters on a revolving basis, approximately one-quarter of
all clusters receiving funds each year. MOHA (Dinas P dan K) also has some teacher training and
material provision programs. This suggests that in many provinces those existing projects will
unavoidably overlaps with each other.
(xi)   PEQIP, a costly investment, is not financially sustainable. During its implementation, it only
covered less that 0.4% of total primary school enrollments, with cost per pupil-year about 50 times higher
than the development expenditure for quality improvement by MOEC at the time. This means that to
extend the same level of PEQIP benefits to all pupils, commitment of some US$ 11 billion for a six year
project. Even without the current economic crisis, successor quality-improvement projects could not
possibly have sustained such levels of expenditure. Nevertheless, sustained levels of community
participation and high level of participation in school cluster activities in many project areas suggest that
PEQIP approach will be sustainable as these areas enjoy the project legacy: better trained teachers, head
teachers, tutors, better physical facilities, and strong community appreciation and participation. They are
able to self-fund teacher in-service activities with support from community.
(xii)  The Bank learned some lessons from PEQIP and reflected them in Basic Education Projects and
Back to School Program: (a) School clusters have been able to provide a mechanism for teachers to
mutually support each others in quality improvement effort; (ii) Decentralized and participatory in-service
training program are more effective and efficient than centralized, traditional lecture mode; (iii)
Participation techniques can enhance community ownership to the schools; (iv) There is a need for close
MOEC-MOHA cooperation in managing quality improvement; (v) Training for the head teachers in the
use of grants will influence the success of the intervention; (vi) Decentralizing authority to agencies and
community at lower levels (district, subdistrict, and school) to select scholarship and grants recipients can
enhance ownership of both government agencies and community and help assuring transparency; (vii)
Professional program monitoring is essential for scholarship and grants program.
(xiii) The following are important lessons for the Government: (a) Training is more effective when it is
based on analysis of teacher's needs, rather than on what centrally based trainers or administrators want to
provide; (b) Training for teachers, head teachers, tutors and supervisors should be integrated to establish
common understanding and purpose; (c) Good head teachers are instrumental in developing good
schools; (d) Supplies of books and materials should be based on actual needs rather than standard
packages provided from the center and should be closely linked to teacher training programs; (e) Parents
participation should extend beyond the provision of financial and labor to involve in students learning
processes; (f) Project management should have clear objectives and should focus on outputs rather than
activities; (g) The functions of the project management would be more cost effective if decentralized to
local level; and (h) Follow up to monitoring and formative evaluation is an essential part of project
management.
. . 






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3448-IND
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
I.    Outline of the Project. The Primary Education Quality Improvement Project (PEQIP) was
aimed to assist the Government of Indonesia to improve the quality of primary education. The
project design was built on an innovative in-service teacher professional support (SPP) program
and new pedagogical methods (CBSA) which was piloted in seven provinces and judged a
successful innovation. In addition, the project was designed to provide budgetary support for
provision of additional inputs to improve quality in schools in poor communities and to introduce
measures to enhance policy and budgetary and administrative support to primary schools.
2.    PEQIP was designed as a pilot with a focus on six provinces: Aceh, West Sumatra,
Yogyakarta, North Sulawesi, Bali, and Nusa Tenggara Timur. Within each province, six sub-
districts were selected, covering about 900 primary schools, or less than 1% of all primary
schools in Indonesia.2 In each of the sub-districts, three clusters consisting of eight schools
(consisted of one core school and seven satellite schools) were selected as the target for project
intervention. The project became effective on June 26, 1992 and was closed in March, 1999, as
compared to original date of September 30 1997. During PEQIP, the core schools were developed
as teacher centers. A wide range of equipment and materials was provided (books, science kits,
audiovisual equipment etc). The Project also provided resources for the satellite schools, but on a
much smaller scale. Activities to strengthen relationships between schools and their communities
were undertaken.
3.    Statement of Objectives. As stipulated in the SAR (Report No. 9575), the overall
objective of the project was to introduce policies and mechanism to improve primary education
quality aimed at raising student achievement and completion rates. This was to be accomplished
by addressing the main issues in quality of primary education in Indonesia. Specific objectives
were to:
a. Improve teaching and learning;
b. Provide special assistance (an equitable resource base) for under-served schools; and
c. Enhance capacity to manage quality improvement program.
4.    Project Objectives and Components. The three project objectives presented above were
organized into three corresponding project components. As described in the SAR the largest
component (with US$ 25.5 allocated) addressed teaching-learning processes. The second
component, with US$ 9.8 million allocated, addressed the objective of providing special
2 Three clusters of 8 schools in 6 sub-districts in 6 provinces



assistance (an equitable resource base) for under-served schools. The third component, with US$
4 million allocated, focused on enhancing capacity to manage quality improvement.
5.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The Project objectives largely reflect the following
issues of quality of basic education in Indonesia: (i) ineffective teaching-learning processes by
under-educated and under-itrained teachers; (ii) an inequitable funding system which means that
schools in poor communities have inadequate financial support for their operations; and (iii) a
weak institutional, budgetary and policy framework, which means that schools suffer
operationally.
6.     Project Restructuring. The Project was planned to absorb US$ 53.9 million (of which the
IBRD loan financed US$ 37 million and the Government of Indonesia financed US$ 16.9
million). The final disbursement took place in October 4, 1999 leaving a balance of US$
2,682,458.26 undisbursed and US$ 17,449.32 pending refund. The project moved very slowly in
the beginning since (a) it was the first Bank's project for the implementing agency, Directorate of
Primary Education and there were changes of both the directorate official and project manager;
and (b) there were changes of Division Chief and Task Manager for this project. At the beginning
of the third year of the implementation, only about 18% of the loan was disbursed, with
disbursment rates for the key components, consultant sevices and studies, at zero. Accordingly,
the Bank agreed to the proposed project extension to March 1999 and to a minor change in
funding allocation. As an irmpact of financial crises, the Government could only provide limited
counterpart fund. Accordingly the Bank agreed to change the percentage of financing Special
Assistance Fund category fiom 50% to 90% in April 1998 and to cancel an amount of US$
6,000,000 of the loan in August 1998.
B. Achievement of Objectives
7.    The SAR specified performance indicators for each project intervention. Because there
were no baseline data to evaluate project achievements, this ICR compared PEQIP and no-PEQIP
schools' condition and activities. In general the project has succeded in strengthening educational
management at school level by empowering principals and improving parent and community
participation in school activities. Overall, PEQIP-school teachers are now professionally more
capable. But there are other issues which will require resolution in future quality improvement
efforts.
Improving teaching-learnting
8.    Teacher training. The project has largely achieved its aims with regard to improve
teaching and learning processes. Through its training and cluster-based teacher working group
(KKG), the project was getting teachers to use more varied teaching methods, teaching aids and
textbook. Compared to non-PEQIP schools, classroom processes in the project schools more
lively and effective. Still, the project was not entirely successful in bringing the desired quality of
teaching and learning process. After several years of interventions, some classroom
characteristics identified during preparation remained: lack of teachers' attention to individual
student's learning, one-way instructional approaches, insufficient attention given to children's
acquisition of skills and understanding, poor questioning techniques, and summative as opposed
to formative tests.
2



9.     A number of factors account for the limited project impact on the teaching and learning
processes:
a. Delay in recruitment of international consultants. The international consultant training
team (from GTZ/BTE) was not hired until the third year of the project. By this time,
initial training for the main groups of PEQIP trainers was well on the way to completion,
conducted centrally by Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) delivered in the
traditional training (lecture) mode, attended by large numbers of participants (as many as
1 15 in some cases) . In consequence, the impact of the international team on the initial
training of trainers was largely confined to the clusters which were activated in PEQIP
during the second (dissemination) phase.
b. Lack of linkages between programs for trainers and programs for managers. The training
programs for trainers and those for managers (principals, supervisors, project officers)
remained almost entirely separate. The problem was identified by a Bank supervision
mission and the MES consultants. Accordingly, the training program was modified.
Principals and supervisors were then invited to partake in the training of core tutors.
Although the diagnosis came late and the modification was only applied during the
extension period, this modified program helped head-teachers and supervisors to become
more aware of tutors' role in helping teachers, and how they could function as
professional partners.
c. Subject-content orientation of KKG meetings. KKG, which constitute the key grassroots
organization in the PEQIP teacher development system often tend to focus on filling gaps
in teachers' knowledge of specific curriculum topics. Although in many instances it was
observed that these meetings discussed how to improve teaching-learning processes and
the outcome of EBTANAS, they paid insufficient attention to the development of
instructional strategies suited to teaching the topics and strengthening questioning
technique.
10.   Physical inputs. The strategy of relying on physical inputs to raise educational quality did
not work well and was way too expensive.
a. The low level of the use of equipment and materials by the project schools suggests that
the suitability of equipment and readiness of the teachers to use them effectively were not
well assessed. Comprehensive, expensive set of audiovisual hardware, including a video
camera (usually of professional quality) and a television set were provided to core
schools. Because such sets were costly to operate and maintain, they had in general been
little used and had only limited effects on the quality of teaching and learning. Science
kits had also been little used for two reasons. First, the teachers were not sufficiently
trained in using them and, second, the apparatus was so complex that using or assembling
them consumed a lot of time.
b. Duplication of equipment and materials suggests a lack of communication between the
project and other responsible agencies. In many if not most schools, kits provided by the
project were not the only kits the schools received, but they also received some similar
kits from Dinas P dan K and a previous MOEC project.
11.   Library supply. During the project, library policies were determined centrally, and thus
took little account of the varied needs of schools in different localities. It was notable that
librarians and class teachers had little idea as to which titles were most popular with the students.
It seems likely that their lack of interest stemmed, in part at least, from the fact that they took
3



little if any part in deciding, which library books should be ordered for their school. Nevertheless,
in response to evaluation reports, recent book supplies have been better attuned to learning needs.
It was clear from the evidence of wear and tear in many schools that the books were being well
used. An interesting development in the project schools in West Sumatra was cooperation
between teachers and the parents' association has led to the purchase of an additional set of
children's reading books. The books are colorfully illustrated, and have proved highly popular
with the students.
Special Assistance Fund (SAF) for Under-served Schools
12.   SAF was introduced to address funding inequality that resulted in an inadequate
financial capability of schools in poor communities to support their operations. This program was
designed to develop a targeting mechanism to serve under-served schools as well as to pilot
channeling funds directly to schools. The funds were intended to provide for expenditure on non-
salary items to support the teaching learning process.
13.   The project spent LFS$ 540,000 to fund SAF to 400 of the poorest schools in two
provinces, Nusa Tenggara Timur and Sumatera Barat, and associated training in resource
management for principals and other education personnel. The project's planned expansion of
the SAF program to include all six PEQIP provinces proved unnecessary as the government
introduced a program of nation-wide block grants for school year 1998/99 (Dana Bantuan
Operasional, DBO) as a response to the economic crisis.
14.   Monitoring to SAF recipient schools indicated that a considerable portion of the funds
were being used as intended to provide increased learning resources, but that a number of
valuable lessons were evident:
a. The selection process employed to distribute the SAF grants appeared to be less than
objective as visits to sites revealed that the poorest schools were not always selected.
b. Training in the use of grants will influence the success of the intervention. SAF schools
head principals were not provided with sufficient SAF training and/or guidelines. The
way in which they used SAF funds revealed that they did not know how to prioritize
needs in respect to cluality improvements
c. Grant use were not clearly defined. In many SAF schools one-third of each grant was not
used in support of the curriculum. Rather, the money was used to fund school-based
enterprises that, in general, proved to be unsuccessful in generating income for schools.
d. Professional prograrn monitoring was essential. In almost all cases, the government's
monitoring of the SAF program was limited and SAF related record keeping inadequate.
Checks and controls were few and reporting procedures failed to produce useful flows of
information on process or impact.
e. Grant funds was not provided to schools as directly as possible. The system of fund
delivery involving KPKN and BRI was cumbersome, time-consuming and expensive for
the recipient schools. There were delays in the disbursement of funds that in turn
restricted their usefulness to support the teaching-learning process.
4



Enhancing quality improvement management
15.   The project's aim to build managerial and institutional capacity had a limited success.
This partly because the project design only partly addressed identified weaknesses in
management of quality improvement. More emphasis was given to managerial problems at school
level. The issues of uncoordinated administrative support, uncoordinated budget planning, and
weak policy, management and inadequate monitoring capacity which resulted from, among
others, dual management primary of education by MOHA and MOEC were barely touched, and
some of the problems remained.
16.   Management and supervisory training for principal and supervisor. There is some.
evidence that the project has succeeded in enhancing principals' management capabilities in
allocating and using resources efficiently. However,. the project failed to adequately provide
principals and school supervisors with skills in monitoring and supervising teachers in the
classroom processes. This is partly because the training of the principals was focused on
administrative aspects. Only during the extension period did the project train the principals and
supervisors together with the trainers to enhance their awareness of the importance of supervising
the classroom processes and of promoting community participation in quality improvement
efforts. Because of this late action, some teachers lacked of confidence in supervisors' technical
capability in supervising classroom processes.
17.   Management training for education staff. To build capacity in primary education
management as well as to strengthen the project management, some education staff at provincial
and district offices were sent to a training program at Curtin University. The program covered
explanations of the Australian educational system and observations of schools and teaching. The
participants may have benefited from the program individually. But this activity failed to achieve
its institutional aims. Neither project management, MOEC nor Dinas P dan K enjoyed expected
benefit because (i) the program was conducted very late (in the fifth year of the project); and (ii)
upon returning to the office, only a few of them worked with the project management or primary
education section of the office.
18.   Guidelines for the management of schools and school clusters. The project produced a set
of guidelines aimed at improving managerial capabilities of the education managers. The
guidelines are on: (i) School cluster management; (ii) School management; (iii) Classroom
management; (iv) Better teaching-learning practices; (v) School monitoring for use by education
managers and school supervisors; (vi) Monitoring block grants to under-served schools; and (vii)
Practical means of promoting community participation. There is evidence that the education
managers, school supervisors, and teachers benefited from the guidelines.
19.   Information, Education and Communication training. The project introduced the concept
of community participation in education through training programs for education managers,
supervisors, community leaders, principals, and representatives of parents' associations. The
results of these initiatives were: (i) Parents, community and school partnerships in school quality
improvement were established. The most observable success of this establishment was
community participation in school physical facilities and in some extra curricular activities.
However the project did not ensure that schools and communities agreed on quality education;
there is no indication that there is communication or agreement between schools and community
on, for example, how they would define quality and level of students achievement they wanted to
pursue and how to achieve it; (ii) To some degree the project succeded in improving inter-agency
coordination. Dinas P dan K prioritized the provision of facilities (including meeting room for
school cluster activities) to PEQIP schools. Local government (Bupatis) of the project districts
issued a decree of "compulsory learning hours" to support the project effort to improve quality.
5



But it is not clear how this decree was implemented, monitored, and came into effect. And the
project failed to be seen as an integrated effort to improve quality as evidenced by some overlaps
in teacher training and equipment provided by the project and Dinas P dan K.
Consultant services
20.    Three consultant contracts were awarded to support project implementation. These were
to: (i) GTZ/BTE - to support teacher training activities; (ii) MES - to support monitoring and
evaluation, management training and books and learning materials activities; and (iii) DHV/MLD
- to undertake a study on the impact of PEQIP, an in-depth classroom study and a cost analysis.
21.    GTZ/BTE. The consultant contracts were awarded late, with the result that the
consultants in the key area of teacher training entered the project only in the third year. The
consultants gradually established a new pattern of training, which was locally based, used
interactive methods, focussed on improving classroom practice and included a large practical
element. Nevertheless, the technical assistance in teacher training concentrated mainly on the
establishment of a system and lacked a focus on expected outcomes, i.e. the changes in classroom
practice to be expected as a result of the training. This is reflected in the wide dissemination of
the training system but the patchy impact on teaching learning activities. The technical assistance
in the management component provided by the consultants was less effective. The focus of the
management activities was unclear, whether it was on school, cluster or education management,
as were the expected outcemes. In some areas the activities overlapped with those of GTZ/BTE.
In future projects it is expected that specific outcomes for training, whether in teaching or in
management, have to be defined from the start and activities will work towards those outcomes.
22.   MES. MES was responsible for some activities. The first, and main focus of MES
activities, was on monitoring and evaluation. Much of the monitoring focussed on observing
training and classroom activities and provided useful feedback on the organization and efficiency
of these activities. Some of this feedback led to changes in project activities and into the design of
the subsequent quality improvement project, Basic Education (BEP), activities. The second was
monitoring of SAF and producing new guidelines for SAF based on observations during an initial
round of monitoring. Unfortunately these guidelines were not distributed to guide the following
round of SAF. The third was studies on assessment of student performance and book distribution
and textbook needs. The initial stage of the Books and Learning Materials component was on the
development and use of teaching aids. However, it became clear that the development and use of
teaching aids should have been integrated in the teacher training component. As problems in the
distribution of books became evident, the focus of the technical assistance was changed to enable
the consultants to assist with the assessment of needs for books and the distribution of the books.
Data was provided to the CPMU but only partially used in the subsequent provision of books.
23.    DHV/MLD combined their three studies into one and focussed on an evaluation of school
effectiveness. Although there were intensive Bank and GOI efforts to improve quality of the
consultant performance, the final consultant outputs were not satisfactory. The impact assessment
and in-depth studies failed to assess the extent to which project activities had an impact on
schools and teaching and centered on more general school effectiveness issues. In many areas
these studies overlapped with the work of the Monitoring and Evaluation consultants, but failed
to use the data from the monitoring to support their studies.
6



C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
24.    Project Design. Some aspects of the project design combined to reduce the cost-
effectiveness of the project. The design did not appropriately reflect MOEC's institutional
capacity to implement the program. This failure to assess institutional capacity was surprising in
that PEQIP was the first Bank-funded project run by DPE. The scope of activities went beyond
intended focus on quality: improvement of teaching and learning processes and outputs. As the
project design was not based on totally new ideas3, the Government probably had derived enough
lessons from the predecessor projects. Accordingly, the piloting of the PEQIP should have been
designed to be a more equitable, sustainable quality improvement effort. The project design failed
to anticipate some side effects of the project; for example, honorarium payment to teachers for their
participation in KKG could created unexpected impact --could tend to divert attention away from
the professional benefits to be gained by KKG participation and make non-paid post-PEQIP
activities less favorable to them.
25.    Project implementation. Lack of analysis of MOEC's capacity resulted in a slow start of
the first two years of implementation. The delays mostly affected the most critical part of the
project, recruitment of training consultants. Consequently, the project suffered a setback in terms
of quality and efficiency - some training activities were conducted before the needs were
assessed and the material prepared.
26.    Project Impact. To measure the project impacts on students' achievement was difficult
because of the unavailability of adequate baseline data. The baseline study conducted at the early
stage of the project provided a descriptive, contextual characteristics of primary education, including
drop out and repetition rates, but not on status of students' competencies. This could not provide a
basis to measure the project's impact on students' competencies in reading, writing, and arithmetic.
Two studies by DHV and MES4 conducted after some years of project's intervention consistently
reported better achievements of PEQIP schools students as compared to that of non-PEQIP schools.
However, there are no explanation whether these differences were due to PEQIP or whether they
were resulted from the better starting points of most of the PEQIP schools.
D. Project Sustainability
27.    The Government's commitment on the improvement of educational quality reflected in
some ongoing projects. In addition to Basic Education Projects, BEP, (three World Bank loans
plus another one under preparation), the Government fully funds Proyek Pengembangan Sekolah
Dasar (PSD). Through PSD, MOEC is applying PEQIP teacher training approaches in all
provinces, including ex-PEQIP's and BEP's provinces. Funding, to cover KKG activities, will be
made available to all school clusters on a revolving basis, approximately one-quarter of all
clusters receiving funds each year. MOHA (Dinas P dan K) also has some teacher training and
material provision programs. There is no confirmation on how the Government anticipates
unavoidably overlaps between those existing projects in many provinces and benefits from
PEQIP.
3As the Staff Appraisal Report acknowledges, several of PEQIP's salient features, including the regular
KKG meetings, the role of the guru pemandu, and the emphasis on active learning, derive from the Cianjur
Project (later known as SPP/CBSA or ALPS). After the initial pilot phase during the 1970s, the Cianjur
model was extended to sites in six other provinces during the 1980s and early 1990s. Less formal
dissemination, through study visits and seminars, was even wider.
4 (a) DHV did regression analysis on impact of PEQIP interventions to students achievements; (b) MES
assessed and compared students' performance in reading, mathematics, and writing in PEQIP and non-
PEQIP schools
7



28.   Each of the six PEQIP provinces prepared sustainability and dissemination plans using
PSD as a quality improvement vehicle. So far, some of the project provinces have gone beyond
PSD programs. Upon comlpletion of PEQIP, a joint decree was issued between provincial offices
of MOEC and MOHA (Dinas P dan K) concerning the tasks and use of the time of PEQIP tutors.
However, quality assurance and cost-effectiveness measures have not included in sustainability
and dissemination plans.
29.   Financial sustainability. PEQIP, a costly investment, is not financially sustainable.
During its implementation:, it made up less that 0.4% of total primary school enrolments, with
cost per pupil-year about 50 times higher than the development expenditure for quality
improvement by MOEC at the time. This means that to have extended benefits to all pupils at the
same level as that enjoyed by PEQIP participants would have required the commitment of some
US$ 11 billion for a six year project. Even without the current economic crisis, successor quality-
improvement projects could not possibly have sustained such levels of expenditure. Nevertheless,
sustained levels of community participation and high level of participation in school cluster
activities in many project areas suggest that PEQIP approach will be sustainable as these areas
enjoy the project legacy: better trained teachers, head teachers, tutors, better physical facilities,
and strong community appreciation and participation. They are able to self-fund teacher in-
service activities with support from community.
30.   Institutional sustainability. The approach introduced by CBSA/ALPS and further
developed by PEQIP is likely to be maintained and further developed through donor support of
ongoing and future projects. It is expected that this strategy will gain even more support when
Laws No.s 22 and 25 (19991), which allow a radical restructuring of education administrative
structures, are implementedl. Under the new Laws, the authority for most decision-making
conceming educational management and financing will be a body chaired by Bupati. This
structure provides an opportunity to establish new structures within which various stakeholders
in the educational system can work towards common understanding of major issues, out of which
more effective approaches to quality improvement can emerge. Yet, there are two remaining
questions. First concerns the readiness of the government structure for the new responsibilities,
especially to improve quality of education. Secondly concerns about capacity building to improve
quality of education.
E. Bank Performance
31.   The Bank performance in project supervision was barely satisfactory in the initial phase;
notably its failure to empower the implementing agency to move faster in the right direction in
the first two years and to treat the project as a true pilot. Subsequently, the Bank's supervision
and monitoring missions provided constructive recommendations and successfully helped
strengthen the Project's management capacity. The Bank performance was much better in recent
years and responding to the impact of the economic crises and providing the Government with
eighteen months extension and supports to achieve its objective.
F. Borrower Performance
32.   Borrower performance overall during implementation was satisfactory. Project
management capabilities improved during the course of the project. However, too much focus
was placed on procurement and administration and less on the quality management aspects of the
project. Managers were not sufficiently reactive to monitoring findings and studies as well as
specific assessment of readi:ng, writing, and arithmetic in the project schools. The project
management should feedback such findings to tutors and teachers training. Its failure to certify
8



the project tutors and key subject teachers to ensure their availability and commitment in the post-
project period weakens its support to the Government commitment to sustain and disseminate
PEQIP approach.
G. Assessment of Outcomes
33.   Evaluations on the impact of the PEQIP on classroom processes indicated that the project
has improved the quality of teachers and principals. Teachers have better mastery of subject
matter and are more skillful in managing classroom processes. Principals are more capable in
managing their schools. However, there has been only limited success in bringing desired
changes in the classroom process. While there are signs of significant changes in individual
schools and classrooms, the number of schools affected is limited. In many PEQIP schools,
achievement levels in reading, writing, and arithmetic are found to be low. National examination
(Ebtanas) scores which are not necessarily a reliable measure of students' achievements and of
impact of the project were volatile during the project period5.
34.    Some quality management problems identified during preparation remain. The project
was not fully successful in bridging the two ministries responsible for management of primary
education (MOEC and MOHA) so that the problems of uncoordinated administrative support and
budget planning and weak policy, management and monitoring capacity remained. The most
visible indications are: (i) Some overlaps in provision of physical inputs and teacher training
programs; and (ii) Lack of consensus as to the goals of PEQIP among key stakeholders - trainers,
participants, school principals, supervisors, managers.
35.   Until the last year of the project implementation, neither the Bank nor the Government
were fully aware of the importance of building a strong ground for the sustainability and
dissemination of PEQIP approach, that is, to build both individuals and institutional capacities.
Identification and training of core tutor was only done in 1997/98, so they did not have time to
evaluate the effectiveness of the training, finalize certification mechanism as well as provide
institutional support for the functioning of the core tutor in the post PEQIP period.
36.   Based on the achievement of specific objectives specified in the SAR, availability of
plans for sustainability and dissemination and improved project management capacity, the project
has been rated satisfactory, but with some reservations on effectiveness and efficiency for a better
investment in the future. The project should be carefully design to focus on most critical issues,
institutional capacity should be rated properly, and sustainability plan by should be developed,
tested, and agreed during the project course.
H. Future Operation
37.   A consensus has been reached between the Bank and the Government of Indonesia that
the Bank will continue supporting quality improvement efforts in SD (grade I to 6) and SLTP
(grade 7 to 9), expanding access to SLTP, and institutional capacity building in district level
through Junior Secondary Education Project (JSEP) and BEPs6. The BEPs are also aimed to
support local government to get ready to managing the education system under the upcoming
5 For example, data from Kotamadya Padang, Sumatera Barat show the dynamic of mean Ebtanas scores in
the project schools during the project period: It rose from 7,01 to 8,18 between 1991/92 and 1994/95, but
then fell to 5,53 in 1997/98.
6 Three JSE loans target grades 7 to 9 for its intervention in 11 provinces and three BE loans target grades I
to 9 for its intervention in 7 provinces (excluding the forth loan, covers 3 provinces, is under preparation)
9



decentralization. The first BEP (of West Java) is the first Bank educational project which
intensively ensures involvement of local government, district offices of the line ministries and
community in both preparation and implementation. JSEPs and BEPs also develop a mechanism
to cultivate sense of ownership and accountability of school-level community through their direct
participation in implementing some project components such as provision of grants to renovate
school building, purchase books and teaching aids, etc.
I. Key Lesson Learned
Lessons for the Bank
38.   The Bank took the following lessons from PEQIP and reflected in Basic Education
Projects and Back to School Prcgram: (a) School clusters have been able to provide a mechanism
for teachers to mutually support each others in quality improvement effort; (b) Decentralized and
participatory in-service training program are more effective and efficient than centralized,
traditional lecture mode; (c) Participation techniques can enhance community ownership to the
schools; (d) There is a need for close MOEC-MOHA cooperation in managing quality
improvement; (e) Training for the head teachers in the use of grants will influence the success of
the intervention; (f) Decentralizing authority to agencies and community at lower levels (district,
subdistrict, and school) to select scholarship and grants recipients can enhance ownership of both
government agencies and community and help assuring transparency; (g) Professional program
monitoring is essential for scholarship and grants program.
Lessons for the Government
39.   The following are important lessons for the Government: (a) Training is more effective
when it is based on analysis of teacher's needs, rather than on what centrally based trainers or
administrators want to provide; I(b) Training for teachers, head teachers, tutors and supervisors
should be integrated to establish common understanding and purpose; (c) Good head teachers are
instrumental in developing good schools; (d) Supplies of books and materials should be based on
actual needs rather than standard packages provided from the center and should be closely linked
to teacher training programs; (e) Parents participation should extend beyond the provision of
financial and labor to involve in students learning processes; (f) Project management should have
clear objectives and should focus on outputs rather than activities; (g) The functions of the project
management would be more cost effective if decentralized to local level; and (h) Follow up to
monitoring and formative evaluation is an essential part of project management.
10



PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:       Summary of Assessment ... .................................................................  12
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans/Credits ....................................                         13
Table 3:       Project Timetable ....................................                                 14
Table 4:    Loan Disbursement Cumulated, Estimated and Actual .14
Table Sa:   Key indicators For Project Implementation .15
Table 5b:  Indicators for Project Monitoring .18
Table 6a:  Summary Status of Overseas Fellowship .18
Table 6b:  Summary of Equipment Status .19
Table 6c:  Status of Consultant Services .20
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .21
Table 8a: Project Cost .21
Table 8b: Project Financing .21
Table 9:  Status of Legal Covenants .22
Table 10:  Bank Resources: Missions .24
11



Table 1: Summary of assessments
A.   Achievement of Obiectives   Substantial       Partial       Negligible     Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies          gI               E              0i 
Sector policies                 [i-            L0              L               O
Financial Objectives            []              [x]             nI             F]
Institutional development       L               [Li            [               Li
Physical objectives              EL             Li             Li              Li
Poverty reduction                0i             Li             Li              Li
Gender concerns                 Li              Fi             L                xLi
Other social objectives          0i             [x]            CI              Lii
Environmental objectives         Li             Li             Li              Li
Public sector management        EL              Li                             Li
Private sector development      EL              Li             Li              LX
B.   Proiect sustainability          Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
Highly
C.   Bank performance              satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                  Li              Li             Li
Preparation assistance          L               Ei             Li
Appraisal                        Li             Li             SL
Supervision                     Li              Li             L
Highlv
D.   Borrower performance          satisfactorv   Satisfactorv     Deficient
Preparation                     Li               xL            Li
Implementation                  Li              Li              xL
Covenant compliance             Li               3L            Li
Operation (if applicable)       Li              Li 
gkLV                                          Highly
E.   Assessment of Outcome        satisfactorv   Satisfactory    Deficient      unsatisfactory
Achievement objectives           LiCl                          Li              Li
Procurement management           LLi                           L               Li
- 12 -



Table 2: Related Bank LoanslCredits
Loan/Credit title                                  Puroose                               Year of         Status
Avvroval
Preceding operations:
Third Education (First                                                                    1973
textbook-Credit 387)                                                                               Closed
Fifth Education (First
Teacher Training, Loan                                                                    1985
1433)                                                                                              Closed
Following operations
Primary School Teacher                                                                    1992
Development Project      To enhance teaching-leaming process in secondary schools through a        Closed, in ICR
new tertiary level teacher diploma course.                                stage
Book and reading         To improve the quality of basic education by addressing critical factors  1995  Under
development              affecting both the supply of and demand for textbooks.                    implementation
Secondary Teacher
Education Project        To enhance teaching-leaming process in secondary schools through the      Under
improvement of teacher education in 31 teacher training institutes,  1996    implementation
East Java and East Nusa  To expand access to junior secondary education in a cost-effective and
Tenggara Junior          equitable way, improve the quality ofjunior secondary education and  1996  Under
Secondary Education      strengthen the management of the education system at all levels in East
project (Loan 4042-IND)    Java and East Nusa Tenggara provinces                                   implementation
To expand access to junior secondary education in a cost-effective and
Central Indonesia Junior    equitable way, improve the quality of junior secondary education and
Secondary Education      strengthen the management of the education system at all levels in  1996  Under
project (Loan 4042-IND)    Central Java, DI Yogyakarta, West Kalimantan, and Central               implementation
Kalimantan provinces
Sumatera Junior          To expand access to junior secondary education in a cost-effective and    Under
Secondary Education      equitable way, improve the quality of junior secondary education and  1996    implementation
project (Loan 4095-[ND)    strengthen the management of the education system at all levels in DI
Aceh, West Sumatera, Jambi, South Sumatera, and Lampung provinces
West Java Basic          To expand access to junior secondary education in a cost-effective and  1998  Under
Education project      equitable way, improve the quality of primary and junior secondary        implementation
(Loan 4308-IND)          education and strengthen the management of the education system at all
levels in West Java provinces.
prjectLoan sicE6ducation   To expand access to junior secondary education in a cost-effective and  1999
Credit 3189 IND)         equitable way, improve the quality of primary and junior secondary        Under
Credit 3189-IND)       education and strengthen the management of the education system at all    implementation
levels in North Sumatera, Riau, and Bengkulu provinces.
Sulawesi and Eastern
Island Basic Education   To expand access to junior secondary education in a cost-effective and
project (Loan 4455 and   equitable way, improve the quality of primary and junior secondary  1999  Under
Credit 31 88-IND)        education and strengthen the management of the education system at all    implementation
levels in South Sulawesi and Maluku provinces.                            Under preparation
Basic Education project IV   To expand access to junior secondary education in a cost-effective and
equitable way, improve the quality of primary and junior secondary
education and strengthen the management of the education system at all
levels in East Java, West Sumatera and South Sumatera provinces.
- 13 -



Table 3: Project Timetable
STEPS IN PROJECT CYCLE                            DATE PLANNED           ACTUAL DATE
Initial EPS                                                      02/08/89               01/10/90
Identification                                                   --                     02/12/90
Preparation                                                      --                     05/21/90
Second EPS                                                       08/01/90               09/10/90
Preappraisal                                                                             10/01/90
Final EPS                                                         11/24/90               11124/90
Appraisal                                                         01/01/91              01101/91
Yellow Cover SAR                                                 03/24/91               03/25/91
Docs. To RVP                                                     04/28/91               02/29/91
Negotiations                                                      05118/91              05120/91
Board Approval                                                   07/12/91               07/12/91
Signing                                                                                 18105/92
Effectiveness                                                                                                 ,
Project Completion                                               30/09/97               30/03/99
Loan Closing                                                     30/09/97               30/03/99
Table 4: Loan Disbursement Cumulated Estimated and Actual
(US millions)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Appraisal Estimate                   2.50     6.70    14.40    25.30    33.90    37.00
Actual                          -    2.61     5.67     9.24    14.80    22.49    26.46    28.32
Actual as % of estimate                 1        8        6        6        7
Date of final disbursement: 25 August 1999.
After refund of special account, cancellation of USD 2,68 million is anticipated. An amount of US$ 6
million was cancelled in August 1998.
- 14 -



Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key SAR Implementation               Expected Outputs                           Achievements
Indicators
Improvement Of Teaching And
Learning Processes
I. Teacher Professional       Number of teachers trained per district,   A number of tutors, guru pemandii, principals,
Development Program           frequency and duration of training.   and supervisors were trained. In the first three
years training, training for those of core clusters'
were conducted centrally by CPMU (some were in
penataran mode). By that time, the consultants
were not yet in place and training material and
methods were not yet fully developed.
Decentralized training by the consultants started in
the fourth year of the Project.
Teachers use a variety of instructional    Teachers use a variety of instructional methods.
methods suited to the level of students    But improvement was evident mainly in stronger
and draw upon a range of source      subject content knowledge; much less so in more
material to support their teaching.  effective pedagogy. Classroom process were
more teaching-centered rather than learning-
centered. Poor questioning techniques, improper
use of test, lack of attention to individual
students, and limited use of equipment are still
prevalent.
2. Enhancing Promotion        Provision of opportunities for the    The Project proposed a career/promotional path for
Opportunities for Primary     promotion of primary teachers.       teachers: Teacher - Pemandu i Tutor -
Teachers                                                            Principal - Supervisor. Although there are few
cases where this path is applied, there is no
evidence that this proposal has been officially
accepted or guaranteed to be adopted by both
MOEC and Dinas Pdan K in the six PEQIP
provinces.
3. Development and Supply of   Provision of guideline and survey on  A survey was conducted on book distribution,
Better Quality Books and      books, learning materials and         and guidelines for writing effective learning
Educational Materials.        publications.                         materials for primary schools were compiled.
There were several other guidelines on (a) the
organisation and use of libraries; (b) newsletter
production; (c) low-cost learning materials
development and use.
Two project-specific quarterlies were produced:
MUTU and DEDIKASI. There is no report on
analysis of the usefulness and contribution of
these quarterlies to improvement of teaching and
learning.
Provision Of Special Assistance
Funds
400 schools had been selected as recipient
1. Provision of Special       Establishment of SAF based on survey    schools in NTT and West Sumatra, funds had
Assistance Funds for Under-   of school condition in NTr and West   been transferred through the agreed mechanism
served Schools                Sumatra; development of criteria for the   to those schools. Monitoring on the use of SAFS
selection of target schools; and     was conducted to supervise the appropriate use
development of channelling mechanism    of funds. Principals of the target schools had had
of funds, monitoring and supervision  special training on the management and use of
plan, and training program.          funds.
- 15 -



Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
Key SAR Implementation               Expected Outputs                           Achievements
Indicators               _
Review of efficiency and effectiveness of the
program suggested: (i) Lack of objectivity in
selection process employed to distribute the SAF
grants; (ii) Insufficient training for the principals
of the school recipients on how to prioritize
needs in respect to quality improvements; and
(iii) inefficient fund channeling mechanism; and
(iv) limited monitoring by the Government
2. Expansion of SAFs Scheme    Study and start-up activities for the  In response to the financial crisis, the expansion
expansion and dissemination of SAFs  and dissemination of SAF was cancelled. SAF
scheme to the other four Project     was then integrated to the nation-wide crisis-
provin ces.                          response school grants and fellowship program.
Enhancement Of Capacity To
Manage Quality Improvement
Enhancement of Capacity to    Task analysis and job descriptions for  No report available
Manage Quality Improvement    MOEC and Dinas P dan K in West
Programs                      Sumatra and NTT completed.
Key staff training                   Management training was given to principals
and sub-district education managers, supervisors
and principals. Inclusion of principals and
supervisors in teacher training activities helped
to enlist their support. Collaboration with sub-
district education officials and guidance of
school monitoring consultants during site visits
had a similar effect on increasing their
appreciation of education quality improvement.
Overseas training: 71 staff (compared to SAR
target 98) of the six Project provinces and DPE
participated in short course programs:
Primary school management (Univ. of Western
Australia, 24 persons); Teaching and Learning
(Curtin University, 23 persons); Measurement
and Evaluation (Curtin University, 24 persons).
Report on how the program benefit both the
Project management and primary education
management in general is not available.
Overseas training: 71 staff (compared to SAR
target 98) of the six Project provinces and DPE
participated in short course programs:
Primary school management (Univ. of Western
Australia, 24 persons); Teaching and Learning
(Curtin University, 23 persons); Measurement
and Evaluation (Curtin University, 24 persons).
Report on how the program benefit both the
Project management and primary education
management in general is not available.
- 16 -



Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
Key SAR Implementation               Expected Outputs                           Achievements
Indicators
The RAPBS (a simple school financial planning)
was introduced to principals of the Project
schools (including SAF schools).
A number of guidelines were produced on (a)
cluster management; (b) school management; (c)
classroom management; (d) better teaching and
learning practices; (e) school monitoring for use
by education managers and supervisors; (f
monitoring block-grants to under-served
schools; and (g) practical means of promoting
Community Participation
Improving financial planning  (i) Consolidated annual presentation of   No report available
and budgetary processing      sources and funds; (ii) Establishment of
regular national reviews of primary
education budget and expenditures -
annual inter-agency review meeting; and
(iii) Survey in West Sumatra and NTT
to determine schools below standard
Improving institutional       Completion (and dissemination)of study   The impact assessment and in-depth studies
capabilities.                 to measure the impact of SPP/CBSA on   failed to assess the extent to which project
school community improvement.        activities had had an impact on schools and
teaching and centered on more general school
effectiveness issues
Table 5b: Indicators for Project Monitoring
Key SAR Interventions            Indicators of Achievement                        Achievements
In-service training for  a.  Teachers understand the curriculum well  Classroom observations indicated that
teachers and professional    enough to help children learn actively.  improvement was evident mainly in stronger
support through          b.  Teachers select from a variety of teaching  subject content knowledge; much less so in
development and teacher      methods and materials to suit children's  more effective pedagogy. Insufficient attention
groups                       interest and abilities, and to maximize use of  to individual students, way-one teaching
teaching time.                         methods, poor questioning and testing
c.  Teachers use of variety of ways to assess    techniques are prevalent classroom pictures.
children learning.
In-service training for  a.  Principals allow time to actively supervise    Majority of principals put more attention on
principals and for           teachers' work and children's progress and    administrative aspects of teachers' works such as
professional support         hold regular meeting relating to classroom  availability -rather than substance - of teaching
through school               practice.                               plans. Some not even checked the availability.
development activities and
principals groups        b.  Teachers have money to buy or produce   Training on RAPBS for principals had enable the
classroom teaching and learning materials.   schools to allocate some funds for such activities.
c.  Teachers have access to reading and    The objectives to provide teachers with access to
reference materials and children have  supporting materials and students with sufficient
sufficient textbooks to enable active  textbooks was achieved after some procurement
learning.                              delays..
d.  Tutors work as a team to plan and conduct    Training programs hold by CPMU and PPMU
training programs for teachers in active  Tutors played active roles during KKG meetings
learning approach                      and during classroom visits. However, as it is
- 17 -



Table 5b: Indicators for Project Monitoring (continued)
Key SAR Interventions             Indicators of Achievement                          Achievements
reflected in most classrooms, the very nature of
"active leaming" were not fully understood by the
tutors.
In-service training for tutor   a.  Tutor follow up training by working with  In compliance.
and professional              participants in real classrooms and at teacher
development through           groups to develop teaching ideas.
activities at teachers group   b.  Tutor prepare materials for use in training
and resource centers.         an d for extension work in classrooms and
teachers groups as follow up to training.
c.  Tutor use feedback from school visits and
teachers meeting to plan appropriate
training.
In-service training for   a.  SLpervisors visit schools regularly to work    In compliance. The training programs for
school supervisor             with principals and staff, to advise and  trainers and those for managers (principals,
monitor the implementation of active    supervisors, project officers) remained almost
teaching and learning methods.          entirely separate. Although the diagnosis came
b.  Supervisor identified training requirements   late and the modification was only applied
of teachers, principals and advisory teachers,  during the extension period, this modified
set realistic training goals and monitor the  program helped head-teachers and supervisors
zimpact of training.                    to become more aware of tutors' role in helping
c.  Supervisor coordinate planning and conduct  teachers, and how they could function as
of regular meetings of teachers groups,  professional partners.
principals groups and tutors programs.
In-service training for   d.  Advisory teachers work with teachers in  In compliance. Advisory teachers regularly met
advisory teachers and         their own schools to strengthen use of active   with teachers in KKG meetings.
professional supports from    teaching and leaming methods in their own
tutor and supervisors         subject areas.
through resource center   e.  Advisory teachers conduct teachers groups
activities.                   using a variety of methods and materials.
In service training for   f   District and sub district managers set goal    Not fully in compliance. A lack of consensus
education managers in         for implementing active teaching learning  among key stakeholders as to the goals of
planing for quality           and quality improvement, plan action and  PEQIP was evident. We encountered several
improvements and              monitor the impact through a variety of  conceptions (implicit or explicit) as to what
establishing and active       means.                                   constitutes a 'good' school. For some,
professional support system   g.  Organize training for teachers, principals  physical inputs are most important; for others,
and advisory teachers and programs for  outputs matter most. 'Process' definitions,
community participation.                focussing on the effectiveness of teaching and
h.  Allocate resources to fund in-service    learning in the classroom, were less commonly
training and professional support groups.  shared.
Table: 6 (a) Summary Status Of Overseas Fellowships
______________   Age~~~c~  M-A  Nati ege    M A   Non Dgftee  _____
a. Management in              DPE                      43            -           24        University of Western
Primary School           (CPCIJ)                                                        Australia
b. Teaching Learning          DPE                      25            -           23        Curtin University
Process in Primary       (CPCtJ)
School
c. Measurement and            DPE                      30            -            24       Curtin University
Evaluation Specialist   (CPCtJ)
Total                                  98           -            71
- 18 -



Table 6 (b): Summary of Equipment Status
No.            Type of BookslEquipment                                Actual
SAR Target 1/      No. of Books/       No. of Recipients
Equipment
A  Provided by CPMU
I Bulletin Dedication (editions I-IV)                               250,000 editions      890 schools
2 Bulletin Mutu (editions I-IV)                                    2,446,100 editions     890 Schools
3 Books on basic competence, for students                           288,744 editions      890 Schools
4 Books on basic competence, for teachers                            16,000 editions      890 Schools
5 Teacher manuals                                                   100,000 editions      890 Schools
6 Civil education (students and teachers)                           213,183 editions      890 Schools
7 Supplementary textbooks (students)                               1,560,894 editions     890 Schools
8 Library books                                                     444,000 editions      890 Schools
9 Teacher manuals (6 subjects)                                      587,800 editions      890 Schools
10 Teacher manuals, Curriculum 1994                                   60,000 editions      890 Schools
11 Reference books (teachers)                                         47,654 sets          890 Schools
12 LRC equipment                                                          94 sets           18 Core schools
13 Stencil machine                                                        54 sets
14 Type writer                                                           270 sets          108 Core schools
15 Bahasa Indonesia kits                                               8,118 sets          890 Schools
16 Mathematics kits                                                    7,118 sets          890 Schools
17 Natural science kits                                                5,760 sets          890 Schools
18 Social science kits                                                 7,218 sets          890 Schools
19 Sport equipment                                                     4,248 sets          890 Schools
20 Performing arts equipment                                           3,888 sets          890 Schools
21 Power Tool sets                                                       110 sets          108 Core schools
22 Drumband                                                               54 sets          108 Core schools
23 IPBA teaching aids                                                  2,700 sets          890 Schools
24 Textbooks                                                        2,062,109 editions     890 schools
Provided bv Provinces (PPMU)
25 Natural Science kits                                                 4,618 sets          890 Schools
26 Social Science Kits                                                  5,050 sets          890 Schools
27 Handicraft Kits                                                      2,025 sets          890 Schools
28 Performing art Kits                                                    848 sets          890 schools
29 Tool Kits for Local content curriculum                                 680 sets          108 Core schools
30 Bahasa Indonesia Kits                                                2,475 sets          890 Schools
31 Mathematics Kits                                                     2,259 sets          890 Schools
32 Natural Science kits                                                 4,618 sets          890 Schools
33 Social Science Kits                                                  5,050 sets          890 Schools
34 Handicraft Kits                                                      2,025 sets          890 Schools
35 Performing art Kits                                                    848 sets          890 Schools
36 Tool Kits for Local content curriculum                                 680 sets          108 Core school
37 Tool Kit for teaching aids making                                    1,098 sets          108 Core school
38 Bahasa Indonesia Kits                                                1,582 sets          890 Schools
39 Library books                                                     1,153,487 editions     890 Schools
40 Reference books                                                    136,747 editions      890 Schools
41 Encyclopaedia (Bahasa Indonesia)                                        45 editions          Core schools
42 Encyclopaedia                                                           54 editions
43 Sport equipment                                                         72 sets
44 Laboratory chemicals                                                  1,280 sets         108 Core schools
45 TV, Video, Camera Movie, Tustel, Tele Lens                              78 sets
45 Sound System                                                            44 sets
46 Vehicle (cars)                                                          25 units             CPMU and
PPMUs
49 Furniture/Book shelf                                                 9,138 units         890 Schools
50 Type writer                                                            279 units         108 Core schools
51 Stencil Machine                                                         65 units
-19 -



Table 6 (b): Summary of Equipment Status (continued)
No.             Type of Books/Equipment                                       Actual
SAR Target 1/         No. of Books/    No. of Recipients
.. ______________ _ .Equipment
52  White Board                                                                    171 units
53  Calculator                                                                      90 units
54  Air Conditioner                                                                 14 units
55  Computer and Printer                                                           42 sets
56  Computer Supplies                                                               19 sets
57  Copy machine                                                                    51 units
58  Motor-bike                                                                     41 units
59  Camera Lamp (Lighting)                                                          40 units
60  Slide Projector and screen                                                      15 units
61  Video Panasonic                                                                 10 units
1/ Information is not available
Table: 6 (c) Status Or Consultant Services
__   Teacher                  To support the project  DPE      USD          USD                        141 p (intl.)
Professional             by providing technical           987,157.77   987,155.23                    and
Development              assistance for                                                             183 p
(GTZ in                  improving content and                                                      (nat)
association with         organization of the
PT. Bina Tri             primary school leacher
Dasa Eka)                in-service trainiig
system, and
introducing them in six
_______  provinces.
2.   Studies:                  To support the project  DPE     USD          USD                        58 p (ind.)    3 studies:
DHV +                    in studies to assess the         416,913.26   415,196.53               and 79 p (nat.)  * impact
PT Mitra                 impact of project                                                                        of
Lingkungan               interventions and to                                                                     PEQIP
Dinamika                 carry out research into
specific issues relating                                                             * in-depth
to improving the                                                                        study
management of the                                                                     * cost
primary education                                                                       analysis
system.
3.   Baseline study           To provide the Project
(LPMP)                   management witis
baseline data
4.   Management of            To support the project           USD          USD                      73 p (intl.) and
primary school,          by providing technical           1,140,359.2  1.041,949                 258 p. (nat.)
Project                  assistance for                   2            IDR
monitoring and           management, prcject                           3,671,626,0
evaluation,              monitoring and                                00
Books, learning          evaluation, book,
materials and            learning material and
publication              publication.
(PT. Manggala
Epsilon Sigma)
-20 -



Table 7: Studies Included In Project
Study                 Process as Defined at            SAR                      Status
Appraisal/Redefined
Impact of PEQIP, an in-depth    To assess impact of the                             Not fully satisfactory.
classroom study and a cost      project on students learning
analysis (by DHV/MLD)           and project cost
effectiveness.
Assessment of needs for books
and the distribution of the books.   To find solutions for                          The study was completed
problems in book quality                            but the data was only
and distribution                                    partially used in
subsequent book
___ _ __   distribution.
Table 8(a) Project Cost
Category o                Appraisal Estimate (US$)*)       Actual/Latest Estimate (US$)*)
(1) Equipment and educational                          9,000,000                         8,568,874
materials
(2) Consultants' services                              3,400,000                         4,647,648
(3) Studies                                            4,591,661                         3,387,894
(4) Fellowship and training                            11,200,00                         9,806,319
(5) Operating costs (Project                           2,268,339                          1,609,435
management and administration)
(6) SAFs to under served schools                        540,000                           290,172
Unallocated                                               0
Total                      31,000,000                        28,310,343
The Loan agreement was amnended as of August 26,1998, accommodating cancellation of US$ 6 million and reallocation.
Balance as of March 30, 2000: (US$2,672,208 undisbursed and US$ 17,449.32 pending refund)
Table 8(b): Project Financing
A  ralsal Estimate (US$M)        ActualLatest Estimate (US$M)
Source                 Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign     Total
_ ___________________________ .Cost       Cost                   Cost        Cost
IBRD                                 20.3       16.7         37
Domestic Contribution                9.2         7.7        16.9
Total                                29.5       24.4        53.9
- 21 -



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised       Description of        Comments
Type     Status   fulfillment   fulfill-     Covenant
date      ment
date
3448-IND    5.1      MI         CD        10/26/92    04/21/93   Carry out the Project   Start dates delayed
in accordance with an  due to delay in TA
Action Plan for     procurement.
primary education
policy and program
development
satisfactory to the
Bank.
5.2      1          CD       10/01/92     10/05/93   Appoint SPP/CBSA    In the first two years
tutors in SPP/CBSA    the training was
provinces.          conducted centrally
by CPMU without
training consultants.
5.3      M3         C        10/01-each             Annual project
year com-             implementation plan
mencing               and proposed budget
1992
5.4(a)    Ml        C        10/01-each             Carry out (in
year com-             consultation with the
mencing               Bank) annual
1993                  progress review of
the implementation
of the Project
C        03/31/95    10/31/95   Carry out(in
consultation with the
Bank) mid-term
progress review of
the implementation
of the Project.
5.4(b)    Ml        C'P      03/05/93               Submit to the Bank
Project reviews and
progress reports
taking into account
performance targets
established by the
Borrower for each
part of the Project
5.5(a)    Ml        C'D      12/30/95               Complete a study on   The study helped
the establishment of   identifying target
SAF.                areas/schools
5.5(b)   M2         CD       05/10/94               Train principals of    The training was not
under-served schools  fully effective; many
in accordance with    principals were
training plan       unable to prioritize
satisfactory to the  the use of fund for
Bank.               quality improvement
effort.
- 22 -



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement  Section   Covenant   Present    Original    Revised       Description of       Comments
Type      Status   fulfillment   fulfill-      Covenant
date       ment
date
5.5(c)    Ml         CD       05/10/94               Establish SAF in
(i)                                                  accordance with the
recommendations of
the study referred in
5.5(a)
5.5(c)    MI         CD       05/10/94               Adopt and put into
(ii)                                                 effect policies and
guidelines
satisfactory to the
Bank to maintain and
operate SAF.
5.6      I           C        10/26/92               Maintain the CPMU
and PPMUs with
funds and staff in
accordance with
criteria, procedures
and data base
satisfactory to the
Bank.
5.7(a)    I          CD       06/30/93     05/10/94   By June 30, 1993,   Upon completion
identify and select  of study (Jan.
under-served schools,  1995), SAF
from amongst its     procedures
primary schools, in    implemented by
accordance with      August 1995
criteria, procedures
and data base(s)
satisfactory to the
Bank.
5.7(b)    I         CD        04/30/93     05/10/94   By April each year,
commencing 1993,
furnish to the Bank
an annual training
plan for principals of
under-served schools
satisfactory to the
Bank.
- 23 -



Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of   Month/Year   No. of   Days    Specialized Staff Skills  Implementa  Development   Types of Problem
Project                Persons    in          represented       -tion Status    Objectives
Cycle                       _   Field
Through        11/89        2        19    Educ. Spec.; Economist.
Appraisal
Educ. Spec.; Economist;
02/90        6       10   Instructional Mat. Spec.;
Teacher Trg. Spec.;
Prof Develop. Spec.;
Public Admin. Spec.
Educ. Spec.; Project
Impl. Spec.; Finance &
Budget. Monitoring &
Evaluation; Functional
Career Systems
10/90          8      10      Administration;
Teacher Professional
Development and
Curriculum; Books and
Reading.
Appraisal    01/91       7        21       Architect; Prov. Admin.;
through                                    Mgmt; Economist; Staff
Board                                      Develop. Curriculum.;
Approval                                   Printed. Educ. Materials
Spec.
Supervision  08/92       3         14      Educ. Spec.;            2           2             Management
Disbursement Officer;
Procurement Officer.
01/93       5         18      Educ. Spec.; Mgmt. Trg.  2          2              Implementation
Research;                                         delays
Institut. Develop; Proj.
Implementation Spec.
05/93       1         7       Operations Officer;                 2             Implementation
Education Specialist;                             delays
Procurement Specialist
08/93       3         12      Operations Officer;                 2              Implementation
Education Specialist.                             delays
Education Specialist;
Operations Officer.
Education Specialist;
03/94       2         8       Operations Officer;
Economist.
Economist; Operations
Officer.
- 24 -



Table 10 Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
10/94       2          11      Operations Officer;                     2             Implementation
Education Specialist                                 delays
Operations Officer;
Education Economist;
06/95        4         9        Education Specialist.                  2             Imbalances in
distribution of
Operations Officer;                                  textbooks
Education Specialist.
Operations Officer
08/95        3         7
11/95       3          1 1
05/96        3         11       Operations Officer                     S
Operations Officer
10/96       3          9                                               S             Imbalances in
distribution of
books
07/97        2         9                                               S             Further
adjustments in
Teacher
Development
Program;
Continuation of
complete
textbook supply
in all PEQIP
Schools
04/98        2         9                                               S             Counterpart funds
reduced due to
economic crisis
02/99                  6
Completion   7/99         8         23       Operations Officer;
Education Specialists
- 25 -



ANNEX I
Indonesia
Primary Education Quality Improvement Project
Aide Memoire
Project Implementation Completion Mission
July 26 to August 18, 1999
A. Introduction
1. A Project Completion Mission was carried out between 26m July and August 18th 1999.
Members of the team were: Susiana Iskandar (RSI; Team Leader), Jerry Strudwick (RSI,
Education Specialist) and Rosfita Roesli (RSI; Operation Officers); Jazlin Ebenezer, Wahjudi,
and Anthony Somerset (Education Specialists, World Bank Consultants). Mariani, Romlan and
Budiman (MOEC) joined the mission. Field visits were paid to PEQIP implementation sites in
Sumatra Barat between July 28'h and August 4th (Iskandar, Roesli, Ebenezer and Mariani);
Sulawesi Utara between July 28* and August I st (Wahjudi, Somerset, Romlan) and to DI
Yogyakarta between Augusi 3rd and 1 0 (Iskandar, Wahjudi, Budiman and Somerset). Jerry
Strudwick assessed the Special Assistance Fund component. The mission wish to thank
officials from MOEC and MOHA, school supervisors, principals, PEQIP trainers, and classroom
teachers for the time they gave us, for their unfailing courtesy in answering our numerous
questions, and for the many insights they provided us.
2. Since this is the final mission, the Aide Memoire is written to capture the overall impression on
the project as well as drawing from findings of previous supervisions on the project.
3. In summary, the mission concluded that the project has been reasonably successful in terms of
achieving its objectives stipulated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), i.e., to introduce policies
and mechanisms to improve primary education quality aimed at raising student achievement and
completion rates. The Project has successfully established and disseminated school cluster-based
approach for teacher professional development program. However, the mission identified some
issues which will require resolution in future quality improvement programs. The following
paragraphs detail the Project's achievements, concerns and recommendations as well as its
sustainability and dissemination issues.
B. Project Achievements, Concerns and Recommendations
4. Training of trainers and managers. For the most part, the trainers (tutors and key subject
teacher) in the clusters we visited were well selected. They have received intensive training,
which has clearly been instrumental in strengthening their competence. However, as our
classroom observations indicated, this improvement was evident mainly in stronger subject
content knowledge. Much less so in more effective pedagogy. Some issues account for it:
5. Effectiveness of training modes. The Project had trained targeted trainers (tutors and key subject
teachers), managers and other key staff. The mission concludes that although the programs were
often effective in transmitting subject content knowledge, they were much less successful in
bringing about permanent changes in practice. The training program should have modeled the
desired changes in practice. Key subject teacher and tutors are unlikely to become committed to
interactive, two-way approaclhes to pedagogy if the courses in which these approaches are
introduced are themselves run in a one-way, top-down fashion.
-26 -



6. Linkages between the key subject teacher and tutor training programs. As already noted, the
initial traditional training of the two main groups of PEQIP trainers - tutors and key subject
teacher - was carried out at different sites in Jakarta, for the tutors, and the various national
subject centers (PPPG) for the key subject teacher. In consequence, effective linkages between
the two programs were difficult to establish - an important matter given that tutors and key
subject teacher are the key local-level trainers, and work together during KKG meetings.
7. Linkages between programs for trainers and programs for managers. Similarly, traditional
training programs for trainers and those for managers (principals, supervisors, project officers)
remained almost entirely separate. While the learning needs of trainers and managers differ in
many respects, the two groups are nevertheless partners in a shared enterprise. Without
agreement as to common goals and common approaches, neither group can function effectively.
Training programs should reflect this mutual interdependence, by providing opportunities for
trainers and managers to work together.
8. International consultants. The international consultant training team (from GTZ) did not begin
functioning until the third year of the Project. By this time, initial training for the main groups
of PEQIP trainers was well on the way to completion. In consequence, the impact of the
international team on the initial training of trainers was largely confined to clusters which
entered PEQIP during the second (dissemination) phase.
9. Establishment of the teachers' cluster meetings (Kelompok Kerja Guru, or KKG). The
KKGs constitute the key grassroots organization in the PEQIP teacher development system.
From our discussions with teachers and from the three meetings we were able to attend, it is
clear that the KKG groups have in general provided useful help to the teachers. They should
continue to play a pivotal role in future quality improvement activities. It became apparent
during our field visits: (a) KKG meetings often tend to focus on filling in gaps in the teachers'
knowledge of specific curriculum topics, and pay insufficient attention to the development of
strategies suited to teaching the topics; (b) Teachers questioning techniques need improvement.
In nearly all cases, we observed that only low-demand questions were asked: the questions could
be answered simply by recalling a piece of factual information; (c) At some schools we were
told that KKG meetings were tending to become repetitive, and hence boring. To ensure that
KKG meetings remain relevant to the learning needs of the participants, core tutors should
conduct refresher programs for KKG trainers.
10. Physical Inputs. PEQIP has relied heavily on physical inputs as a means for raising educational
quality. This approach did not work well. Some issues were identified: (a) Low level of
usefulness because of the complexity of some equipment and the teachers were not sufficiently
trained; (b) Duplication. In many if not most schools, the PEQIP kit was not the only science kit
the school had received. In three core school there were two additional kits, one pre-dating
PEQIP by about ten years, the other by about five years.
11. Library supply policies. During the Project, library supply policies were determined centrally,
and thus took little account of the varied needs of different schools in different localities. It was
notable that, in most of the schools where we asked, librarians and class teachers had little idea
as to which titles were most popular with the students. It seems likely that their lack of interest
stemmed, in part at least, from the fact that they took little if any part in deciding which library
books should be ordered for their school. Nevertheless it was evident that story books suited to
the reading skills and interests of primary-age pupils were in evidence among recent
- 27 -



acquisitions, although more titles for the lower primary grades are still needed. Story books play
a key role in encouraging children's interest in reading, and hence in promoting the development
of language skills. At one l'EQIP school, the library had recently received five copies of 20
different story books: far more useful than 20 copies of five titles. It was clear from the
evidence of wear that the books were being well used. At another PEQIP school, in Padang,
West Sumatra, cooperation between the teachers and the parents' organization has led to the
purchase of an additional set of children's reading books. The books are colorfully illustrated,
and have proved highly popular with the students.7
12. Management Training. School Principals. There were some evidences of improved managerial
capabilities of the principals of the Project schools: (i) better, healthier school physical
environment; (ii) better supervision on teacher works; (iii) more comprehensive annual school
budget plan; and (iv) more community participation. Principals of the core schools were able to
effectively managed the clusters. We found some principals who provided themselves as
mentors of principals/tutors of some non-project school clusters. Provincial Education Staff.
The Project sent some provincial education staff to Australia to learn about effective school
management (for a short course). However, there was no strong evidence on how the Project
benefited of such training. Only few graduates who really worked with the Project. Due to
promotion, most of them were not in anymore in touch with the Project and/or education
management.
13. School-community relationships. Our observations in the field suggested that these initiatives
have had their greatest success in promoting community participation in the development and
maintenance of the schools' physical facilities. We find some cases where the community
(mainly through the parents' organization) is also contributing to the learning environment of the
school. But in the localities we visited it was uncommon for school-community initiatives to
have had a direct impact on leaching and learning in the core curriculum subjects. In some
schools, there seemed to be a perception that teaching and learning were matters for the teachers
and principal alone, and that community involvement was inappropriate. In future quality-
improvement programs, initiatives aimed at strengthening school-community relationships
should stress the importance of mutual support and community involvement should extend to
strengthening the school's learning environment, as well as to improving its physical facilities.
C. Sustainability and dissemintation
14. The sustainability of PEQIP within the Project areas, and its suitability as a model for
dissemination to non-Project areas, are closely linked issues. Suitability for dissemination is
especially important in the case of PEQIP. In recognition of the vast scale of primary education
in Indonesia, PEQIP did not attempt to bring about change uniformly throughout the school
system, but instead was set up essentially as a pilot project, working in a few restricted areas. As
already noted, PEQIP remained very much a pilot project even after the number of participating
schools had been roughly doubled during the 'dissemination' phase, from 1995 onwards. Its
direct impact was limited to only about 900 schools, or well under 1% of all primary schools in
the country.
15. Dissemination levels. At least four major dissemination levels can be identified, each of which
will require somewhat different approaches: (a) Level 1: Dissemination within PEQIP sub-
districts. In the selected subdistrict, the Project was implemented in only three school clusters
7 At the same school, a low-cost audio-visual studio has been constructed, and equipped with a variety of
locally-made video cassettes, including one on Padang airport and another on local daily life.
- 28 -



(gugus), each of which consisted typically of eight schools. Schools which fell outside these
clusters did not participate.8; (b) Level 2: Dissemination from PEQIP to non-PEQIP subdistrict
within PEQIP districts (kabupaten). In all participating kabupaten, only a minority of
subdistrict were included in the Project; (c) Level 3: Dissemination from PEQIP to non-PEQIP
kabupaten within PEQIP provinces. In all participating provinces except DI Aceh, the Project
was confined to one kabupaten only; and (d) Level 4: Dissemination from PEQIP to non-PEQIP
provinces. Only six of the 27 provinces in the Republic participated in the Project.
16. It is evident that, at Level 1, much informal dissemination can be carried out through local-level
initiative. Primary schools within a single subdistrict are managed by a single team, and
distances between schools in the PEQIP and non-PEQIP clusters are usually short. But at the
higher levels, increasingly complex administrative arrangements, and more substantial
expenditures, will be needed. The formal aspects of the PEQIP model - and also, to some
extent, subject-content knowledge - can certainly be communicated through large meetings at
central places. But building understanding of effective approaches to teaching and learning is a
more complex matter. Unless teachers have opportunities for two-way dialogue with their
trainers and colleagues in small-group meetings, major improvements in classroom practice are
unlikely. Hence effective dissemination will require a judicious combination of large-scale
meetings and small-scale workshops.
17. Through Proyek Pengembangun Sekolah Dasar (PSD), MOEC has undertaken a commitment to
apply PEQIP approaches in all provinces of the Republic. Funding will be made available to all
school clusters on a revolving basis, approximately one-quarter of all clusters receiving funds
each year.9 The Project will train core trainers from the 21 non-PEQIP provinces, including
head of curriculum section in Primary Education and Secondary Education divisions and some
selected teachers. From the information available to us, it is unclear to what extent, and in what
ways, the skills built up through PEQIP will be used in the PSD dissemination process. We are
concerned that the training cascade may be too long: unless effective training of the local-level
training teams (key subject teacher, tutors) is provided, the impact on teaching and learning in
the classroom is likely to be minimal.
18. The mission concluded that (a) Strategies for disseminating PEQIP approaches through PSD
require careful planning to ensure that beneficial effects on teaching and learning in the
classroom are achieved. Different approaches will be needed for local-level dissemination and
more widespread dissemination; (b) Effective dissemination will require a judicious combination
of large-scale meetings, for communicating the formal aspects of the PEQIP model, and small-
scale workshops, for the development of teaching-learning strategies; and (c) In implementing
these dissemination strategies, the skills of local-level trainers and resource persons (key subject
teacher, tutors, school principals and supervisors) developed during PEQIP should be fully
utilized.
19. Costs and sustainability. Measured in relation to the number of primary school pupils
benefited, PEQIP was a high-cost project. Excluding SAF disbursements, the total Project cost
amounted to $ US 44.14 millionl. Using PEQIP school enrollment statistics for 1995-96 only
as basis to estimate the Project cost per pupil, we came to aggregate estimate of US$ 63.4 per
8 Since 1995, schools in all parts of the Republic, non-PEQIP as well as PEQIP, have been grouped into
approximately 22,000 clusters.
9 Pedoman Pengunaan Dan Mekanisme Pengiriman Dana Bantuan Operasional Gugus Melalui Sekolah
Dasar Inti. Directorat Pendidikan Dasar, MOEC, 1998-99, pp 1-2.
' This amount consisted of US$ 30.46 million Loan and US$ 13.68 million GOI counterpart budget.
- 29 -



pupil-year (or US% 56.9 excluding project components non directly related to cllassroom
processes such as evaluatiorn study (by DHV), overseas training, and project monitoring).
Excluding PEQIP costs, the MOEC primary education development budget (DIP) for the year
1995-96 amounted to about Rp 2,748 per pupil, equivalent to about $1.1 at the rate of exchange
current at the time." These calculations are, of course, open to the objection that the benefit
flows to be expected from P]EQIP are not confined to the Project years. To the extent that
PEQIP succeeded in bringing about quality improvements that will outlast the life of the Project,
pupils who enroll in PEQIP ,chools in the years to come will continue to benefit from the
investments made.'2
D. Institutional issues.
20. The management component of the original PEQIP design, Enhancement of Capacity to Manage
Quality Improvement, identified several weaknesses in management capacity, including: (i)
uncoordinated administrative support; (ii) uncoordinated budget planning (iii) weak policy
management and (iv) inadequate monitoring capacity. To address these issues, the Project
provided: Management training for education managers, including supervisors and head
teachers, Guidelines for the management of schools and school clusters, and Information,
Education and Communication training, aimed at strengthening school-community relationships.
21. Although, as will be evident From this Aide Memoire, progress has been achieved during the
Project under each of these headings, key issues concerning the management of initiatives for
quality improvement remain 1:o be resolved:
(a) Achievement of PEOIP goals. During our field visits, a lack of consensus among key
stakeholders - trainers, participants, school principals, supervisors, managers - as to the
goals of PEQIP became evident. We encountered several conceptions (implicit or explicit)
as to what constitutes a 'good' PEQIP school. For some, inputs are most important: a good
PEQIP school is one whe.re the buildings have been well maintained, and where there is a
plentiful supply of teaching materials kept in good order. For others, outputs matter most: a
good PEQIP school is one with high Ebtanas scores. 'Process' definitions, focussing on the
effectiveness of teaching and learning in the classroom, were less common.
(b) Involvement of MOHA. F'rom its inception, PEQIP was located within the Ministry of
Education and Culture. Although officials from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA)
were generally supportive of PEQIP and in some cases participated in Project activities, they
took a minor role in Project management. This lack of involvement was problematic in
several ways. Two examples: (i) PEQIP tutors were required to spend three days each week
visiting teachers in schools within their cluster. But the management of teachers is the
responsibility of MOHA and consequently, rearranging school timetables to cope with these
absences required cooperation between the two ministries. Particularly in cases where the
tutor's school was short ol teachers, this issue was often not easy to resolve; and (ii) The
Project provided a career ladder for classroom teachers to become a qualified key subject
teachers or tutors. But promotions to more senior structural positions (school principal,
supervisor) fall entirely within the jurisdiction of MOHA.
" Rp 2,500 per $US.
12 However, judging from the admittedly incomplete evidence we were able to collect during our field visits, it
seems that in many schools these continued benefits are likely to be limited.
- 30 -



22. With the enactment of the provisions of Law No 22 (1999), a radical restructuring of
Government administrative structures is about to take place. Under the new Law, the powers
held by many Ministries (including MOEC) will in large degree be devolved to the district level.
In future the competent authority for most decision-making concerning educational management
will be a body chaired by Bupati, made up of representatives from each of the different
ministries previously involved with various aspects of the education system (MOEC, MOHA,
MORA). The enactment of this new law provides an opportunity for the establishment of new
structures within which all the various stakeholders in the educational system can work towards
common understanding of major issues, out of which more effective approaches to quality
improvement can emerge.
- 31 -



ANNEX 2
Government of Indonesia
Contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report
on the
PRIMARY EDUECATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3448-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Statement /Evaluation of Objectives
1. Background. The Indonesian National development entails the whole development of the
human being and the development of the whole Indonesian society. To improve the quality of
human resources is the effort of the Indonesian Nation in realization of the National
Development. The development of the intellectual life of the Indonesian Nation is one of the
commitments of the Indonesian people as stated in the preamble of the 1945 Constitution. The
quality of human resources is very much dependent on the quality of formal and non-formal
education.
2. Quality improvement of human resources through formal education starts in the primary school
for children to move to the next tier of education or to be able to adapt themselves in the daily
life of the community. There is no doubt that quality improvement on primary education
becomes the first and main priority of the government. The process of quality improvement
should still refer to the government efforts on equity and extension of learning opportunities,
relevancy of education and development needs, efficiency and effectiveness of educational
implementation management. Quantitatively, educational development particularly in the
primary schools has increased incredibly. Participation rate in the last 50 years increased from
3.5% in 1945 to 94.87% in 1997. However, the incredible increase in participation rate has not
yet been accompanied by increase in quality improvement. Some of the influencing factors are:
(a) low quality of educational personnel (teachers, head teachers); (b) display of socioeconomic
conditions and educational backgrounds of parents; (c) uneven distribution of teachers in terms
of quantity and quality. Concentration of teachers (including qualified teachers) occurs in
relatively bigger towns with better access to transportation and communication and greater
opportunity of getting other sources of income; (d) limited resources in terms of quantity and
quality particularly in "poor" schools. Besides the limited resources, some teachers do not have
the appropriate knowledge and sills to use apparatus and teaching-learning aids; (e) educational
managers in the different levels i.e. central, provincial, district and sub-district level, have
influenced quality improvement in education. Other levels of management that exert a more
direct influence on quality improvements are school cluster management, school management
and classroom management.
3. Based on the needs to improve quality of education in primary schools, the Directorate of
Primary Education of Department of Education and Culture developed a project called Primary
Education Quality improvement Project (PEQIP). The Project, Loan WB No. 3448-ind was
agreed in May 1992. The total project budget was US$ 53.9 million of which IBRD loan
financed US$ '17,000,000 equivalent (69 % of anticipated costs). The loan was effective from 26
June 1992 to September 1997, later extended to 31 March 1999. The implementation period was
- 32 -



extended to allow full time for the consolidation of project activities and to allow the further
development of key features of the project that served as pilots for the design of future World
bank financed Basic Education projects. The amount of the loan was revised down to US$31
million in August 1998 when the World Bank cancelled US$6 million of the under-spend. By I
February 1999 US$26.78 million or 70% of the original loan had been spent.
4. The Project Objectives and Scope. The objective of PEQIP , as stated in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), Report No.9575 IND, was to introduce policies and mechanism to improve
primary education quality aimed at raising student achievement and completion rates. Technical
assistance, training and operational support was provided to (a) improve teaching learning
process; (b) provide special assistance for under-served schools; and (e) enhance capacity to
manage quality improvement programs. The scope of the project comprised five aspects of
primary schools in order to improve education quality: (a) the teaching learning process; (b) the
availability and quality of books and teaming materials; (c) the management of schools; (d) the
physical fabric of schools and their surroundings; and (e) community participation. As the
project was to develop a model, six pilot project sites were chosen. These were two provinces in
the westem part of Indonesia: Aceh and Sumatra Barat, two in the central part: Yogyakarta and
Bali, and another two in the eastern part: Nusa Tenggara Timur and Sulawesi Utara.
5. The salient feature of the PEQIP system for developing quality improvement was the school
cluster. Each school cluster comprised, on average, eight schools. One school was designated the
core school (SD Inti), which served as a teacher resource center and the focus of teachers' work
group meetings (KKG), which included teachers from all the schools in a cluster (SD Inti and
SD Imbas). There were similar work groups for head teachers who held regular meetings in the
SD Inti and supervisors whose meetings took place in the office of the Kandep Kecamatan. Two
teachers in each cluster were given the role of tutor with a remit to visit schools in the cluster
and provide on-the-job instruction to other teachers. In addition there were 5 advisory teachers
(one for each of the main curriculum subjects) in each cluster, whose job involved providing
training in KKG meetings. The original provincial configuration of PEQIP included three
clusters in each of three sub-districts, i.e. nine clusters per province. This was expanded in 1966
to include three further sub-districts, the 'dissemination areas', making a total of 18 clusters per
province. In all 890 primary schools were involved in the project.
6. Project Management. The project was managed by a Central Project Management Unit
(CPMU) in the Directorate of Primary Education in the Ministry of Education and Culture. The
CPMU was responsible for the overall direction of the Project, setting the professional and
budgetary frameworks, within which the various components of the Project operated. The
CPMU was also responsible for the major items of procurement, including consultancy services,
books and equipment, for channeling funds for project activities and submitting technical reports
to the World Bank. The project operated in six provincial project sites, each administered by a
Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU) based in the office of Kanwil and headed by the
Kepala Bidang. The PPMU were responsible for coordinating the day to day implementation of
the Project. In addition teams of Ministry of Education and Culture officials in the relevant
Districts and Sub-districts in the PEQIP provinces formed District Project Implementation Units
(DPIU) and Sub-district Project Implementation Units (SDPMU).
7. Project Component. Just over one third of the loan was devoted to training and roughly.
Another third on equipment, vehicles, materials and printing and delivery services. Consultants'
Services and Studies (GTZ/BTE, MES and DHV/MLD) were procured by competitive bidding.
- 33 -



8. Monitoring. Regular monitoring of project progress is a part of the project management and was
the responsibility of the CP'MU and PPMUs. A team of International and national consultants
from Manggala Epsilon Sigma (MES) provided technical assistance. A programme of school
monitoring was undertaken consisting of regular visits to the PEQIP areas to observe classes and
KKG meetings and to work with local supervisors in order transfer monitoring skills. Five cycles
of monitoring were carried out betwveen February 1995 and May 1998. Guidelines for school
monitoring were drawn up. Consultants also monitored the operation of the Special Assistance
Fund to under-served schooils and produced guidelines for this pro anime. In the last year of the
project consultants assessed the teacher training programme and its impact.
9. The Program  for Teacher Professional Support. The system of professional support for
Teachers adopted by PEQIP was based on an earlier model (SPP/CBSA). The keystone of the
system was the school cluster. The purpose of the support structure was to provide the
framework in which teachers could effect improvements to the teaching-learning process. These
improvements included: (a) acquisition of better subject knowledge by teachers; (b) a shift to
more student-centered and varied teaching methods, emphasizing learning through active
problem- solving rather than passive learning; (c) the creation of more stimulating learning
environments. The target groups of this component were teachers, tutors, advisory teachers, head
teachers, supervisors and education managers.
(i) In the first two years of the project, training was provided for all these groups in centrally
and provincially based penataran organized directly by the CPMU and PPMUs without
consultants inputs. This national level training for supervisors and education managers
throughout the Project.
(ii) Teacher professional development training (SPP) was organized and run at a provincial level
by the PPIU.
(iii)Subject content training in the main curriculum subjects (mathematics, science, Bahasa
Indonesia and social studies/civic education) was also provided for advisory teachers though
the national training centers (PPPG).
(iv) From January 1995 to September 1997, consultants from GTZ and BTE directed tutor and
advisory teacher training. These consultants also contributed to the nationally organized
training of supervisors, head-teacher, and education managers. The training of tutors and
advisory teachers initially concentrated on the acquisition of better subject knowledge in the
areas mathematics, science, Bahasa Indonesia, social studies and primary reading and
writing. The transfer of teaching skills was done through the preparation of lesson plans
observation of model lessons, demonstration of the uses of teaching aids and peer teaching.
The concentration of this phase was to train the target audience to become good teachers. In
subsequent years, prominent features of the training included needs analysis of participants
and practical exercises based on observations during school visits. In all eight training
courses were given in each PEQIP province to tutors and advisory teachers. From 1995 to
1997 each course typically involved 48 participants. The four training courses (Training Al
B, C, and D) for tutor inti in 1997/98 focused on the training of 20 participants.
(v) From November 1997 - September 1998, the consultants' training effort was concentrated on
creating capacity for the continued training of tutors and advisory teachers through the
promotion of core tutors (tutor inti) in each province. The aim Is to make good teachers into
good teacher trainers. The training framework was defined to include the following feature:
concentration on detailed lesson plans, practical school-based training with observation and
feedback discussions, and the inclusion of head-teachers and supervisors to gain their active
support for the training objectives.  The Tutor inti team has increased the capacity of
the provinces to provide training to tutors and advisory teachers and thereby to maintain the
- 34 -



cluster-based training function. A summary of the teacher training undertaken during the
Project appears in Appendix 3.
10. Development and Supply of Better Quality Books and Educational Materials. The Project
sought to increase the quantity and improve efficiency of the supply of books and in order to
support students' learning and teachers' professional development. It also sought to upgrade book
quality and variety by providing training in book and material authorship and production and
developing books policy for primary schools. The project supplied textbooks, supplementary
reading books and teaching and learning materials to all PEQIP schools. Technical assistance
was provided to improve the mechanism for assessing book needs and supply, which were
resulting in shortage of some books and over supply of others. Guidance was given by
consultants on simple ways relating book orders to the actual needs of the schools and on less
wasteful supply and distribution practices.
11. A series of workshops were held in 1996 for teachers from all the PEQIP provinces, on the
development of learning materials, the production of low cost teaching aids and the use of audio-
visual media in the classroom and teachers' work groups. Further training was given in the
course of head-teachers' training on the Organization and use of school libraries. Two project-
specific magazines were produced, MUTU and DEDIKASI, which acted as news-letters
featuring amongst other information about the project, articles on the development of learning
materials. These were principally used in the teachers' centres for demonstrations during work
group meetings. They included standard consignments of posters, science kit and anatomical
models. Some items were considered more useful than others. The supply of photocopiers, for
instance, imposed recurrent costs on recipients and this diminished their utility.
12. The Provision of Special Assistance to Under-served Schools. The PEQIP Loan Agreement
provided for US$3,700,000 (50 % World Bank funded) to fund block grants (Special Assistance
Funds) to a total of 400 of the poorest schools in two provinces, Nusa Tenggara Timor and
Sumatra Barat and associated training in resource management for head-teachers and other
educational personnel. The purpose of this funding was to supplement the incomes of under-
served schools whose capacity to call on other source of income, primary parental contributions,
is limited. These funds were intended to provide for expenditure on non-salary items to support
the teaching learning process. The original intention was that the SAF programme would be
expanded to all six PEQIP provinces. This idea was overtaken by events. The expansion of SAF
was superseded by the development of Dana Bantuan Operasional, which has been provided to
schools in all Indonesian provinces, in response to the economic crisis.
The SAF Programme provided grants to a total of 400 schools (200 in each province) over three
years from 1995/96 to 1997/98. A sum of Rp. 1.5 million was provided annually to each school,
PPN4Us carried out the selection of schools, using criteria based principally on the level of BP3
parental contribution. This criterion was later modified to include the desa tertinggal status of the
villages where the schools were located. A special arrangement was worked out for the
disbursement of SAF direct from the Project to schools. Funds were channeled from KPKN (the
government treasury) to school bank accounts in local branches of state owned banks,
principally Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). Two Training courses were provided to the head
teachers of recipient schools in the course of the project. This focussed on procedural
requirements of the SAF programme and on more general financial management issues such as
prioritising need, planning, budgeting and financial responsibility. Guidelines were produced for
the programme including positive and negative lists for the uses of SAF.
- 35 -



13. The Enhancement of Capacity to Manage Quality Improvement Programmes. In order to
strengthen the capacity to manage quality improvement, the Project provided management
training for education managers, supervisors and head teachers. It also produced guidelines for
the management of clusters and schools. Management training was given to head teachers and
sub-district education officers at centrally and provincially organised penataran. In addition,
much effort went into explaining the aims of the project to different groups. (a) The inclusion of
head teachers and supervisors in teacher training activities in the latter years of the Project
helped to enlist their support. (b) Collaboration with sub-district education officials and guidance
o school monitoring during the monitoring site visits by consultants had a similar effect on
increasing their appreciation of education quality improvement. At the same time the skills of
observing teaching and learning in the classroom and of giving useful feedback were transferred
in a practical and effective way.
14. Improving financial and budgetary processing. PEQIP aimed to improve financial and
budgetary processing. The RAPBS was introduced to primary school head teachers early in the
project. It was also an important part of the training of head teachers in Sumatra Barat and NTT
who were involved in the SAF programme. RAPBS is a simple financial planning tool, which
draws together the various scurces of income and sets this against planned expenditure.
15. Improving Institutional Capabilities. The third broad aim of the enhancement of management
capacities was to improve institutional capabilities in activities such as monitoring and
evaluation, the setting of educational standards and the production of information and
guidelines, under the general heading of Information Education and Communication (IEC).
Centrally organized training in IEC was conducted by the CPMU. Guidelines were produced,
inter alia, on: (a) Cluster Management; (b) School Management; (e) Classroom Management (d)
Better Teaching Learning Practices; (e) School Monitoring for us, by education managers and
supervisors; (f) Monitoring Block Grants to under-served schools; (g) Practical Means of
Promoting Community Participation.
16. An annual Cluster Competition was held. The following features of clusters were assessed: the
quality of teaching and learning, the physical fabric of schools, management arrangement the
effectiveness of teacher professional support and the degree of community participation.
B. Achievement of Objectives.
17. The System of Teacher Professional Support. A major achievement of the Project was the
successful establishment of a school-cluster-based teacher professional support system that is
replicable at relatively low cost. Within this framework, it provided a model of work groups
(KKG, KKKS, KKPS). These groups met regularly to discuss curriculum matters and teaching
methods and familiarised teachers with teaching aids and materials. The Project also provides a
workable model for teacher training, using cluster-based tutors and advisory teachers and
involving head teachers and supervisors.
18. The Project demonstrated the greater efficiency of practical training close to tile classroom over
the traditional lecture-based penataran approach. The Project also responded to the need to
provide continuous replenishment of training capacity through the creation of tutor trainers
(Tutor Inti), although the institutional status of these tutor trainers was not fully established. An
amended training model, based on the experience of PEQIP, has been adopted for the World
Bank-funded Basic Educaticin Project.
- 36 -



19. Major external constraints remain. 'Me Project was not able to address the need to enhance the
promotion opportunities for primary school teachers, which was one of the original aspirations.
It was also not able to overcome the uneven distribution of teachers. Teacher shortages proved to
be constraints to the effective operation of the cluster-based teacher support system and the
deployment of tutors.
20. The Teaching Learning Process. In many schools PEQFP has been responsible for I
observable improvement in teaching and learn' g. In the best PEQIP schools, teachers are now In
operating with better subject knowledge and better skills in the use of varied methods for
delivering the curriculum. In these schools, head teachers and supervisors are aware of the
objectives of the Project and feel part of the process. In these schools too, students actively
participate in their own learning and school is an enriching experience. However, as monitoring
report have shown, progress has not been uniform amongst and within project sites. There are
many shades of variation. In those schools at the low end of the spectrum the levels of the
teachers' knowledge and skills remain low. The teaching process has not obviously benefited as
a result of PEQIP inputs and activities. For the students in these schools, the opportunities for
learning remain limited.
21. PEQIP increased the number of books available in Project schools. However, problems of book
distribution persisted throughout the Project and shortages remain, particularly in many imbas
schools. Although training was held in the production of better quality, more attractive books
and learning materials, the impact of training was slight. imaginative use of school libraries is
not yet the norm.
22. It is difficult to gauge the effects of PEQIP on learning outcomes. The studies undertaken by
DHV consultants pointed to a mixed picture. The results of term tests (Cawu) set by individual
schools are not mutually comparable. NEM scores are generally regarded as inappropriate
measures of students' understanding and problem solving ability. Information on both Cawu and
N'EM is attached in Appendix 8, but it should be noted that they are imperfect guides to the
effectiveness of the Project. Standardized tests were developed during PEQIP to assess levels of
student attainment, but there are no base line data on which to make meaningful statements.
23. The Special Assistance Funds. The Project has succeeded in provided much-needed cash
assistance to under-served schools through the provision of Special Assistance Funds. It
established a precedent for giving direct financial assistance to the point of need. Valuable
lessons have been learned from this exercise, which have been directly relevant to the expanded
Dana Bantuan Operasional (DBO) programme. The SAF programme itself however, had a
number of deficiencies that reduced its effectiveness. There were problems with the selection of
schools and the disbursement process. Training and guidance on the scheme in particular and
financial management at the school level generally was insufficient to ensure effective planning,
use and accounting of funds.
24. Strengthening Management Capacity. PEQFP set out with the intention of strengthening local
capacity to plan, manage and implement primary education quality improvement. The Project
has succeeded in introducing a range of education managers, supervisors and head teachers to
the opportunities for quality improvement. The formal and on- the-job training provided has
enabled them to become more conscious of the factors affecting school performance and the
effectiveness of education management has improved as a consequence. Part of this
improvement is due to the result from the integration of training for these groups, towards the
end of the Project.
- 37 -



25. PEQIP aimed to improve, financial planning and budgetary processing. It introduced the RAPES
to primary school head teachers in Sumatra Barat and NTr involved in the SAF programme. This
is a simple financial planning tool, which draws together the various sources of income and sets
this against planned expenditure. The continued use of RAPBS is however inconsistent and
financial management and s:kills remain low.
26. Community Participation. The effectiveness of the Project's efforts to promote community
participation has raised public awareness of the Project's objectives and expectations of what the
school system should provide.
27. Project Management. PEQIP has, however, shown the difficulties of organising educational
change in a highly centralised, top-down education system, with all the problems of
communication and information flows that are involved. 'Me lines of communication from the
CPMU down through the PPN4Us were largely confined to the vertical structure of Depdikbud.
Co-operation between Depdikbud and Dinas P & K occurred at the provincial and district levels,
but not as an intentional or direct consequence of the Project.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
28. The project has successfully established a system of primary school quality improvement based
on a school cluster model. The fact that this model has now been adopted throughout Indonesia
is a measure of PEQIP's inipact. A similar model (MGMP) has been established for junior
secondary schools.
29. In some PEQIP areas there has been a quantum shift in the ways in which individual supervisors,
head teachers, and teachers regard their roles in promoting quality improvement. The enthusiasm
of teachers and their willingness to embrace new ideas and methods is a measure of PEQIP's
success.
30. The pivoted role of the head teacher in determining the acceptance or otherwise of.the kind of
the kind of quality improvements that PEQIP attempted is now well documented. Where
supervisors who have a broader view of their role than that of administrative checking back up
their efforts, the positive effects on the schools are apparent. The understanding and the mutual
support that they give one another are self-perpetuating (critical mass) and it is likely that these
individuals will lapse back to their old ways of operating.
31. Such vision and mutual confirmation is, however, still rare. Despite 0 the effort that has gone
into training and the jargon that become common currencies, there are still many schools in
which the changes in the quality of teaching and learning brought about through PEQIP are
imperceptible. The form may have changed, but the substance has remained the same.
32. A number of institutional constraints however remain. These are:
* PEQIP was a centrally mnmaged project that did little to promote decentralization. Through
activities such as Cluster Competition, it is attempted to foster a sense of local ownership. It
also attempted to enhance administrative skills at the level of district and sub-district.
However, it did not ake substantial progress in crossing the administrative divide between
the Ministry of Education and Culture and local government under the Bupati and the
Ministry of Home Affairs.
- 38 -



* The uneven distribution of teachers resulting a teacher shortages in many schools is an
ongoing problem that has at times adversely affected the operation of PEQIP and will
continue to limit quality improvement in the future.
* Although the introduction of advisory teachers and tutors and tutor inti in PEQIP provided
recognizable career path for teachers, the institutional change that could formalize enhanced
promotion prospects of teachers have yet to be made.
* Financial sustainability of project assisted levels of expenditure is uncertain. The economic
crisis is likely to have a negative effect on both students and their families and on schools
and their ability to provide adequate resources for continuing quality improvement.
D. Project Sustainability
33. .Project Sustainability. Teacher professional support based on a cluster model will continue in
the PEQIP provinces and will be exerted to other provinces through the World Bank- funded
Basic Education Projects. There are indications that the ADB also now subscribes to this model.
In terms of institutional sustainability, a body of teacher training expertise has been established
in each province. It is unlikely that the system of tutor training devised by consultants will be
continued in the precise form suggested. The evidence so far suggests that tutors and tutor inti
will be used interchangeably, as training needs arise, regardless of the status differentials implied
in the certification process.
34. There can be no doubt that the experience of managing PEQIP has been valuable learning
experience for the staff of the Directorate of Primary Education and the Kanwil staff involved in
the PPNfUs. The lessons learned in the ways in which future projects are administered and, by
association, how routine tasks are handled.
E. Bank Performance
35. In general Bank performance in the project preparation and supervision was satisfactory. 'Me
Bank had a thorough knowledge and expertise in the Indonesian educational system acquired
during previous experience working with other institutions in the Ministry of Education and
Culture. The Bank's technical support team was of high standard and well expected by the
Borrower. The Bank's technical support team gave invaluable inputs to the Borrower, which
especially allow extension of the implementation period (September 1997-febniary 19999). This
policy allowed full time for the consolidation of project activities and allowed for the
development of key features of the project that served as pilots for the design of future Bank's
financed Basic Education projects.
36. Constructive working relationships were maintained with the Borrower and during
implementation sufficient to be able to mutually agree to a restructuring of the project in order to
optimally achieve objectives. This provided greater opportunity to the Borrower to provide much
needed technical support and guidance in procurement, disbursement and accounting procedures
which had been poorly understood by the Borrower in the earlier years of implementation and
had contributed to delays in approving procurement documentation and in reporting
expenditures.
F. Borrower Performance
37. During preparation and implementation Borrower performance was satisfactory. The project
management and implementation structure set in place was very centralized that decision on
- 39 -



planning and budgeting for the six pilot provinces had to be made from the center. Borrower
recognized that this was not effective and was prepared to find workable solutions to complex
and difficult management 1lssues. The provincial project staffs were gradually involved in the
planning and budgeting process to enable them to experience and understand their managerial
roles and related responsibility in the programme. In the early stages of the implementation it
was felt that Borrower lacked experience in Bank business procedures and this gave rise to
several procurement and accounting problems during implementation. Borrower made efforts to
address these kinds of problems even without Ul consultation with the Bank.
38. There were two project directors over the seven-year (1992-99) implementation period and
frequent changes of other u:nit staff, with the exception of the financial personnel, most of them
were not full time staff. This did not help to build the basic managerial skills and the necessary
body of expertise in managing complex training programmes. A large portion of the Loan was to
finance both centrally andl provincially organized teachers training, and procurement and
distribution of equipment and learning materials to schools at project sites. Borrower recognized
that in the procurement of some educational aids and photocopying units caused ineffectiveness
due to being irrelevant to the actual needs of the schools.
G. Assessment of Outcomes
One of the major efforts of the project which have most direct impact on education quality
improvement is the supervision and support given to teachers to enable them to improve the quality
of their performances.
39. Teachers' Quality Improvement Support. Several ways to improve the quality of teachers'
performances conducted by the project are (a) Training, called Teachers Professional Support
Training for Teachers (SPP, Professional Support System). The training is held annually in each
province consisting of several cycles. The duration of one cycle is effectively 10 days. (b)
Teachers Work Groups (KKG) meetings held weekly in each School Cluster. (c) Tutorial
provided by tutors for teachers in their schools. (d) Classroom supervision by head teachers in
their respective schools which is a routine and scheduled programme. (e) School supervision by
supervisors in the schools in their own management area.
40. Indicators of Successful Teachers Support. These include:
(a) Masterv of subject matter content. Evidences are shown in the following classroom incidents
observed.
  More teachers provide appropriate explanations of principles, concepts, procedures etc. (no
misconceptions or misinterpretations).
  More variation in activities to develop concepts or understanding of certain principles and
procedures
K  Increase of attention to individual differences. Teachers provide remedial activities to slow
learners and enrichment learning materials to fast learners.
(b) Understanding implementations of teaching and learning methods. This is evident from the
observation of teaching and learning activities which include:
* More teachers use varied methods in teaching.
* Methods to enhance student active participation are increasingly applied in teaching.
* More teachers are able to choose and to apply more appropriate methods to teach certain
topics.
(c) Use of Teaching and LearninLAjds. Evidences obtained from classroom observation showed:
- 40 -



* Increase of the use of various teaching and learning resources such as student textbooks
(required and referenced) and other learning aids (including teacher's made materials).
*  The ability and skills in using the primary science kit in teaching have improved because the
opportunity to exercise has increased such as in KKG meetings or in SPP training.
* The preparation and use of simple apparatus or other low-cost (or no cost) learning materials
are more frequently done by teachers.
* Teachers more often do written teaching preparation in the form of scenarios.
* Ability and Skills in the Use of Questioning Techinque. Although the quantity of some
teachers questions have improved, these important teaching skills are not yet equally
attained by teachers.
(d) Ability and Skills in Writing Student Learning Achievement Assessment Items. Some
improvement seemed to be achieved in some PEQIP areas, but more needs to be don in this area.
(e) Teachers' Attitude towards Education Quality improvement Activities.
1) Generally motivation of teachers and other participants to attend KKG meeting increased.
2) KKG participants are more open in extending their opinions or ideas.
(f) Other success indicators are Students Flow and Students Learning Achievement.
41. Students Flow. It includes sub-indicators i.e. degree of repetition, promotion, transition and
dropout.
(i) Repetition. Generally the percentage of students repeating has continuously decreased during
the period of 1991/92 (pre-PEQIP period) up to 1997/98; (ii) Promotion. The percentage of
student promotion has also increased during the period of 1991/92 up to 1997/98; (ii) Transition.
The number of students in the PEQIP area graduated from primary schools has also increased;
(iii) Drop out. In the same provinces such as Sulawesi Utara, Sumatra Barat and Yogyakarta, the
percentage of drop-outs from PEQIP primary schools has continuously decreased. In some
clusters such as in Sulawesi Utara the dropout rate has reached 0%. While in other areas the
dropout rate is still relatively high.
42. Learning Achievement. Students learning achievement expressed in terms of EBTANAS
results called NEM. Compared to the NEM obtained during the period of pre-PEQIP and the
first three years of PEQIP implementation, NEM scores have changed as shown in the tables in
Appendix 9, particularly in Aceh, Sumatra Barat, Yogyakarta, and Sulawesi Utara.
H. Future Operations
43. The Bank has engaged in comprehensive dialogue with MOEC that gives some positive lead for
future projects. It has helped in (a) establishing a solid conceptual and economic framework for
future expansion and improvement of the quality of the primary education; (b) strengthening the
decentralizing trends toward sub-central levels, province specific projects, and local ownership;
and (c) encouraging institutional reform through greater decentralization. As a result of this
dialogue, the previous highly centralized, uniform approach to project design and
implementation has been replaced by an approach that will rest on provincial based projects. The
government has now recognized the need to take into account specific provincial situations,
including economic growth and prospects, the existing education needs, labour market
conditions, private sector delivery capacity, levels of poverty, and geographic conditions. The
Bank has also been an active partner in the discussions on the priorities related to basic
education delivery, on the role of the private and religious sector in primary education.
44. In the light of very constrained economic environment currently in Indonesia the Bank and
Borrower are reviewing how best to continue to support the disadvantaged family and children
- 41 -



from poorer and rural areas of the country. The direct impacts of which as can be observed in
school amongst others are poor attendance and less financial contribution from parents to the
school, especially in the poorer and remote areas. This has made PEQIP's programme- in quality
improvement contra-productive. The amount of project's loan was then revised down in August
1998 when the Bank reallocated USS6 million of the under-spend to address the impact of the
economic crisis.
45. Priorities for the short term in basic education at the primary school level will be:
*  Maintaining enrolment rates in primary and religious schools through scholarships for poor
children; block grants to those needy schools in poor communities.
*  Preventing deterioration of quality through grants to public/private primary and religious
schools for maintenance and rehabilitation; supplying textbooks and materials to children;
limited in-service teacher training and maintaining advantages in decentralized service
delivery, if possible by introducing school-based training.
  Increasing local government efficiency through better co-ordination between Dinas and
Kanwil (both MOEC and MORA) in the synergetic planning, implementation and
supervision of primary educational programmes.
I. Key Lessons Learned
46. Many of the lessons learned from PEQIP have already been carried through into the Basic
Education Projects. The system of clusters, teachers' work groups, tutors and advisory teachers
that formed the basis of the t:eacher professional development in PEQIP has been emulated. The
system of teacher training in the new projects is based on that developed under PEQIP. The idea
of creating a provincial training team is a development of the tutor inti concept, although the
lessons learned here was that this capacity should be developed from the beginning, rather than
towards the end of the project.
47. Several important lessons were learned from PEQIP in relation to teacher training. These are: (a)
training is more effective when it is based on an analysis of teachers' needs, rather than on what
centrally based trainers or administrators want to provide. Needs analysis became a routine part
of the training provided under the auspices of GTZ/BTE consultants. (b) Practically based
training in relatively small groups is far more effective than the traditional penataran approach.
The consultants developed school-based training. (e) The training of different groups (tutors,
head teachers, supervisors, etc.) should be integrated to establish common understanding and
purpose.
48. The lessons learned from the provision of books and materials are: (a) Supplies should be based
on the actual needs of schools rather than standard packages provide from the center. A simple
means of determining book needs was developed under PEQIP. (b) More support should be
given to the Organization and use of school libraries to maximize the use of resources. (c)
Equipment and material supplied should be related to the needs of schools and to the ability of
schools to cope with the recurrent costs that are entailed.
49. The provision of Dana Bantuan Operasional (DBO) nationally, the mechanism used and the
training and guidance produced was greatly influenced by the PEQIP experience with the
Special Assistance Funds. Tlhe limited success of the SAF programme in promoting quality
improvement in poor schools highlighted a number of deficiencies that the DBO programme has
sought to avoid.
- 42 -



50. One of the successfully features were the increase of community awareness of school issues and
the enhanced parental expectations that accompanied it. Efforts to promote community
participation in the day to day running of schools should be included in any future quality
improvement programmes. Participation should extend beyond the provision of money and
labour to improve the physical structure and fabric of the school. Parental involvement can also
add value to the teaching of the curriculum.
51. Project management should have clear objectives and should focus on outputs rather than
activities. Quality improvement is not an automatic consequence of the provision of project
inputs. The intellectual rationale underlying PEQIP was not fully understood by many of the
people implementing it, which meant they had limited vision of what constitutes education
quality. This led to concentration on form rather than substance. A lack of preparedness in the
Directorate of Primary Education meant that the project got off to a slow start. The delay in the
procurement of technical assistance contributed to a lack of clarity of direction in the first two
years of the project. Thereafter the work of consultants was not sufficiently closely monitored to
ensure a consistent and generally agreed professional direction for the project.
52. The functions of the project management should be carried out at the point at which it will have
most impact. PEQIP was a centrally managed project and this meant lengthy lines of
communication through the various levels of government. The flow of information to and from
the field was insufficient to ensure that project activities were consistently carried out as
intended. In order to enhance capacity to support quality improvement priority should be given
measures that devolve control, responsibility and accountability to the local level.
53. Follow up to monitoring and formative evaluation is an essential part of project management.
The results of monitoring were not systematically followed up. The adjustments in
implementation that were made during the course of the project tended to come about as a result
of Bank supervision rather than internal evaluation of past performance.
-43 -






IBRD 23483
1ondAND Ah                                                                                                                                                                                       PRIMARYEDUCATION QUALITY
nAseh  1                                                                              >-%South Chi.> Sea  PHILIPPINES                                         IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
BRUNE                                                                                         -   SPP/CESA PROGRAM AND PILOT FOR SPECIAL ASSISTANCE FUHNDSPAF)
Lb.                                      ____    ~~~~~~~~~~~~FOR UNDER-SERVED SCHOOLS AND OTHER INNOVATIVE ATO
w F ' tan \ As:iALAVSIA Nehfroo /3J 2 | g SPP/CBSAAND SAF PROGRAM, THE LATTE                                                                                               RAFTER SUCCESSFUL
|' S,                 9)ac                  C   0 // ) %t Celebes ( \4 J (3 PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
-             ~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
-   MALAYSIA                                                                                 7 
_____u    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
1/                                          1373       -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONALEBOUNDARIES -
-                                                                                                                                                         (/ <SHOTE:JP TO SIXMORE PROVINCES MAY ASLO RECEIVE SAFSELECTION OF PROVINCES 
-v     Vg    f                                               1           ,A        i Itt-A  Scmarinda A.  g 1         Oitt-s                         ligwr'wos,                          ----__    _;-R1  l    NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN
I tdanE\ DK.NAKARTA   -k                                                                               <2<                                      1161                        / 9clangkeroyc  11                         1 }t  M SUC~  t  CX  CeemSea    \  \A-L I  A  f A
P.dJ                                                                             15                                        7 .                                                                               Y.pe,
_s-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~>, 18 SUAERSLAA                                                                           Rhonur            gpvS  |-                            13/    s          >'                 Joa
IS KI JAKARTA
S  JAWA EARAT                          P          3 . --. 25                                                                                                              - Gee SI A odo7 
3  JAWA TENGACH                                                  
4  DALMYOGYAKARTA                                                                                                                                                       R 17j   -  -                           j                     IA  IAh
1L AMAPNTAN    T    I   U     k JAWYA\    -                                              E*San1ormon      "(Lo                                                       35 .                                   ) < >flma IA                  Yeua    - j
6  SLAMPUTNGGR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               c:mw mo hWdBm  DnLa   3 >>      
7EENGKUJLU                   3>'7
S 2   NUSATERAbSELATAN                            Eanon               I          EA
0  JNATEMB I2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n         z
12  SUIANTERAJ ARA                              SA4        T                                                                         )n-                                                                           GU
l  EESUMATERAEUARAT~'                                    1-                                                                                                                       a                         1 
13  DI ACEH                                           Tct-----                                                                                                                                                          
14  KALIMANTAN EBARAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         >  saog'    lrs
15  KOLAmANTAN TENOAH                                        Enu            $       2 hMedo,                                                                                                       ,   ainor
1 6  KALIMANEAN SELATAN                                                                                                                            S.    d~y          Wetor -Ad eco Sao
17KAL ANTAN TIMUR                                                      '-               vlor                                                                           ---                        F                                               -
E  SULAWESI TENGAH             This a 
19  SULAWESI UTARA            Th. adln'soooas'1                       aykd                                                -
IT  SULWSI SELATAN            ada.dso   a  i                                                                  ~       ~      "C           LVI                                                        e           s      -       m        0       0
2 I  SULAWESI TENGGARA      -  nong.s.tro ol ok                                                       /LPSkn 
-22  BALI                      Gou.h  saiaia  ss                                                      opoe  okRr1
023  NUSA TENGGAWABARAT          en  h  onas  hnnINDIAN OCEAN                                                             -2SUS                                                                    ooOsnRn1 1            1 1           1       
24  NUEATENQGOARATMUR                  anen.,                                                                                                                                                            5        500       400        000 -     5Ku00.
25  MAALUKU                     e~oayno,on                                                                                                                               ie n 
26  IRPAN JAVA    -             ea,enaaaoane                                                                                                                                                      --'-   x<7ASTRALIA 
27  TIMOR TIMUR                an,hudno                                   11                                                                                                                  ojjIo-AL) 
iso-                                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 1992~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNAR  V



