Documrer -of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NS^5H5  ,;D   s  O6    RnRrt No. 9575 IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 6, 1992
East Asia Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division
Thi document has a rtriced ditbutIon a_ may be used by redplents only In the performance of
their offcial dutes. It contents may mot otherwise be dblosed without World Bank authodzaton.



CURRENf MVALETS
(As of July 1991)
Currency unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00    - Rp 1,953
Rp 1 million - US$512
FISCALYEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
j:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONyM USED
APBD/N          - Regional/National Budget
BAKN            - State Civil Service Commission
BANGDA          - MOHA Directorate General of Regional Development
BANGDES         - MOHA village data base
BAPPEDA         - Regional Development Planning Board
BAPPENAS          National Development Planning Board
BP3/POMG          Parent-Teacher Association Fund
Bupati          - District Head
CBSA            - Student Active Learning System
CP W            - Central Project Management Unit
D2              - Primary Teacher (2 year) Diploma Course
DGPSE           - Directore i General of Primary and Secondary Education, MOEC
DINAS P&K       - Regional Administration Education Services Office
DIK             - Recurrent Budget Allocation
DIP             - Development Budget Allocation
DP3             - Performance Evaluation
DPE             - Directorate of Primary Education, MOEC
DPMU            - District Project Management Unit
GUGUS SEKOLAH  - School Cluster
ICB             - International Competitive Bidding
IDCC            - Inter-agency District Coordinating Committee
IEC            - Information, Education and Communication
IKIP            - Secondary Teacher Training College
INPRES         - Presidential Instruction
IPCC           - Inter-agency Provincial Coordinating Committee
ISc            -  Inter-agency Steering Committee
KANCAM          - MOEC Sub-district Office
KANDEP          - MOEC District Office
KANWIL          - MOEC Provincial Office
KPKN            - Treasury Office, MOF
LCB             - Local Competitive Bidding
MENPAN          - State Ministry for Utilization of Government Apparatus
MIS               Management Information System
MOEC            - Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF             - Ministry of Finance
MOHA            - Ministry of Home Affairs
O&M             - Operations and Maintenance
ODA             - Overseas Development Administration, UK
P4D             - MOEC DIP for Development Schools
PCR             - Project Completion Report
PEQIP           - Primary Education Quality Improvement Project
PIMPRO          - Project Officer
PIU             - Project Implementation Unit
PPAR            - Project Performance Audit Review
PPMU            - Provincial Project Management Unit
PUOD            - MOHA Directorate General for Regional Autonomy
PUSU            - Provincial Under-served Schools Unit
SAF             - Special Assistance Fund
SBPP            - Primary School Subsidy
SD              - Primary School
SD IMBAS        - Satellite Primary School
SD INTI         - Core Primary School
SDO             - Regional Autonomy Budget Transfer
SOE             - Statement of Expenditure
SPG             - Primary Teacher Training Institute
SPMU            - Sub-district Project Management Unit
SPP             - Teacher Professional Support System
TA              - Technical Assistanca
TAB             - Technical Advisory Board
WID             - Women in Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION OUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page N2.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . .   . .    iii
BASaI C    DA-   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  vi
I.    PRIMARY  EDUCATION  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
A.    Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
B. Issues in the Quality of Primary Education  . . . . .        6
C.  Government Strategy for Basic Education   . . . . . .      10
II.  BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED  . . . . . . . . . .     11
A.    Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
B.  Lessons of Experience   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
C.    Bank  Strategy  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
III.    THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
A.  Origin  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  18
B. Geographical Scope  ... .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .   .   18
C.  Project Objective and Description   . . . . . . . . .      19
D.  Project Management and Implementation   . . . . . . .      27
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS       30
A.   Costs  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  30
B.  Financing   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  33
C. Procurement.. ..............  ..    34
D.  Disbursements   ...............  .                         35
V.    BENEFITS  AND  RISKS    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  36
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . .      37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in January/February 1991, comprising Mdmes/Messrs Linda A. Dove
(Senior General Educator, task manager), Ruth Montague (Senior Architect),
Vicente Paqueo (Economist), Caroline Bayulken (Public Administration), Audrey
Aarons (Teacher Training Consultant), Philip Cohen (Books Consultant), Dwight
King (Local Government Consultant) and Harry Go (Project Management Consul-
tant). Ms. Angela Ransom (Monitoring and Evaluation-preappraisal) and Mr. Jin
He (Research Assistant) helped prepare documentation. Peer reviewers were
Mr. Thomas Schmidt (General Education), Ms. Ellen Schaengold (Local Govern-
ment), Ms. Elizabeth King (WID) and Mr. Finbarr Shanley (Administration).
Ms. Marianne Haug, Director (EA3DR), and Mr. Clifford Gilpin, Chief (EA3PH),
have endorsed the report.



- ii -
1. Action Plan for Primary Education Policy and Program Development
2. General Guidelines for Appraisal of Provincial Plans and Programs
3. Educational Profile
Table A--Overview of Primary Education
Table B--Primary Education by Province
4. Profiles of Two Provinces
Table A--West Sumatra and East Nusa Tenggara
Table B--Education Profile: Indonesia, West Sumatra and East Nusa
Tenggara
5.  Central Government Budget (APBN) for Primary Education by Channel and Use
Table A--Budgetary Channels and Administering Agencies 1988/89-1990-91
Table B--Budgetary Share by Category of Use 1988/89-90/91
Table C--Budgetary Source and Use, 1990/91
6. Provincial Participation by Project Component
7. Teacher Professional Support and Student Active Learning (SPP/CBSA)
8. Teacher Promotion Opportunities
Table A--Career Paths for Educational Personnel
Table B--Educational Personnel by Civil Service Salary Category
Table C--Educational Personnel by Age Structure
Table D--Civil Service Salaries by Grade and Length of Service
9. Textbooks and Learning Materials
10. Aid to Under-served Schools
Table A--Compensatory Special Assistance Funds to Under-served Schools
Table B--List of Items Eligible for SBPP Funding
Table C--Proposed Phasing of Pilot Scheme, Expansion and Dissemination
11. List of Studies and Studies Program by Component and Year
12. Technical Assistance, Fellowships and Training Program by Component
and Year
13. Estimated Project Cost
Table A--Project Components by Year
Table B--Summary Account by Project Component
14. Schedule of Disbursements
15. Implementation Schedule
16. Project Management
17. Project Monitoring
18. Bank Group Financed Education and Training Projects
19. Selected Documents and Data in Project Files
CHARTS
Chart 1: Education Structure 1991
Chart 2: Organization of the MOEC
Chart 3: Project Management Organizational Structure
3A--Central Level
3B--SPP/CBSA Provinces
MAP No. 23483



- iii -
INDONES I
PRIMARY EDUCATION OUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowier:     Repu_'lic of Indonesia
Am.ount:       US$37.0 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayable in 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
DescriRtion:   The objective of the project is to introduce policies and
mechanisms to improve primary education quality aimed at
raising student achievement and completion rates. This would
be achieved by provision of technical assistance, training,
equipment and operational support for: A. improving teaching-
learning processes (US$25.5 million); B. providing special
assistance for under-served schools (US$9.8 million); and
C. enhancing capacity to manage quality improvement programs
(US$4.0 million). Component A. would provide support to six
provinces, Aceh, Bali, East Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT), North
Sulawesi, West Sumatra and Yogjakarta, whose administrations
intend to expand and develop an innovative program of 'teacher
professional support" (SPP) and "student active learning"
(CBSA). SPP/CBSA is an innovative program to provide teachers
with a variety of pedagogical skills which has already been
piloted and evaluated as successful in several provinces. This
component would also provide more and better quality books and
materials and develop policy to enhance teachers' promotion
opportunities. Component B. would pilot a program in NTT and
West Sumatra to upgrade the quality of the most under-served
schools by providing compensatory funds to schools in the
poorest villages. If proven successful, the program would be
expanded to the other four SPP/CBSA provinces and subsequently
up to six of the remaining poorest provinces. Component C.
would have provincially-based and national elements. In NTT
and West Sumatra the project would introduce and monitor
measures to rationalize the respective responsibilities of the
Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) and Regional Adminis-
tration Education Services (DINAS P&K) in providing support to
primary schools for quality improvement. It would help improve
financial planning and budgeting by consolidating budgetary
information at school, provincial and national level. It would
also promote institutional development of centrally-located
MOEC agencies to formulate policy, monitor and guide quality
standards and foster public support for the project's goals.



- iv -
Benefits:      The immediate beneficiaries would be some 5,000 teachers and
principals, both men and women, who would gain as participants
in innovative professional support programs designed to enhance
their teaching skills and promotion prospects, another 3,700
school principals who would participate in specialized training
to better manage educational programs with special assistance
funds, the approximately 22,000 teachers and their students in
poor villages who would benefit from an enriched educational
environment and MOEC and DINAS P&K supervisors and managers in
up to twelve provinces who would benefit from training and a
strengthened administrative and budgetary environment in
enhancing service delivery. The ultimate beneficiaries would
be 5.2 million primary students whose learning achievement
potential would be enhanced.
Risks:         The main .-isk would be that the challenging administrative and
budgetary policy reforms could be delayed in practice, thus
reducing the project's effectiven_ss and sustainability. This
risk would be mitigated by the adoption of a covenanted Action
Plan for Primary Education Policy and Program Development
(Annex 1) and by a mid-term progress review. Previous
experieuce in the sector indicates that training programs and
service delivery planned at central level may not be
implemented effectively at school level. This risk is
minimized by providing project-specific training, by involving
personnel at provincial level in project planning and resource
management, by training district and school level personnel to
manage funds and implement quality measures and by supporting
MOEC institutional development. A further risk is that
positive effects may not be demonstrable in the short term,
thus weakening the reform impetus. This would be addressed by
monitoring progress and measuring effects and by fostering
public support through dissemination of information about the
project's goals.



-v.
Estimated Costs
Local    Foreign    Total
------ US$ million -----
Improving teaching-learning processes:
Teacher professional development
program                                        10.6        7.4       18.0
Teacher promotion opportunities                   0.3        0.3        0.6
Development and supply of books and
educational materials                           1.8        5.1        6.9
Subtotal                        12.7       12.8       25.5
Special assistance for
under-served schools                            8.4        1.4        9.8
Enhance management of quality
improvement:
Provincial administrative support                 0.2        0.4        0.6
Improved financial planning                       0.3        0.3       0.6
Development of institutional                      1.3        1.5        2.8
capacity
Subtotal                         1.8        2.2        4.0
Project management and administration             2.7        4.7        7.4
Baseline cost                   25.6       21.1       46.7
Contingencies:
Physical                                          1.3        1.4        2.7
Price increase                                    2.6        1.9       4.5
Subtotal                         3-9        3-3        7.2
Total project cost ia           29.5       24.4       53.9
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
Government of Indonesia                       16.9        -        16.9
Bank                                          12.6       24.4       37.0
Total financing                 29.5       24.4       53.9
La  Includes local taxes estimated at US$1.1 million equivalent.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year           1993   1994   1995   i996   1997   1998
Annual                     2.5    4.2      7.7   10.9    8.6   3.1
Cumulative                 2.5    6.7    14.4   25.3   33.9  37.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
EgR:   23483



-vi -
PRIHARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Basic Data
I. General
Population (millions)              (mid-1989)               178.2
Annual Population Growth (X)       (1980-89)                   1.9
Annual Population Projection (%) (1989-2000)                   1.6
Population 0-14 years (X)          (1989)                    36.8
(2025)                    23.3
Literacy Rate (X of Adults)        (1985)                    92
Females (Z)                                  75
GNP Per Capita (US$)               (1989)                   500
II. Education
1.   Enrollments
Level and                    Total         Gross Enrollment         Female as
Age-Groups                 Enrollments            Ratio             X of Total
Primary                     26,725 364              119                 49
(grades 1-6, ages 7-12)
Lower Secondary              6,132,057               52                 47
(grades 7-9, ages 13-15)
Upper Secondary               3,498,989              47                 45
(grades 10-12, ages 16-18)
Higher                        1,563,110             8.5                 40
(grade 13+, ages 19+)
2. Public Primary Schools. Teachers. PuRils and Classes (1989-90)
Schools                      141,058
Teachers                   1,038,029
Students                  25,141,708
Students per school           178.24
Teachers per school              7.36
Students per teacher           24.22
Students per class             27.57
Teachers per class               1.14
3. C-7ntral Government Expenditure on Education (1989)
As percent of total central government expenditur.-                    8.8
As percent of GNP                                                      2.1
Sources:   Ministry of Education and Culture, Office of Research and
Development, Center for Information, Statistical Year Book for
Education, 1988/89; Secretariat General, Bureau for Planning,
1989/90 GOI Inter-Censal Population Survey (SUPAS) 1985; Worl
DeveloRment Report, World Bank 1991; Indonesia:  Basic Education
Study, Report No. 7841-IND, World Bank, 1989.



INDONESI
PRIMARY EDUCATION Q.ALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
A. Background
1.1       System ExDansion.  Over the last 45 years the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) has had striking success in expanding access to general educa-
tion for the age-group 7-17 years. At Independence, only a minimal school
system was in place catering to 30 percent of the school-age population.
Today the system comprises primary (grades 1-6), lower secondary (7-9) and
upper secondary (10-12). Since the 1970's enrollments in primary and secon-
dary education have expanded rapidly from under 3 million to 38 t2illion stu-
dents. Over one million children attend private kindergartens and there is now
universal access to grade 1 for the primary age group 7-12 years (Chart 1).
Primary education enrolls nearly 27 million students with almost equal repre-
sentation of girls and boys. Enrollments havy also expanded rapidly in lower
secondary from under one million to nearly seven mi'llion, of which 49 percent
are girls but enrollments have now plateaued and may be declining. This
enrollment total represents a little less than 50 percent of the age-group
13-15 years. It is estimated that about 25 percent of primary students drop
out, 40 percent of primary school graduates still do not enter lower secondary
school and the proportirn who do not enter is increasing. This is due to poor
performance on school tests, household poverty and poor accessibility of lower
secondary schools, especially for girls. Nonformal education for out-of-
school youth has been developed on a large scale since the 1970's and, during
the Fourth Five-Year Plan 1984/85-1988/89, brought literacy programs to nearly
ten million of the country's estimated 23 million illiterates (1985). In the
1980's enrollwoents in higher education began to grow rapidly, though from a
very small base, and total enrollments now comprise 1.6 million students.
1.2        Primary Subsector Develonment.  From 1973, a massive school con-
struction program, funded by presidential instruction (INPRES) from oil reve-
nues, translated into practice the Government's goal to achieve universal
coverage for primary education. In 1977, with the abolition of formal school
fees, primary education was made compulsory. Today, primary schooling is
underpinned by a vast administrative subsystem, covering nearly 27 million
students, over 1.0 million teachers, principals and supervisors and 146,000
schools across 13,000 islands and 66,000 villages (Annex 3, Tables A and B).
All but two million (7 percent) primary students are accommodated in public
schools. (In contrast, at lower and upper secondary levels only 56 percent
and 42 percent respectively of the nearly eleven million students attend pub-
lic schools). There are also Islamic schools which some three million primary
students attend. These schools incorporate a general curriculum and are
supe- ised by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC), as are some
schools with a Christian heritage. Crer 50 percent of primary teachers are
women. The average age of the teacti.ng force is only 31 years (Annex 8c).
Since attrition rates are low, thpse teachers are likely to be teaching for
the next thirty or more years and professional development opportunities will
be essential.
1.3       Positive social effects known to be associated with educational
development followed the universalization of primary education. With more
women being educated, the fertility rate has declined by 40 percent since 1970



- 2 -
and the infant mortality rate has gone down by 70 percent since 1965, with
life expectancy improving from 42 to 63 years. Primary education has hitherto
played an important role in enhancing basic numeracy and literacy skills, &nd
in national integration, not least by disseminating Bahas# Indonesia as the
national language. The thrust of the Government's goals in the 1970s was to
expand primary school facilities, with the quality of education given lees
priority. Now that the facilities are in place and th& universalization goal
is achieved, the highest prioritv of the Government is to improve quality
throughout the education system, beginning with the base where academic fail-
ure and dropout need to be reduced. The Government is looking to primary
education to develop the new problem-solving skills and independent learning
habits which foster economic productivity and creativitv in modern society.
Since 1986, the previously rapid primary enrollment growth rate has levelled
off due to the fertility decline and this reduction of expansionary pressure
releases energies and resources to permit a thorough and sustained effort at
quality enh"ncement.
1.4       Central Administration and Organization.  The MOEC is a centra^
agency of Government responsible for national education policy and planning
(Chart 2). It influences educational quality standards throug.. its responsi-
bility for technical inputs such as curriculum, teacher training, program
guidelines and examinations and exercises quality control and pedagogical
inspection through its supervisors. The MOEC consists of four Directorates
GenerAl, including that for Primary and Secondary Education (DGPSE) which
performs line functions, a Secretariat General responsible for planning and
administration, an Inspectorate General and an Office of Educational Research
and Development which includes the Curriculum Development Center, the Research
Center and the Informatics Center. Other units report to the Secretary Gen-
eral and include the Libraries Directorate, the Book Center and the Education-
al Technology Center. The Directorates General, the Secretariat General, the
Office of Research and Development and the Inspectorate General are each
headed by echelon I officials directly appointed by the President and report-
ing directly to the Minister of Education autd Culture. There is also a
recently established parliamentary National Consultative Council on Education
which facilitates two-way exchange between the public and policy-makers.
1.5       Pri.rv Education Administration in the Provinces.  The MOEC has the
most dispersed infrastructure in the provinces of any sectoral ministry. As a
"vertical agency", the DGPSE operates through a network of offices at the
provincial, district and sub-district levels ir. 27 provinces, in 296 rural and
urban district offices and in 3,626 sub-districts. Based on public laws No.
65, 1951, and No. 5, 1974, and as part of wider multi-sectoral devolution, the
central government handed over to regional administrations responsibility for
the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the country's primary schools and
teacher administration, with the MOEC acting in an advisory and regulatory
capacity. In the 1970s, the regional administrations, headed by Governors and
reporting administratively to the Minister for Home Affairs (MOHA), imple-
mented the INPRES school construction program and appointed teachers and sup-
plied books as part of the INPRES three-classroom "package". With the expan-
sion of INPRES schools, regional administrations also set up a network of
regional administration education service offices (DINAS P&K) at provincial
and district levels (levels I and II), parallel to the MOEC administration.
Recently, some have established offices at the sub-district level also. The



-3-
r*sult is tht.t primary education is managed by two parallel administrations:
through the usntral MOEC and its offices at provincial, district and sub-
district levels, and through the MOHA and regional admiristrations down to
district, and sometimes sub-district, levels (para. 1.21).
1.6       Budgeting System.  The budgeting process for primary education is
likewise administratively complex and fragmented. Each channel operates dif-
ferently and budget proposals are prepared separately under different agencies
at national and regional level. The main public funds for primary education
are from the national budget (APBN) and the regional budget (APBD). Parental
expenditures in the form of school contributions (BP3/POMG) and direct commu-
nity expenditures for consumables are also important. Funds are channeled
mainly through t'he SDO (Regional Autonomy Budget Transfer) via the Ministry of
Finance (MOP) and the MOHA to the provinces and also through the sectoral
INPRES-SD via the National Development Planning Board (BAPPENAS) and MOHA
Directorate General of Regional Development (BANGDA) to regional administra-
tions. The SDO is in two parts, one for salaries and the other primary school
subsidy (SBPP) for nonsalary operations and recurrent expetditurea.  In the
past, INPRES-SD was used for school construction but, in recent years, it has
been adapted to provide discretionary grants dizectly to school principals to
raise school funds for operations and maintenance (O&M). There are also much
smaller budgets channeled through the MOEC's DIPs (development budget alloca-
tions) (e.g. for textbooks) and DIKe (recurrent budget allocations). Annex 5
shows recent changes in allocations to the various categories of expenditures
funded from the various budgetary channels.
1.7       Teacher SuPplY and Administration.  The Government has in the past
put gree.t efforts into expanding teacher training. But now there is an over-
supply of teachers nationally, the average teacher-pupil ratio amounting to a
generous 1:24.2. However, local shortages and surpluses occur because teach-
ers resist being appointed in schools for away from home or outside towns and
because methods of calculatirg teach.er requirements and teacher deployment and
allocation practices are inefficient 1/. Since 1951, regional administra-
tions have had the responsibility to ;-ezcruit, appoint, promote, transfer and
dismiss teachers on the technical recommendations of the MOEC. They also
authorize salary payments. But this administrative system does not guarantee
that teachers are posted where they are most needed an,' causes friction
between MOEC and DINAS ?&K staff and public disquiet.
1.8       Teacher Promotion.  The minority of civil servants in managerial
(structural) echelons benefit from a clear promotion pyramid and various
allowances and housing and transportation benefits supplementary to basic
salary. Primary teaL;hers form the largest single occupational category,
25 percent of the total 3.8 million civil servants, and do not receive the
full range and extent of these benefits. Like all civil servants, they are
assigned a rank and grade on entry and these determine salary levels (Annex 8,
Tables B and D).  Basic starting salar_es are under Rp 60,000 per month and,
because they are young, 60 pe.cenit of teaehers are at the lower end of the
1/   Dean Nielsen and Anthony Somerset, Indonesia:  Primaty Teacher Rducation
Study, final draft, Ministry of Education and Culturelworld Bank, May
1991.



- 4 -
scales. They enter at level IIa and until recently reached a ceiling at IIlb.
The promotion system has been based on career history (age, experience and
qualifications) and a performance evaluation (DP3) (Law No. 10, 1979). This
provided, in principle, for an annual performance rating by immediate supervi-
sors based on criteria such as loyalty, work performance, honesty and initia-
tive. In practice, there was more emphasis on seniority tha.; on performance.
Promotion was more or leos automatic but actual promotion took four years or
longer, partly because of a cumbersome review and approval process. in 1980,
the Government introduced the Functional Position System, developed by the
State Ministry for the Utilization of Government Apparatus (MENPAN), in an
effort to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the civil service (Law
No.3 on Ranking and Promotion of Civil Servants). Its objectives are to pro-
vide a means of developing the careers of technical staff, to reduce the ten-
dency to create structural positions as the only means of career development
and to develop joo classification as a first step towards a reformulation of
the salary structure. MENPAN decree No. 26, 1988, introduced a related credit
point system to provide better incentives and faster promotion possibilities
to teachers with good performance ratings.
1.9       Teacher Training.  It is an outstanding achievement in so large a
country that almost all teachers are trained and certificated. But pre-
service teacher education and training has recently lagged behind the moderni-
zation of curricula and related pedagogical innovations. Secondary level
training institutes (SPGs) are no longer adequate to train teachers in
advanced subject matter and have recently been phased out in favor of training
in tertiary level colleges (IKIPs). The Government has recently introduced a
new two-year post-secondary pre-service teacher training diploma course (D2)
to attract better educated recruits into primary teaching. Currsntly it
recruits 7,000 candidates a year, just sufficient numbers to cover losses to
the teaching force due to natural attrition and to introduce new blood.
Between 1990-93, 50,000 mid-career teachers will also be upgraded in subject
matter throigh an in-service D2 course which will provide promotional credit
points for participants who successfully complete the three-year part-time
program. Many more teachers are reportedly being recruited by private agen-
cies offering the D2 course. The main defect in both of these rapidly pre-
pared programs is that they are over-theoretical, do not relate to the every-
day problems and experience of classroom teaching and do not foster practical
skills development. Building on the experience of earlier in-service training
which lacked follow-up, the D2 will need to be followed up with regular pro-
fessional support to teachers on how to communicate the new subject matter.
If this is not done, value-added from the investment in upgrading is likely to
be lost.
1.10      Teacher Professional Development.  Over many years the Government
has encouraged small-scale innovative in-service projects to enhance teachers'
pedagogical skills but few have survived due to lack of sustainability and
replicability. An exception to this is an ongoing pilot program to provide
regular professional development for teachers (as contrasted with once-off
qualification upgrading like the D2,. This project began in 1979 in West
Java, and has survived and expanded. It provides professional support to
teachers in acquiring the skills to replace chalk-and-talk teaching and rote
learning methods with active, problem-solving approaches. The core of the
innovation is that school principals (head teachers) and teachers participate



- 6 -
icy of supplying free textbooks to all has become unaffordable, funding has
decreased and the Book Center is moving from book production to policy devel-
opment.
1.13      _ualitv Indicators.  As noted above, the goal of providing better
quality primary education was previously a lesser priority than expanding
access to all Indonesian children regardless of their socio-economic status.
Indonesian educationalists perceive clear links between school inputs (e.g.,
qualified teachers and good reading materials) and classroom processes (effec-
tive teaching-learning methods), which ultimately result in enhanced outputs
(reduced student dropout and higher learning achievement). They have accumu-
lated evidence that educational quality in the country is uneven and needs
overall enhancement by international or the best Asia regional standards.
Objective quality output indicators are not yet measurable by student achieve-
ment scores on assessments and examinations because the tests used are techni-
cally and administratively weak and need upgrading. But other indicators
consistently show that students have learning problems and under-achieve.
Repetition rates, for example, have averaged over ten percent for many years,
with an unacceptable 16 percent of students repeating grade 1. Dropout rates
have actually risen since 1984, with one million students a year dropping out
without graduating from grade 6. Input indicators of poor quality, such as
under-educated, under-qualified and unevenly distributed teachers and scarci-
ties of good classroom books and materials, are widespread. Process indica-
tors show that schools give insufficient time and attention to the core teach-
ing-learning processes. School principals (head teachers) focus too little on
developing and managing the schools' educational programs and too much on
routine administration. Teachers focus too little on instructional activities
and too much on classroom administration and discipline. However, it is
widely recognized today, in Indonesia as elsewhere, that educational quality
definitely needs enhancement to underpin human resource and socio-economic
development, but the quality improvement process is slow and uncertain and
requires a sustained effort.
B. Issues in the Ouality of Primary Education
1.14      As the Bank's Basic Education Study 2/ summarizes, several inter-
connected factors have contributed to poor and uneven primary education qual-
ity: (i) ineffective teaching-learning processes by under-educated and under-
trained teachers who lack professional support and promotion opportunities and
whose classrooms lack adequate supplies of good materials; (ii) an inequitable
funding system which means that schools in poor communities have a drab class-
room environment and little technical support for teachers; and (iii) a weak
institutional, budgetary and policy framework, which means that schools suffer
operationally.
Teachers
1.15      Outdated Classroom Pedagogy.  Teachers' knowledge and skills are
limited by their low levels of education and training to passive, chalk-and-
2/ Indonesia: Basic Education Study, Report No. 7841-IND, 1989.



- 5 -
in regular workshops as a peer group team, during which they develop the
school program and devise new approaches and materials for implementing the
curriculum and teaching and assessing students. Selected teachers are trained
as tutors and advisory teachers. Supervisors, tutors and curriculum experts
are trained in professional support (as contrasted with administrative super-
vision). The MOEC's Curriculum Development Center has spearheaded the inno-
vation and the pilot program has been phased in over ten years, with ODA/
British Council assistance, to sites in West Nusa Tenggara (NTB), North
Sumatra, South Sulawesi, Lampung, South Kalimantan and Central and West Java.
The original model has been flexibly adapted to different contexts, with
greater and lesser success. In some provinces Centers of Better Practice have
evolved. Sometimes clusters of neighboring primary schools (GUGUS SEKOLAH), a
core school (SD INTI) and satellite schools (SD IMBAS), have been organized.
The pilot program has fired public enthusiasm and schools throughout Indonesia
have adopted it, though sometimes with more enthusiasm than expertise. It is
now known as the Teacher Professional Support (SPP) and Student Active Learn-
ing (CBSA) System.
1.11      A recent mid-term evaluation report showed that the pilot project
was successful and merited expansion. It cautioned, however, that widespread
and too fast adoption put it at risk of dilution and ritualization by provid-
ing innovation in form only but not in substance. It pointed out that the
identification and training of good instructors and tutors is critically
important to success and that real, effective innovation in teaching-learning
processes is at risk where these change agents are not available. It advo-
cated more systematic monitoring of changes in teachers' "active" teaching
proficiency and in students' "active" learning. The plan is for continued
donor assistance for existing pilot project sites in West Java, NTB, North
Sumatra and South Sulawesi to help develop them into "beacon" centers to pro-
vide examples and know-how nationally and for the sites in East Java, Lampung
and South Kalimantan to continue on the current pattern. The other existing
sites will continue using local resources. The challenges now are to develop
a variety of sound models to suit local conditions and to move from the pilot
stage to dissemination.
1.12      Textbooks and Educational Materials.  Indonesia has attained a
remarkably high literacy level but only 27 percent of the population is esti-
mated to read anything at all on a daily basis. For Indonesia to compete with
comparable countries in socio-economic development, reading habits need to be
developed amongst youth starting in primary education. This has long been
recognized by the Government which has launched major textbook supply schemes
over two decades and has developed the MOEC Book Center (para. 2.2). But
weaknesses in the supply of good textbooks and printed materials still con-
strain the development of study skills. There is little user information
about the availability and quality of primary education materials of all kinds
and about the optimal levels of provision needed for teachers' guides, core
textbooks and supplementary and library books. There are few books to cater
to the specific needs of educational personnel such as principals and super-
visors. Distribution of free government textbooks from the Book Center in the
past has resulted in substantial inequality in provision because there were
not sufficient books for all schools, with the result that schools remote from
the MOEC provincial warehouses and local depots often went short whilst more
central schools in towns were over-supplied. In the last few years, the pol-



- 7 -
talk teaching and rote learning. This pedagogy is not appropriate to prepare
students as productive citizens. The new D2 in-service upgrading program
(para. 1.9) will focus on academic upgrading more than classroom skills; it
will not be readily available to all teachers and is not intended to provide
the ongoing professional support and development opportunities which the
youthful teaching force needs in order to attain and maintain acceptable stan-
dards of quality. Teacher professional development is also required and would
be better underpinned by the SPP/CBSA program (para. 1.10), made available on
a regular basis to teacher teams comprised both of those who have benefitted
from the D2 program and those who have not.
1.16      Poor Promotional Opportunities.  Good teachers who wish to remain in
the classroom have until recently faced a promotion barrier (para. 1.8). The
only way up was to become a school principal at level IIIa which took about 20
years to achieve. In addition, the number of school principal positions is
limited. The alternative was to move out of the classroom into office admin-
istration. Poor working conditions, promotion prospects and pay, combined
with inadequate training, is a situation which deters well-qualified people
from entering primary teaching, accounts for poor technical competence and
professional morale and results in teachers spending too little time in the
classroom. To try to address these problems, the new Functional Position
System and related credit point mechanism has been developed. MENPAN, jointly
with the MOEC, intends to move forward with operationalizing the scheme but it
still requires testing for feasibility and sustainability. As a start, the
procedures and processes for administering it need to be developed, evaluated
and costed. Also, the specific skills and functions of primary education
specialists need to be identified, taking into account the diversified oppor-
tunities opening up through the development of SPP/CBSA (Annex 8, Table A).
Then, possible promotional steps and the criteria for meeting them need to be
detailed. Finally, a cost-benefit analysis needs to be conducted to evaluate
the scheme's long term viability and potential effectiveness.
Inadequate Classroom Environment
1.17      Teachers report that they rarely use the free government textbooks
(para. 1.12) because they cannot cope with contents not sequenced precisely in
line with curriculum guides and because the books contain more material than
they can teach. They sometimes encourage parents to buy books but good ones
are few and far between and booksellers exist only in urban areas, mainly in
Java and Sumatra. Primary school libraries contain uniform collections and
are not popular with teachers and children. Principals and teachers need
training in how to use school libraries and materials. Teachers need to be
trained how to adapt and improve on existing reference materials to match new
teaching-learning methods, the revised 1994 curriculum and local curriculum
content. Student active learning methods call for new kinds of published
library books, textbooks, curricular and teachers' guides. But ne_.ther gov-
ernment agencies nor publishers are equipped to develop this range of books
because skills in authorship, editing, book design, publishing, production,
and distribution are in very short supply. Training in printed materials
development and publishing does not exist outside Java and needs to be
expanded. The MOEC recognizes that further primary education book policy
developmer.t is needed to provide an ample supply of good, affordable reading
materials. The MOEC's Book Center is still a fledgling institution but it



- 8 -
could davelop ita capacity, with the support of the MOEC Directorate of Pri-
mary Education (DPE) and the National Book Advisory Board, to set up and coor-
dinate a national policy and plan for book development. But any reform effort
is severely handicapped, not only because there is currently little institu-
tional capacity to develop policy, but also because of the multiplicity and
fragmentation of central and provincial agencie3 involved in the administra-
tion of book appraisal and supply. The system is not responsive to local
needs and needs to be reformed.
Fundint Inadesuacies
1.18      Under-funding of primary education from public funds has been a
general and chronic problem and is still a serious constraint on quality
improvement.   Less than five percent of routine expenditures go towards meet-
ing schools' operational needs. The SBPP subsidy (para. 1.6) is inadequate
even to maintain current quality standards, amounting to only Rp 78 billion in
1990-91. The Government is aware that operational under-funding threatens to
undermine its attempts to improve primary education quality and has recently
begun to address this issue by increasing budget allocations for primary edu-
cati.in. Even with the additional INPRES-SD funds for O&M, the budget remains
insufficient to meet adequate quality standards (Annex 5). The combined per
student subsidy in 1990/91 for educational supplies and other operational
needs, excluding maintenance, was only Rp 4,858.
1.19      Ineauitv in Public Sector Provision.  There are some exceptional
MOEC, private and religious schools where wealthy communities supply up to 60
percent of school funds. These sizeable parental contributions provide ample
supplies of teaching and learning materials, as well as professional and
financial incentives to motivate teachers and ensure that the school is
accountable to the community for delivering good quality education. But many
public schools rely heavily on inadequate public subsidies for school quality
inputs and provide an inferior teaching-learning environment. Experience with
the SPP/CBSA pilot project has shown that necessary financial support for
teachers' working groups and additional materials currently comes from paren-
tal contributions, some supplementary local government funds and teachers' own
pockets. If government resources are not increased, teachers and children
from schools without private resources are unlikely to benefit from SPP/CBSA
and the policy of nationwide dissemination of quality improvement will be at
risk.
1.20      Lack of resources for improving classroom teaching and learning is a
very serious problem for schools in the poorest communities which cannot
afford to make financial contributions to schools. To improve school quality
and to underpin the Government's efforts in poverty alleviation, there is need
to give these "under-served" schools higher priority in the allocation of
national funds for primary education. Until now, the practice has been to
allocate the same amount of funds to all schools regardless of their communi-
ties' economic resource base. But for the future the concept of targeting the
poorest schools to receive compensatory public funds is to be introduced. It
would be extremely important that these funds reach the schools efficiently,
that they are used effectively for quality improvement and that the innovation
is sustainable.



- 9 -
Weak Subsector Capacitv to Manage Quality Improvement
1.21      Uncoordinated Administrative Support for Quality Improvement.  The
divided responsibility between regional administrations and the MOEC for pri-
mary education administration (para. 1.5) has weakened the management of qual-
ity improvement efforts and service delivery because precise accountability
has been difficult to assign in cases where administration has broken down.
This has often occurred over book deliveries, teacher deployment and salary
administration.I/ The underly..ng substantive issue is whether regional
administrations or a central government agency (MOEC) should administer pri-
mary school budgets and personnel, or whether the prevailing dual administra-
tion should be continued and made more workable, effective and efficient as
"co-administration". The Government recognizes that this issue needs to be
resolved. It is currently conducting multi-sectoral reviews of the autonomy
laws and intends to use this process to smooth o4t the inconsistencies in the
statutory framework of primary education in order to strengthen administrative
support to schools and teachers. Meanwhile, responsibilities for primary
education administration will continue as before under the prevailing system.
To try to improve workability, effectiveness and efficiency, task analysis
needs to be undertaken, actual job assignments in primary education adminis-
tration at provincial, district and sub-district levels need to be reviewed
and the appropriate retraining for MOEC and DINAS P&K staff needs to be
designed and introduced. This would help provide greater accountability and
efficiency in delivering routine services to schools. The long term impact on
effectiveness in terms of quality improvement would need to be monitored and
evaluated. At the same time workable administrative innovations for imple-
menting and disseminating SPP/CBSA and supplying the poorest under-served
schools need to be put in place.
1.22      Uncoordinated Budget Planning.  Quality improvement initiatives are
hampered by several related weaknesses in budget planning (para. 1.6). One
general problem is that the budget planning time-scale is limited to one year
which hinders long term planning of quality improvement programs. A second
problem is the fragmentation of the budget planning process between several
agencies and the multiplicity of budgetary sources and channels. This means
that national and provincial level budgetary planners do not have an overview
of consolidated information on budgetary allocations and expenditures for
primary education. A third problem is that budgeting is too top-down and
rigidly earmarked so that planners cannot base plans on correct information
about school needs and school principals cannot use funds for specific local
needs which are not earmarked. The result is that mismatches occur between
3/ A new law, PP. No. 28, 1990, reaffirms the MOEC's authority to set qual-
ity standards and assigns to it a much larger share of responsibility for
primary education administration, including teachers and materials,
whilst the regional administration's sphere of authority would be reduced
to land acquisition, construction and maintenance of facilities. The
intention behind the law is to reduce the weaknesses in accountability
caused by divided administration but its implementation is to be delayed
pending the updating of legislation on the broader roles of central and
regional administrations.



- 10 -
resources from the national government and school needs. More discretion in
the use of school funds by vell trained school principals is essential because
the new professional support system (SPP) trains teachers to use more varied
and more locally-adapted teaching materials and more flexible application of
their training than previously. An important related factor is the lack of
realistic standards for determining the total funding requirements of a qual-
ity-oriented primary education system. Estimates of the marginal cost of
school quality improvements are hard to make when total expenditures on pri-
mary education are unknown, gains in student outcomes as a result of quality
improvement inputs are not measured systematically and planners do not have
the capacity to propose budgets on the basis of objectively documented educa-
tional needs. All these weaknesses render planning of quality improvement
difficult by denying planners at national, provincial and school levels an
objective view on resource allocations, opportunity costs and trade-offs
amongst different programs and by reducing their scope for rational decision-
making.
1.23      Weak Policy. Management and Monitoring Capacitv.  Education policy
and quality assurance is the MOEC's responsibility. Providing administrative
support to personnel and schools to keep them operating effectively is the
responsibility of the DINAS P&K. The current Fifth Five-Year Plan (1989/90 -
1994/95) mandates the first systematic, nation-wide quality improvement pro-
gram for primary education (para. 1.24). This requires greatly enhanced
institutional capacity at central and local levels in order to cope well with
the scale and scope of the program. The central MOEC DPE will play the lead
role in national policy formulation, standard-setting, program coordination
and provision of monitoring guidelines. For this, institutional development
and enhanced support for the DPE from other MUEC and non-MOEC agencies
involved in primary education is needed. Staff development programs should
therefore involve personnel from all related agencies and train them to work
collaboratively. At the provincial level, MOEC, DINAS P&K, and Regional
Development Planning Board (BAPPEDA) staff similarly require training in coor-
dinated, multi-year planning, programming, managing and monitoring of quality
improvement programs. At the district level, personnel of these agencies
require training in their expanded implementation responsibilities. At the
sub-district level, staff and school supervisors need orientation to goals and
programs to be implemented and their specific responsibilities in carrying out
implementation instructions. At school level, because the role of principals
in developing and implementing the schools' quality improvement programs is to
be expanded, training ar.d support is critical. In order to ensure that the
training is effective, institutional analvses, task analyses, revision of job
descriptions and training needs assessments are required.
C. Government Strategy for Basic Education
1.24      During the Fifth (1989/90 - 1994/95) and Sixth (1995/96 - 1999/2000)
Five-Year Plans, the thrust of the Government's strategy for the entire educa-
tion system is to develop the quality of the human resources emerging from it,
consistent *with the country's socio-economic potential over the long term



- 11 -
25-year plan period.4/ A critical sectoral goal is to universalize basic
education, which has been re-defined to cover grades 1-9, by raising lower
secondary enrollment rates. This requires that a higher proportion of primary
students (now 52 per-ent) graduate successfully from grade 6 and are well
prepared to cope with lower secondary education. The key policies designed to
improve the quantity and quality of output from primary education focus on
improving the quality of classroom instruction. To accomplish this, the Gov-
ernment is concentrating its efforts on improving the quality of inputs into
the primary classroom, especially teachers and materials, in order ultimately,
to improve teaching-learning behavior. To this end, the educational entry
level of recruits for primary teacher training has been raised and teachers'
promotion opportunities through the Functional Position System have been
enhanced. A revised, more locally-relevant curriculum is being developed and
modern pedagogical methods are being disseminated nationally based on student
active learning (CBSA). The new curriculum and CBSA methods would also be the
basis for the new D2 teacher training and for textbook development. The Gov-
ernment has also identified other related goals for the capacity of the educa-
tion system in general, including improving educational opportunities in rural
and remote areas for the disadvantaged, increasing parental and community
involvement in schools, improving planning and management training at all
levels and upgrading the classroom environment through more attention to oper-
ations and maintenance of school facilities.
1.25      To underscore the importance of the proposed project in the Govern-
ment's efforts to improve quality in primary education, a Joint Statement,
dated May 7, 1991, has been issued between the MOEC and MOHA to support its
objectives and its implementation under the prevailing administrative system.
This landmark document endorses the establishment of a national Inter-agency
Steering Committee (ISC) to ensure full participation of all related partners
at central government level and the involvement of the related work units of
regional administrations. Both the MOEC and the MO9A would provide funding
support. Furthermore, in a letter to the Bank dated November 27, 1991, the
Chairman of the ISC and Director General of Primary and Secondary Education,
MOEC, affirmed the Government's commitment to piloting, and after successful
assessment, expanding activities designed to target compensatory funds for
quality improvement to primary schools in the poorest villages where parents
are unable to make school contributions.
II. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. Background
2.1       Since the Bank Group's first project with the MOEC in 1970, 16 edu-
cation projects (US$1,108 million total) have been approved in the education
sector. Nine projects have been completed. In addition to projects with
MOEC, the Bank has supported training in specialist and professional fields
through ten free standing projects in several other Ministries (US$700 million
4/   The New Education Policy, 1988 and Basic Law No. 2, 1989 on The Education
Svstem.



- 12 -
total) (Annex 18). Over this period Bank strategy has evolved from an initial
emphasis on assistance to training to alleviate the critical shortage of tech-
nical personnel, to an increasing emphasis on quality issues, and then to a
wider sectoral emphasis on investment programs and policy reforms. In 1975,
the Education Sector Survey 5/ helped the Bank formulate a coherent lending
strategy for the Bank and initiate an effective policy dialogue with the Gov-
ernment. Subsequent subsector reports 6/ have helped the Bank to move to
sector lending and to deepen the relevant policy dialogues. Although Bank
lending to Indonesia has to a large extent mirrored the evolution of Bank-wide
policies, Indonesia's Bank-assisted projects have also been at the cutting
edge, including, for example, the first free-standing textbook and nonformal
education projects.
2.2       In the 1970's and early 1980's the Government undertook with its own
resources an ambitious program to expand enrollments in primary and secondary
education whilst the Bank complemented these efforts with assistance to
infrastructural development in the first Texttook and Teacher Training proj-
ects. In the 1980's Bank attention shifted to subsector quality improvement
and development of management capacity. Thle bhift was particularly marked in
a first Secondary Education and Management Training project which put in place
a. in-service teacher upgrading program to raise quality in science, mathema-
tics and English, and introduced a management information system (MIS) and
institutional development through management training. An ongoing follow-up
project, Secondary Education and Management, has extended this strategy. The
recently completed Second Textbook and Teacher Training projects also focused
on quality improvement and institutional development by developing materials
and training managerial and technical staff, whilst continuing to expand
infrastructure.
2.3       The Bank initiated its involvement in primary education as a result
of its recent dialogue with the Government on z e Basic Education Study, 1989.
This study pinpointed the poor quality of primary education as a critical
defect at the base of the education system, analyzed the main factors prevent-
ing quality improvement and documented specific needs in policy development
and action.
5/ Indonesia: Education Sector Survey, Report No. 4439, 1975.
-6/ General Secondary Education in Indonesia: Issueat and Programs of Action,
Report No. 4954-IND, 1984; Final Status Report on the Higher Education
Sector, 1986.



- 13 -
Table 2.1s PRISUY  DUCATION SUUSZCTOR-RELATED COPLEMD AND ONGOING PROJECTS
AUD PROJZCT COHPLETION A11D PZROPXRNCE AUI.IT RWPORTS
Original    PM        PCR
Credit/Loan   Date.                        Loen/Crodit    vetort 
Ref.  No.    Z.:4eetiv!  n..to-ae  Project       0USS a)  go  Date   o.  Dat
1  Credit 387  June 1973    Dec 1981  Third Education (First Textbook)  13.5  4502  fA  4562  1983
2   Loan 1433  June 1977    Kay 1965  Fiftb Zducation (First Teacher  19.0  6315  1986
Training)
I   Loan 1468  Dec  1977    Jan 1964  Nonforual Educatiot  15.0  6304  1986
4   Loan 2102  Jun. 1982    Dec 196  Second Textbook  25.0    la  9107  1990
5   Loan 2101  Ia   1982    June 1990    Second Teacher Training  80.0   a
8   Loan 2355  Z.   1984    Sept 1990    Second Nonforual Zducation  43.0
7   Loan 2472  Jan  1985    Sept 1990    Secondary Education and  78.0   a
Hanaegeent Training
*   Loon 3158  mar  1990   Second Secondary Education and  154.2
Henagement
L   In preparation.
B. Leosons of Exlerience
2.4      Project Completion Reports (PCRs), Project Performance Audit Reports
(PPARs) and an Impact Evaluation Report show that many of the specific lessons
of experience of projects in the education sector have been incorporated into
succeeding project designs. For example, useful lessons have been learned
about institutional development, such as to: (a) situate Project Management
Units within existing structures; (b) ensure the early appointment and conti-
nuity of key project staff; (c) ensure adequate coordination and communication
among implementing agencies; and (d) provide pre-departure language training
for overseas fellows. Some broader themes have also emerged from experience
in both completed and current projects. In many instances, the ongoing expe-
rience gained through supervision is more relevant, given the substantial
changes in project focus and design that have occurred over the past two
decades. For the proposed project, supervision experience for the Third
Health project (Loan 3042) has guided project management and implementation
arrangements since both projects are provincially-based human resource sector
operations.
2.5      Policy Dialozue.  The studies mentioned above underpinned the Bank's
shift to policy oriented projects and a sector-wide approach in higher and
secondary education. The major issues around which dialogue continues are
improvements in quality, efficiency, equity and financing. These are outlined
in guidelines, implemented through agreed action programs and, in higher edu-
cation, supported by the Bank through a time slice of the expenditure program.
As this approach has proved successful in terms of policy formulation and
implementation, it is expected that it will be continued in future operations.
The primary subsector is relatively weak but it is expected that a similar
approach will be possible as experience grows in implementing Bank-assisted
projects.
2.6      Quality impact.  The quantitative or physical targets of nearly all
projects have been attained and in most cases exceeded. However, the theme
emphasized in many PCRs and PPARs is that a systematic assessment of projects'
impact on educational quality was not previously undertaken. Building on this
finding, more recent projects have made a better effort to systematically
assess projects' impact on educational quality. The first Higher Education
Development Project, for example, established a monitoring and evaluation
system with a set of indicators to evaluate university performance on a. regu-



- 14 -
lar basis. However, experience in the sector has indicated that policy
improvements are necessarily difficult to implement and require a longer time-
frame than that provided by a single project. The most successful reforms
have been in the higher education sector, but this has taken over a decade to
achieve and is far from complete. Experience also indicates that B:ank opera-
tions should phase policy reform gradually.
2.7       Institutional DeveloDment.  Management of education programs in the
context of a large ministry such as the MOEC is intrinsically complex. Frag-
mentation of planning activities in MOEC has also made it difficult to ensure
coherence, consistency and coordination among individual programs. Thus,
institutional development has been only partially successful, despite the
attempts in most projects to strengthen management and administration of edu-
cational programs. This has been recognized in PCRs and PPARs. Based on this
experience, the Bank has adopted a coordinated approach to institutional
development under several recent projects by supporting integrated management
training programs and systems development and testing alternative approaches
to improved monitoring and evaluation. While individual projects will con-
tinue strengthening project management units and Directorates General, this
will be achieved within the framework of the assistance being developed for
the MOEC as a whole.
2.8       The more intractable institutional issue leading to poor quality is
the absence of promotion and professional development opportunities, low sala-
ries and lack of incentives for educational personnel. This problem has not
been resolved in the last two decades. Ad hoc attempts to provide incentives
have been tried under individual projects but have not proven sustainable.
Recent initiatives to improve incentives and the quality of the teaching force
include the establishment of the Functional Position System and related per-
formance-based credit points (para. 1.8). This is now fully operational in
higher education but needs to be tested thoroughly because it may lack feasi-
bility in the massive primary education system.
2.9       TraininR.  Staff development through pre-service and in-service
training and fellowship programs has been a central element in many projects
in the education sector. However, PPARs, particularly on the earlier proj-
ects, have pointed out that monitoring of progress in staff training, beyond
the disbursement of funds and the number of staff months of funding used, has
been poor. Subsequent career patterns and the impact of trained personnel on
their work units have not been included as part of the project design. For
overseas fellowships, particularly in earlier projects, the Bank gave inade-
quate attention to the selection, administration, and eventual functions of
returnees. The evidence available indicates that problems of appropriate
selection and training, and re-entry and utilization of trainees are common.
No project in the MOEC has so far provided for the monitoring and evaluation
of its fellowship program except for a limited evaluation under the Second
Teacher Training Project.
2.10      Technical Assistance (TA) and Studies.  These two areas have not
been systematically analyzed in all PCRs and PPARs. TA has been used not only
for equipment procurement, civil works and specialist services, but also for
administering fellowship programs. Experience with TA seems to be positive in
most projects, with the exception of the university development projects. T.e



- 15 -
experience with studies, largely from ongoing projects, has been disappoint-
ing. Studies have lacked sufficient analysis to be of value, particularly
those done by local consultants. Insufficient attention has been paid to the
adequacy of the terms of reference, selection of consultants, and supervision
and follow-up of work done. Recommendations to address these issues have been
included in a recently completed Bank staff study on TA in Indonesia.
2.11      Dec-ncentration.  One of the more positive achievements in the sec-
tor is that, although never explicitly stated as an objective, projects in
both the nonformal and higher education subsectors have contributed to the
deconcentration of activities, i.e., the delegation of responsibility for
specific tasks by the MOEC to its sub-national units.2/ In nonformal educa-
tion, the PPAR for the first project comments favorably that annual program-
ming and budgeting, training and implementation have already been deconcen-
trated to the provincial and district levels thereby bringing program design
closer to the learning locale. In higher education, university management has
been delegated to individual institutions with resultant financial autonumy.
The process of deconcentration of educational activities in the secondary
subsector is also underway. Experience of deconcentrated programs in nonfor-
mal education projects is substantial and shows that they are complex, geo-
graphically dispersed, have a heavy bias on software components, and demand
more intensive field supervision during implementation with more diverse
inputs and assistance required than regular reviews carried out by the Bank.
Primary education shares these characteristics. Moreover, it is not the sole
responsibility of one agency (paras. 1.21 and 2.18), as are tertiary, secon-
dary and nonformal education. This makes project and program design and
implementation even more complex.
2.12      Financing and Equity.  Education at all levels suffers from inade-
quate recurrent funds. Budget cuts have affected the implementation of ongo-
ing projects and have caused problems for the sustainability of completed
projects. Primary education is particularly vulnerable because it is very
reliant on operational funds from multiple sources, which are liable to be
reduced unsystematically in periods of stringency, and on parental and commu-
nity voluntary contributions, the level of which also varies according to the
economic climate. The country's previous application of equity principles in
the period of expansion was to provide the same level of public funding
regardless of ability to pay. Now, in its efforts to alleviate poverty, the
Government is introducing a more fine-tuned concept of equity, i.e. funding
measures which target additional resources to the poor (para. 2.14).
g.ustainability and Replicabilitv
2.13      On the basis of the sustainability indicators developed by the
Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (inputs, outputs, efficiency, quality
i/   Jerry M. Silverman, Public Sector Decentralization:  Economic Policy
Reform and Sector Investment Programs, Africa Technical Department, World
Bank, November 1990; Donald Winkler, Decentralization of the Social Ser-
vices, in the LAC Connection: News in Human Resources, Vol. 3, No. 3,
World Bank, May 1991.



- 16 -
and spinoff effects), it waa concluded that the evaluation of sustainability
in education projects is more difficult than in other sectors where easily
identifiable outcome measures are possible. However, the evaluation of the
First and Second Education Projects conclude. that these early projiets demon-
strated a moderate level of sustainability 8/. Experience has been varied
on replicability, or whether improvements in a specific project can be used to
benefit other projects, or the rest of the subsector. For example, innova-
tions like the cascade method of training have been replicable atid used in
other projects and other sectors but the learning resource centers under the
First Teacher Training Project were under-utilized and therefore not continued
in the next project. the above study shows the importance of clearly identi-
fying indicators of sustainability in project design and tho need to improve
both Government and Bank efforts to monitor project performance against appro-
priate indicators.
C. Bank Strategy
t214      Overall Bank strategy for Indonesia recognizes that investing in
people will continue to be a critical ingredient for improving human health
and welfare, slowing the rate of population growth and enhancing the skills,
productivity and employment prospects of the labor force. These investments
will not only provide vital support for more rapid economic growth, but will
alco contribute to the goal of more equitable participation, by women as well
as men, in the development process. Rapid growth alone, however, will not be
sufficient to ensure continued progress in the reduction of absolute poverty
in'Indonesia, especially in the eastarn islands and among the more disadvan-
taged groups and resource-poor areas in Java. In addition to the expansion of
basic social infrastructure and services, greater attention will be required
to policies and expenditures that will improve the access of the poor to key
social services, especially health and nutrition, basic education and safe
water and sanitation. It will be equally important to improve the access of
the poor to productive resources, through more balanced regional growth and
development programs aimed at pockets of poverty wherever they may exist.
2.15      As noted above, the Government's subsector pricrities are to extend
ant universalize basic education, improve teaching and learning and reduce
sttudent wastage. The Bank is playing a major role in helping to implement
thi.s approach. Key elements in the strategy include: targeting additional
reoa,rces to specific provinces and disadvantaged schools to engender quality
enbancement; capacity and policy building in materials and book development;
tesoing the feasibility of a performance-based promotion scheme for education-
al pcrsonnell building up management and monitoring capacity in the central
and provincial MOEC and implementasion capacity at district levels for MOEC
and DINAS P&K personnel; strengthening provincial capacity to develop curric-
ula; expanding pilot-tested programs of in-service teacher training, improving
pre-service teacher training programs; establishing guidelines and mechanisms
for determining resource requirements, including teachers, in varied locali-
ties, and for assessing teacher and student proficiency; developing new con-
8/   Impact Evaluation Report:  Indonesia:  Sustainability of the First and
Second Education Proiects, Report No. 7767, 1989.



- 17 -
tent, delivery and evaluation for existing nonformal literacy programs which
will be extended to provide lower secondary level equivalency; providing scho-
larships to enable low income literacy program partUcipants to enter private
vocational institutes; and encouraging quality improvements in the vocational
schools serving poor trainees.
2.16      The Bank's program in basic and general education will be channeled
through a number of inter-linked lending operations, including the ongoing
Second Secondary Education and Management Project (Loan 3158) whose goal is to
improve educational quality and MOEC internal organizational coordination and
efficiency. It is anticipated that this will be complemented by a Secondary
Teacher Development Project to improve the supply and quality of secondary
teachers. Similarly, the goal of the proposed Primary Education Quality
Improvement Project to improve quality and develop related management and
funding capacity in primary education is to be complemented by a Primary
Teacher Development Project to improve pre- and in-service teacher training
quality and management capacity in primary teacher training and supply. The
Third Nonformal Education Project, approved in December 1991, would assist the
MOEC in extending literacy p-ograms equivalent to the lower secondary level,
developing the quality of existing nonformal programs and providing income
earning opportunities for participants.
2.17      The proposed Primary Education Quality Improvement Project would be
the first major Bank-assisted effort in Indonesia to address quality issues in
primary education. It poses a number of educational, administrative, finan-
cial and policy challenges which provide a strong rationale for a supportive
Bank presence. But the project would realistically be only a first step along
the quality improvement route, which world-wide experience has shown is
extremely long, uphill and difficult to negotiate.9/ For this reason, and
because the Government and the Bank are inexperienced as partners in primary
education, the project would address a limited number of issues, leaving
others to the anticipated future series of follow-up projects, based on evalu-
ation of the approaches and policies to be introduced in this initial project
and complementary initiatives.
2.18      The proposed project's content and design are supported by the fol-
lowing: (1) The Bank's 1991 Assessment of Two Decades of Lendinz in the coun-
try prepared by OED (Report No. 9752) and ongoing Bank experience in the coun-
try (e.g. not introducing all policy innovations nationally but in only a few
provinces, as in the Third Health Project; (ii) Bank sector work, most
recently the Basic Education Study, which built on existing Indonesian
research and analyzed key issues with policy recommendations, indicating that
single-pronged policies for quality improvement, planned and managed cen-
trally, (e.g. textbook supply) are less effective than multi-pronged policies
addressing teacher, management and school resource issues together (a "pack-
age" approach); (iii) world-wide educational research; (iv) basing innovatory
teacher development activities on a well-tried indigenous pilot project; (v)
using or adapting existing organizational and institutional set-ups and mech&-
nisms rather than creating new ones (e.g. budgetary sources and channels); and
9| Marlaine F. Lockheed and Adriaan Verspoor, Improvina Primary Education in
Developing Countries, World Bank, 1990.



- 18 -
(vi) specific training linked to specific task analysis and functions for
educational personnel in both the MOEC and the DINAS P&K, in order to build
local capacities. In regard to this last point, the proposed project is
designed to accommodate evolving central-regional relationships. In accord-
ance with government policy it would help specify and develop the roles of the
central MOEC to provide overall policy guidance, planning, coordination and
standards in quality improvement in primary education, develop and specify the
roles of the provincial MOEC and DINAS P&K in detailed policy, planning and
monitoring and develop and specify implementation and supervision responsibil-
ities of district level MOEC and DINAS P&K staff. Sub-district personnel
would be expected to act on the implementing instructions of the district.
Finally, in some innovative aspects (e.g. channeling funds to targeted benefi-
ciaries and consolidating budgets), the project experience from other sectors
has been incorporated, in particular the East Java and Bali Urban Development
(Loan 3304-IND) and the ongoing Third Health Projects.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin
3.1       In February 1990, following discussion of the Basic Education Study,
the Government of Indonesia requested the Bank's assistance to improve the
quality of primary education through implementation of an innovative in-
service teacher professional support (SPP) program and new pedagogical methods
(CBSA). This p,ogram had already been piloted in six provinces and in Septem-
ber 1990 had bea evsluated as a successful innovation (paras. 1.10- 1.11).
However, the lzittial project proposals did not address the issue of inequity
in the provisto.~! of good quality primary education, nor the complex budgetary
and administrrti;e issues which act as critical constraints on development of
the subsector. After further discussion, it was agreed that the proposed
project 10/ woulc provide budgetary support not only for the implementation
of the teacher . ;.fessional development program, but also for the provision of
additional inputs to improve quality in schools in poor communities and the
introduction of mu Xsures to enhance policy and budgetary and administrative
support to primarv schools.
B. Geographical Scope
3.2       The project would provide support to six provinces, Aceh, Bali,
North Sulawesi, East Nusa Tenggara (NTT), West Sumatra and Yogjakarta, to
expand and develop SPP/CBSA (paras. 3.6-3.11). In two of these provinces, NTT
and West Sumatra, the project would pilot a program to supply compensatory
funds and would expand the scheme if it proved successful (paras. 3.12-3.15).
Also, in NTT and West Sumatra, the project would introduce and monitor mea-
sutres to enhance budgetary and administrative support to primary schools
(paras. 3.16-3.18), with a view to further policy formwiltion and more wide-
spread institutional reform. Annex 4 provides a profile of these two prov-
.lQ/ Referred to as PEQIP, ?rimary Education Quality Improvement Project.



- 19 -
inces and Annex 6 indicates which provinces would participate in the various
project activities. At the national level, the project would also assist in
enhancing MOEC institutional capabilities (paras. 3.19-3.20).
C. Proiect Obiective and DescriRtion
3.3       The project's objective is to introduce policies and mechanisms to
improve primary education quality aimed at raising student achievement and
completion rates. This would be achieved by:
A.   Improving Teaching-Learning Processes;
B.   Providing Special Assistance (an Equitable Resource Base) for Under-
served Schools; and
C.   Enhancing Capacity to Manage Quality Improvement Programs.
3.4       The Government's New Education Policy 1988 and Basic Law No.2 1989
provide the project with some elements for a subsector policy framework under
Fifth and Sixth Five-Year Plans (para. 1.24). At negotiations, the Government
agreed to carry out the project in accordance with an Action Plan for Primary
Education Policy and Program Development, satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 1)
(para. 6.1(a)).
3.5       Three-year SPP/CBSA plans in six provinces II/ were drawn up by
the Provincial MOEC offices within guidelines set out by the Directorate of
Primary Education (DPE). Three-year integrated expenditure plans, which would
eventually include funds from all identified sources for all planned primary
education expenditures, were similarly drawn up for NTT and West Sumatra. The
overall format of the draft plans and programs for the first year were
appraised as satisfactory. Subsequent years would be reviewed and revised
during project implementation. Annex 2 provides the guidelines by which these
plans were appraised. Annex 6 shows the proposed scope of the project by
province.
A. Imnrovinx Teachinz-Learning Processes (estimated cost US$25.5 million)
3.6       This component would provide technical assistance, training, materi-
als and equipment, vehicles and operational support for:
(a)  Teacher Professional DeveloRment Program.   It would assist the
expansion and development of a national system of on-the-job Teacher Profes-
sional Support (SPP) in "Student Active Learning" (CBSA) (Annex 7).  It V-ould
strengthen the SPP/CBSA innovation as a complement to the D2 program by intro-
ducing it in selected provinces which have not yet benefited. It would estab-
lish the SPP/CBSA program at project sites in six provinces (nine school clus-
ters in one district, (three per sub-district], per province). The six prov-
inces span richer and poorer islands of both east and west of the country.
The project sites have been selected because regional administrations support
11/ Referred to subsequently as "the six SPP/CBSA provinces".



- 20 -
the innovation, because the MOEC views them as having potential to develop
useful and varied models of the innovation and because they represent a range
of wealthier to poorer sub-distr:icts in urban and semi-rural areas. The
school clusters (GUGUS SEKOLAH) comprise one core school (SD INTI) and nearby
satellite schools (SD IMBAS). The core school would normally serve as a
teaching-learning resource center.  SPP/CBSA is designed to foster profes-
sional support and academic leadership for teachers by principals, supervis-
ors, advisory teachers, tutors, instructors and curriculum developers, and to
introduce peer training amongst classroom teachers in regular, structured
teachers' group workshops, to enable them to select and apply a wide range of
activity-based, problem-solving teaching methods. The project would provide
on-site train4g for approximately 700 teachers, principals, supervisors,
tutors and education managers per district, along with other training at sub-
district, district, provincial and national levels. Training conducted at
district level for teachers and principals would be provided by a group of
specially trained tutors recruited from the district. These tutors would also
act in a support capacity to teachers in school to follow up on the teachers'
workshops. Training for supervisors, education managers and for district
tutors and instructors would be corducted at regional centers or at the
national level, and study tours to the pilot project sites would be arranged.
Selected education managers from the district and provincial offices would
participate in special management training programs in Indonesia or overseas.
Experience from the pilot project has shown that the appointment of selected
classroom teachers to become full-time tutors, to follow up in school the
training teachers receive in workshops, is critical for success in changing
teaching-learning behavior. At negotiations, the Government agreed that it
would, by October 1, 1992, appoint SPP/CBSA tutors in SPP/CBSA provinces in
accordance with conditions of service satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.1(b)).
Further understanding was reached that they would be appointed without risk to
their posts and promotional opportunities and would receive due credit and
allowances as may be determined, for carrying out their responsibilities,
according to the job descriptions as tutors, as specified for the purpose of
implementing the SPP/CBSA program. The Director General of the DGPSE plans to
instruct the Provincial Heads of the MOEC to this effect.
3.7       An integral part of SPP/CBSA would be formative activities on pro-
fessional support for active teaching-learning. The goals would be to provide
feedback to schools to enhance their own implementation of SPP/CBSA and report
on the variety of approaches used and their usefulness. Specific, small-scale
initiatives would be selected and carried out by SPP/CBSA practitioners in the
six provinces, linked to the ongoing SPP/CBSA pilot program, and with techni-
cal assistance in design from the MOEC Office of Research and Development.
The activities would focus on topics such as the development of models for
implementing, enhancing and sustaining innovation in active teaching-learning
for quality improvement through: (i) role development and in-service training
of SPP/CBSA personnel (e.g. tutors, supervisors); (ii) institutional develop-
ment (e.g. School Clusters, Teachers' Groups, Teaching-Learning Resource Cen-
ters and Curriculum and Materials Development Workshops; and (iii) formulation
of school quality standards and the human and physical resource requirements
for implementing "active" teaching-learning (which would be coordinated with a
parallel exercise on costs) (para. 3.18, para. 3.19(ivj and para. 3.9(iii)).



- 21
3.8       (b)  Enhancing Promotion Opportunities for Primary Teachers.  This
subcomponent would provide technical assistance, training and operational
support for a feasibility study which would provide recommendations for intro-
ducing better promotion opportunities for primary teachers (Annex 8, Table A).
Related case studies would be carried out in selected provinces, beginning in
NTT and West Sumatra (Annex 1(B)). The study would analyze current regula-
tions pertaining to primary teachers' roles, responsibilities, workload, skill
requirements and conditions of service, and would develop revised job descrip-
tions for teachers and related personnel (para. 3.17) to reflect changes
needed to implement SPP/CBSA. The Functional Position System and the Related
Credit Point Allocation System would be studied, including the cost, the
administrative framework required, any changes implied for the current teacher
evaluation system and the linkages of SPP/CBSA credit points with D2 upgrad-
ing. The study would make recommendations on the development of appropriate
mechanisms for enhancing promotion opportunities for primary teachers, both
women and men, and provide terms of reference for the next steps in this pol-
icy.
3.9       (c)  Development and SuPPlV of Better Quality Books and Educational
Materials (Annex 9). This subcomponent would help put in place and develop
workable and affordable policies and mechanisms to ensure that schools have
available sufficient, good quality, locally appropriate books and materials
for active teaching-learning methods and for professional support to teachers.
The project would assist in activities to increase the supply of books and
materials, as follows: (i) Book and Materials Identification and Appraisal.
Guidelines would be developed to identify and appraise all available printed
educational materials and to recommend to teachers how to use specific worth-
while materials to support CBSA teaching-learning methods in varied contexts.
The guidelines would be disseminated to all provincial and district education-
al personnel, supervisors and school principals; (ii) Bulletin. The project
would support the publication and distribution of a bulletin to disseminate
advice to primary education personnel about the materials available from pub-
lic and private sources and to school librarians and teachers on materials
use. It would be developed, produced and distributed to all schools, libra-
ries, education offices and bookstores. One iscue would be published in the
first year of the project and three annually thereafter; (iii) Book Needs
Assessments and SunplR Mechanisms. Surveys would be undertaken by the provin-
cial project authorities on the existing provision of books and materials in
the six SPP/CBSA provinces. An optimum level of book and materials provision
for implementing SPP/CBSA and the local scope for buying and distributing
textbooks and materials would be established, taking into account the special
needs of isolated, disadvantaged schools (para. 3.11). The training of train-
ers on book needs assessments, books and materials' appraisal and book pur-
chase and distribution would be undertaken centrally. The training of super-
visors, principals of under-served schools and other local educational person-
nel would be undertaken at regional centers; and (iv) Supply of Materials and
Produc'4on Equipment for SPP/CBSA. In the six SPP/CBSA provinces, items from
a limited list of basic materials and production equipment would be provided
from the center to all project schools. This would be supplemented by train-
ing in the development and use of low cost SPP/CBSA equipment for educational
personnel (para. 3.10). To strengthen local capabilities to identify and
purchase materials and materials-production equipment appropriate to quality
improvement, the project would sup;.rt the introduction of a local supply



- 22 -
system in the six provinces for core and satellite schools. This equipment
would supplement basic equipment supplied from the center. The list of mate-
rials, books and equipment and plans on items to be provided from the center
or locally are being revised and would be completed in consultation with the
Bank.
3.10       To Upgrade Book Quality and Variety, the project would also support
(i) Trainina in Book Development. To develop primary education books, the
project would provide training for potential books and materials specialists
based on courses already prepared by the DPE with the Indonesian Center for
Graphic Arts, in conjunction with the National Book Development Advisory Coun-
cil and the Indonesian Publishers' Association. The topics would include
authorship, editing, illustrating, design, production, and aspects of publish-
ing. The training program would cater as a priority to the need for good
books of primary teachers in the six SPPICBSA provinces. It is proposed that
six courses would be held in Jakarta and one each in regional centers in the
east and west of the country, Medan and Ujung Padang, with involvement of
appropriate agencies such as the Book Center and publishers; and (ii) Training
in Materials Authorship and Development. Courses would be conducted for a
wider pool of teachers, principals, supervisors and key educational personnel
in the six SPP/CBSA provinces who would be trained in primary education low-
cost materials development. One outcome of the training would be, hopefully,
to identify writers and illustrators to develop publishable books for national
use. Implementation guidelines on linkages between materials development and
book development activities are being developed and would be completed in
consultation with the Bank.
3.11      Policy Coordination for Books Policy Development.  The project would
support liaison between MOEC institutions such as the Book Center, the Curri-
culum Development Center, the Graphic Arts Center and the Facilities and
Equipment Directorate, and consultation with other governmental and nongovern-
mental agencies such as the Libraries Directorate, the National Book Advisory
Board, the Indonesia Publishers Association and the book industry. The goal
of the network's activities would be to produce reports and recommendations to
strengthen book policy formulation and policy implementation, especially for
primary education. Examples of policy issues to be addressed include recom-
mending: (i) how the limited annual supply of free books would be distributed
to isolated, disadvantaged schools with severe shortages; (ii) how to improve
the quality and variety of books made available through INPRES; (iii) how to
improve the stock and operation of school libraries and develop revolving
school libraries; and (iv) a plan for long term, affordable and equitable book
supply for all primary students.
B. Provision of Special Assistance (an Eguitable Resource Base) for Under-
served Schools (estimated cost US$9.8 million)
3.12      This component would provide additional Special Assistance Funds
(SAFs) for quality improvement to the poorest ("under-served") schools and
would finance related training in resource management for the schools' princi-
pals and other educational personnel, related materials and equipment, techni-
cal assistance for studies and operational support for developing and imple-
menting the guidelines and determining the methods of selecting the schools,
delivering the SAPs and supervising and mnonitoring the component. The annual



- 23 -
SAP of Rp 1.5 million per school on average has been estimated as useful for
quality improvement purposes. Though small, this sum (about US$4.50 per stu-
dent) has been shown to contribute significantly to students' learning
achievement in comparable countries. Most better-off schools in the country
already receive at least this amount from parental contributions and the sum
is judged as a reasonable, affordable and sustainable supplement from public
funding to under-served schools in poor areas. For example, providing SAFs of
Rp 1.5 million per school to all schools in the poorest ten percent of vil-
lages would require additional financing amounting to only 0.68 percent of the
APBN. The initial purpose would be to pilot a targeting system to identify
and select the poorest villages and to provide compensatory funding to enable
all the schools in these villages to enjoy an adequate level of resources to
begin SPP/CBSA implementation in future. The longer term goal would be to
institutionalize a viable and sound system of targeted compensatory subsidy to
the poorest schools which cannot provide quality improvement inputs from
parental contributions.
3.13      The project would finance an assessment of the pilot scheme and, if
the pilot proved feasible and beneficial for quality improvement, it would
also finance the gradual, phased expansion and dissemination of the scheme in
up to twelve provinces. It is planned that the pilot phase would be completed
in West Sumatra and NTT by the end oa the second year of the project and, if
the assessment of the pilot scheme proved positive, the SAP would be expanded
from the third year to 'nclude the other four SPP/CBSA provinces, Aceh, Bali,
North Sulawesi and Yogjakarta. Subject to a positive mid-term review, in the
penultimate year, six of the poorest provinces (to be determined by their
poverty ranking at that time) would be got ready to receive SAPs in the final
year of the project. The principle has been established that the under-served
schools would be selected on criteria of poverty.12/ The Government has
planned to utilize existing MOHA village data base (BANGDES) survey informa-
tion on the average income and poverty status of villages. After analysis,
the resulting village identIfication would need to be validated using other
data bases and villages in the two provinces would then be classified into
poor and non-poor categories and the poorest would be ranked. The ranking
would be the basis for selecting the under-served schools eligible for SAFs.
Other criteria such as educational disadvantage would also be worked out and
such indicators as the completion, dropout and repetition rate and student
achievement test scores would be used to assess the impact of the under-served
school program cross-sectionally and longitudinally. Because this innovatory
component requires detailed groundwork to ensure its efficiency and effective-
ness, a study and related start-up activities would be undertaken in the first
year of the project in two pilot provinces (Annex 1, E.). The first part of
the study would provide the criteria of poverty and indicators of educational
disadvantage, the procedures for under-served school selection, the training
needs assessment for school principals and the training plan. The second part
of the study would provide guidelines on delivering SAPs to the schools' prir.-
cipals and the monitoring and supervision of the delivery and use of funds.
12/ The leve' of local and parental contributions received by schools would
not be an acceptable indicator of poverty in the community because it
would discourage local resource mobilization.



- 24 -
At negotiations, the Government agreed that it would, by June 30, 1993, under-
take and complete, in consultation with the Bank, a study on the establishment
of Special Assistance Funds for the purpose of supplying funds to principals
of under-served schools for quality improvement of under-served schools in
accordance with the terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para.
6.1)(c)). The Government further agreed that it woulds (a) by June 30, 1993,
identify and select under-served schools, from amongst its primary schools, in
accordance with criteria, procedures and data base(s) satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) establish the SAFs in accordance with the recommendations of the
study; and (c) adopt and put into effect policies and guidelines, satisfactory
to the Bank, to maintain and operate the SAFe (para. 6.1(c)). Trainers would
be trained and develop training materials.  They would then in turn train the
school principals to use the SAFs to buy educational inputs from a wide range
of allowable items on a recommended list. The list would be derived partly
from the one currently used for the SBPP Budget (Annex 10, Part B) and partly
from SPP/CBSA requirements. The list is currently being upgraded and guide-
lines for its use would be developed in consultation with the Bank. As condi-
tions of disbursement of the Special Assistance Funds the Government would
provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that: (a) the principals of the
under-served schools have been trained (para. 6.3(a)); and (b) establish and
put into effect policies and guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, to operate
and maintain the Special Assistance Funds in accordance with the recommenda-
tions of the study referred to in the Action Plan (Annex 1, E) (para. 6.3(b)).
3.14      There are several sources and viable mechanisms for the administra-
tion and delivery of the SAPs (Draft Working Paper B.2, Annex 19). One uses
an appropriate adaptation of the MOEC DIP, building on experience of the work-
ing of an existing small MOEC DIP for Development Schools (P4D) and the SBPP.
Another would adapt the INPRES-SD. The former places responsibility for the
SAF's delivery under the MOEC, the latter under the MOHA (BANGDA) and regional
administrations. A possible alternative woulca be for the best aspects of both
mechanisms to be combined, facilitating subsector co-administration. During
the first year of project impl3mentation the detailed guidelines to channel,
operate and maintain the SAFs will be established, possibly utilizing proce-
dures similar to those under the East Java and Bali Urban Development Project.
The Government has decided that these start-up activities will be carried out
with the full and active involvement of local leaders and regional administra-
tion officials.
3.15      To avoid administrative delay in the delivery of SAFs, it has been
established that the SAPs would be channeled through designated branches of
local banks or the MOF treasury (KPKN) directly to school principals (para.
4.11). Alternative means of delivering SAEs to remote under-served schools
would be the subject of separate study by project management. To enhance
administrative efficiency and effective use, the SAFs would be released to
principals after they had met several conditions. These would include: (i)
successful completion of a two-week start-up training program, and in subse-
quent years, one-week follow-up training, on effective management cif school
resources; (ii) submission to project management of a satisfactory school
expenditure plan for quality improvement, based on an integrated use of avail-
able funds from all sources; (iii) submission to project management of a
satisfactory written report on the use of the previous year's SAF; and (iv) a
written report for she parents' meeting (BP3) on the current and the following



- 25 -
years' expenditure plans. The first batch of principals would be trained at
the beginning of the second year of the project, prior to the SAFs being made
available. Start-up and fol'ow-up training of successive batches of princi-
pals would continue througho   the project, subject to the pilot scheme being
successful and expansaon of the scheme agreed. At negotiations, the Govern-
ment agreed that it would train principals of under-served schools in accord-
ance with a training plan satisfactory to the Bank and would, by April 1 of
each year, commencing in 1993, furnish to the Bank an annual training plan for
principals of these schools satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.1(d)). Account-
ing and reporting procedures to foster accountability and timely feedback to
principals would be put in place on the use of the SAFs for quality improve-
ment according to the schools' needs stated in the approved school plan. If
necessary, designated officials at the sub-district level would assist princi-
pals to purchase educational supplies. To further enhance effectiveness and
efficiency the project would also support the publication and distribution of
a newsletter for under-served schools, the development and dissemination of
monitoring auidelirnes, a randomized annual Rerformance review in a sample of
the targeted schools and additional travel allowances for school supervisors.
C. Enhancement of CaR&citX to Manaae Quality Improvement (estimated cost
US$4.0 million)
3.16      This component would assist the Government through technical assis-
tance, training, equipment, vehicles and operational support in:
(a) strengthening administrative support to schools by MOEC and DINAS P&K
staff; (b) improving financial planning and budgetary processing; and
(c) developing institutional capacities of the centrally-located MOEC agencies
to formulate policy, monitor and guide quality standards and inform the public
about quality improvement.
3.17      (a)  Strengthening Administrative Support to Schools.  The project
would assist in the development of guidelines defining functional and admin-
istrative responsibility for operational support and in uts to qualitv
imrrovement in primary education between DINAS P&K and MOEC at Rrovincial and
district levels. This would be a step towards the goal of strengthening local
capacity to plan, manage and implement primary education quality improvement
programs. The activity would serve as a complement to, or supplement of, the
ongoing work of an MOHA task force which is currently preparing a report on
the prevailing laws and regulations affecting sectoral operations in the prov-
inces (para. 1.21). With regard to primary education, the task force consults
with MOEC. The project would finance the following activities in NTT and West
Sumatra (Annex 1.C.): (i) development of a preliminary task analysis and
specification of functional responsibilities in quality improvement of the
MOEC offices at provincial (KANWIL), district (KANDEP) and sub-district
(KANCAM) levels and similarly for the operational responsibilities of DINAS
P&K staff; (ii) preparation of dotailed job descriptions for MOEC and DINAS
P&K staff and recommendations on steps toward better coordinated administra-
tive support to primary schools; and (iii) based or. the above, a survey of
staff qualifications, work experience and training needs and introduction of
key staff training.
3.18      (b)  Lnaroving Financial Planning and Budzetarv Processina.  The
project would help establish a procedure and information base to: (i) ensure



- 26 -
consistency between the allocation of funds and stated objectives regarding
quality improvement; and (ii) clarify sources of financing for proposed expen-
ditures and identify under-funded or over-funded activities. This exercise
would be undertaken by key officials of the national Government agencies
involved and of the MOEC, DINAS P&K and BAPPEDA, in NTT and West Sumatra
(Annex 1.D.). In this regard, the project would support the preparation of
tables which would consolidate annually all primary education budaetary and
*x3enditure data by source and use. This would be a first step towards solv-
ing the problems caused by budgetary fragmentation. The second step which the
project would support would be the introduction of regular, joint, integrated
reviews of all primary education budgets and expenditures at critical points
in the annual budgetary cycle to provide a forum for discussion of the ade-
quacy of the total budget and to identify potential trade-offs in resource
allocation. To make the exercise sustainable, training would be provided and
up-to-date, realistic national standards for estimating the cost of achieving
school quality improvements would be developed. The project would support the
necessary research at national level and field work in NTT and West Sumatra
(Annex I.A.). This would involve surveys to determine the number of schools
below minimum quality standards in the two provinces. The outcome would be
recomendations on resource requirements for achieving various levels of
school quality (para. 3.7 and para. 3.19) and a refinement of the targeting
concept (para. 3.13).
3.19      (c)  Developing Institutional Capacities.  The project would assist
in enhancing MOEC institutional capabilities through technical assistance,
training, equipment and operational support to develop and implement monitor-
ina and evaluation studies which would provide analyses and final reports to
project management for retrospective review and policy formulation (Annex 11).
Evaluation case studies on the two major project innovations would be sup-
ported in order to measure: (i) the impact of SPP/CBSA on school quality
improvement; and (ii) the effect of Special Assistance Funds to under-served
schools on the management and funding of school quality improvement programs.
For policy formulation and to contribute to upgrading the primary education
data base, the project would also support the collection and analysis of data
for: (iii) a baseline study to measure changes in primary education quality
over time, including the piloting, testing and introduction of SPP/CBSA and
SAF-related teacher and principal proficiency indicators and student outcome
indicators (survival rate and, if possible, CBSA-related achievement scoi-es);
and (iv) in collaboration with provincial project entities, the design and
implementation of provincial quality improvement needs assessment surveys
which would assist in determining the requirements of primary schools for
teachers, teaching aids, materials and other quality inputs, beginning with
West Sumatra and NTT (Annex 1. A.). These studies are challenging and need to
be especially well designed and managed because of their potential impact on
public support for the Government's efforts in primary education. In addi-
tion, it is important that relevant baseline data is collected as early as
possible. Project management at the center would have overall responsibility
for producing the studies whilst the MOEC Office of Research and Development
would provide major technical inputs and data base coordination. The detailed
management arrangements for each study would need to be developed in coopera-
tion with other central and provincial agencies involved in policy formula-
tion, such as the MOEC Planning Office of the Secretariat General, the DINAS
P&K and the BAPPEDAs.



- 27 -
3.20      The project would assist the MOEC Directorate of Primary Education
to develop its capacity in setting national quality standards for primary
education and providing information to educational personnel on the project's
quality improvement objectives by financing the development, production and
distribution of Implomentation Manuals, which would be derived in part from
the Government's project proposal documents and plans, the Bank Staff
Appraisal Report, working papers and background papers. It would also support
the development of Guidelines for Future Primary Education Project Preparation
based on project staff experience and on monitoring and evaluation data.
These manuals and guidelines would reach a wide range of staff at central,
regional and local levels. The project would also assist the DPE in the
design, planning and introduction of Information. Education and Communications
(IEC) activities. These would be directed towards fostering appreciation of
qualitative standards in primary education, encouraging parental and community
participation and eliciting public support for the project. Plans and imple-
mentation guidelines for IEC activities would be prepared in consultation with
the Bank.
D. Project Management and Implementation (Annex 16)
3.21      The MOEC would be the main project implementing agency because of
its responsibility for quality improvement but proiect management arrangements
would complement and reinforce the management co-'ponent in promoting inter-
agency co-administration and budgetary coordination, and institutional devel-
opment and capacity-building for more locally-based planning, management and
resource allocation for primary education. The project would finance techni-
cal assistance, staff training, equipment, vehicles and operational support
for the management, monitoring and evaluation of project implementation,
including central and provincial project management.
3.22      An Inter-agency Steering Committee (ISC) has been established at the
center to facilitate inter-agency consultation and coordination on major proj-
ect policy and implementation issues (Chart 3A). It includes senior officials
from the MOEC, MOHA, BAPPENAS, MOF, MENPAN and the State Civil Service Commis-
sion (BARN) and the Governors of the six SPP/CBSA provinces ard is chaired by
the MOEC Director General, DGPSE. A Technical Advisory Board (TAB) would
provide regular inter-agency technical guidance to the Project Director on
project implementation and would raise issues needing attention and make rec-
ommendations. It would be chaired by the MOEC Director of Primary Education
and include inter-agency technical members.
3.23      The MOEC would be responsible for the execution of the project
through a Central Proiect Management Unit (CPMU) within the DPE, headed by a
full-time Project Director. The CPMU would include a secretariat, a treasury
and specialist assistant units, responsible for managing activities carried
out centrally and for guiding and monitoring provincially-implemented activi-
ties. See para. 3.29 for conditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement on
project management.
3.24      In the six SPP/CBSA provinces, the project management structure at
provincial and district levels would mirror that at central level (Chart 3B).
The Inter-agency Provincial Coordinating Committee (IPCC) would be established
by the Governor and the Inter-agency District Coordinating Committee (IDCC) by



- 28 -
the District Head (Bupati). They would include key agencies such as the MOEC,
DINAS P&K and the BAPPEDA. Similarly, there would be provincial (PPMU) (para.
3.29) and district (DPMU) level project management units. The Head of the
PPMU (PIMPRO) would normally be expected to be appointed by the Head of the
MOEC provincial office and would report to him on a day-to-day basis. He
would also provide regular reports directly to the Head of the DINAS P&K and
the IPCC. In provinces where it was agreed between the Government and the
MOEC, the appointment may also be made by the Head of the DINAS P&K. Similar
arrangements would be made at District Level. If experience warranted it,
PIMPROs would be appointed to head DPMUs. At the sub-district level, a Sub-
district Project Management Unit (SPMU) would be established to carry out the
instructions of the DPMU.
3.25      For management of the Special Assistance Funds and principals'
training program in the final two years of the project, in all provinces other
than the SPP/CBSA ones, there would not be a fully-fledged provincial and
district level project management structure because the funds would normally
flow direct to school principals via local banks or treasuries. In these
provinces a small Provincial Under-served Schools Unit (PUSU) would be set up
to coordinate, manage and monitor the activities. It would be headed by a
project officer who would be trained to provide technical support to school
principals in the delivery and use of SAFs and who would have authority to
instruct sub-district officials to facilitate implementation of project activ-
ities.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
3.26      Regular semi-annual monitoring of project pr-ogress would be the
responsibility of the CPMU and the PPMUs. The findings would be documented in
progress reports and made available to the ISC, TAB and the Bank. The Govern-
ment would conduct a mid-term implementation review and mount a summative
evaluation. Detailed terms of reference for these activities would be avail-
able to the Bank for review and comment. The MOEC's Office of Research and
Development would provide technical expertise to the CPMU in designing the
monitoring and evaluation procedures, format and quantitative and qualitative
criteria and in ensuring consistency with ongoing MOEC MIS upgrading. For
regular monitoring purposes, the CPMU would be responsible for issuing general
guidelines to the six SPP/CBSA provinces on progress indicators for the
SPP/CBSA and on related formative activities, the books and materials subcom-
ponent and progress on the utilization of SAPs. The six PPMUs would then each
develop and implement monitoring plane appropriate to their programs, in
accordance with the guidelines. The CPMU would similarly provide guidelines
to the PUSUs for monitoring the SAPs to under-served schools. The CPMU would
also be responsible for providing monitoring reports on activities implemented
directly from the center. Lastly, the CPMU would be responsible for ensuring
that the Action Plan for Primary Education Policy and Program Development
(Annex 1) is implemented in a timely manner. The detailed monitoring plan is
given in Annex 17. At negotiations, the Government agreed that it would by
October 1 of each year commencing in 1992, prepare and furnish to the Bank,
for its review and comments, an annual project implementation plan in accord-
ance with a project monitoring plan, satisfactory to the Bank, and a proposed
budget, and, thereafter, carry out the project in accordance with such plan
and budget, taking into account the comments of the Bank. It also agreed that



- 29 -
it would maintain the CPMU and PPMUs with funds and staff in accordance with a
plan satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.1(e)).
Consultants' Services. Studies. Fellowships and Trainine
3.27      Consultants' services would be used for policy and institutional
development studies (Annex 11) and for project implementation support
(Annex 12). A Chief Project Administration Coordinator would assist the Proj-
ect Director in overall project administration, oversight of technical assis-
tance, fellowphips, staff training, coordination of the Action Plan, component
activities and project monitoring and evaluation. Coordination specialists
would support implementation of the SPP/CBSA and the Special Assistance compo-
nents. Technical specialists would work long term on the SPP/CBSA subcompo-
nent (two would possibly be located in NTT and West Sumatra, visiting the
other four SPP/CBSA provinces on a regular basis) and on the Special Assis-
tance for Under-served Schools. Short-term technical specialists would assist
teacher training, educational management training and SAF training and imple-
mentation. Coordination specialists would assist in managing the studies.
Technical specialists would be required to assist in designing, implementing
and analyzing studies on teaching-learning processes, book and materials
development, educational costs and finance, educational administration, per-
sonnel development and institutional development.  To help sustain project
activities in the long term the project would support 1,083 persons in local,
and 236 persons in overseas fellowships, training and comparative study train-
ing visits.
Supervision
3.28      Supervision would be intensive in this first primary education proj-
ect and would require about 20 staff-weeks, higher than average staff
resources for Bank-assisted education projects. This is because of the lack
of experience of the Bank and the Government as partners in mounting large
scale projects in primary education in the country, because of the complexity
of the policy and technical issues addressed and because of the wide geograph-
ical scipe of some technical components which involve project management units
in the provinces. Supervision strategy would aim at providing optimal trans-
fer of know-how to the CPMU in establishing regular communication and appro-
priate procedures according to Bank supervision guidelines, and in identifying
potential issues and bottlenecks and taking initiatives to overcome them.
Each component would also require regular supervision of a technical nature
with frequent visits to provincial project sites (intensive supervision in NTT
and West Sumatra and regular but less frequent visits to other project sites).
The 20 staff-weeks comprise two weeks each for supervision of project and loan
administration and for ninu technical elements. It is planned that a supervi-
sion progra  up to the mid-term review would be worked out during a start-up
mission when Government and Bank responsibilities would be specified. At
negotiations, the Government agreed that it would carry out in consultation
with the Bank: (i) by October 1 of each year commencing in 1993, an annual
progress review, and (ii) by March 31, a mid-term progress review, of the
implementation of the Project (para. 6.1 (f)).



- 30 -
Status of Preparation
3.29      A Project Director and other key CPMU staff were appointed specific-
ally to facilitate project preparation. Central level activities to get the
project ready for implementation are now advanced and will be finalized with
TA provided by the Japanese Grant Facility for project preparation. The main
outstanding efforts required are at provincial level, in coordination with the
CPMU. To ensure timely implementation at loan effectiveness, a Project Direc-
tor, other key staff of the CPMU, Provincial Project Managers and other key
staff of the PPMUs need to be appointed specifically to implement the project.
Therefore, the following would be conditions of effectiveness of the loan
agreement (para. 6.3 (a-d)): (a) a CPMP, for the purpose of assisting the
MOEC to carry out the project, with an organizational and management struc-
ture, satisfactory to the Bank, would have been established; (b) a Project
Director would have been appointed as head of the CPMU, with qualifications,
experience, functions and powers, satisfactory to the Bank; (c) a PPMU, for
the purpose of assisting the MOEC to carry out the project in each of the six
SPP/CBSA provinces, with an organizational and management structure, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, would have been established; and (d) a Project Manager would
have been appointed as head of each PPMU, with qualifications, experience,
functions and powers, satisfactory to the Bank.
ImRIemeDtation Schedule
3.30      The proposed project would be implemented over five years.  This
time period takes into account recent country disbursement experience and the
lack of project experience of both the Bank and the Government in this
subsector. The closing date would be March 31, 1998. The mid-term progress
review would be scheduled for the last semester of 1994/95. The implementa-
tion schedule (Annex 15) and cost schedules (Annex 13) would serve as a basis
for project planning and budgeting and would be updated annually by project
management within the scope of the project objectives. At negotiations, the
Government agreed that it would prepare and submit to the Bank Project reviews
and progress reports taking into account performance targets established by
the Government for each part of the Project, such performance targets to be
updated annually in consultation with the Bank (para. 6.1(g)).
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Costs
4.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$53.9 million
equivalent. The estimated cost by project component is summarized in Table
4.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 4.2 (Detailed project costs are
given in Annex 13).



- 31 -
Table 4S1: SUMHARY OF PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT
RD billion          USS milllin     Foreign as
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total 2 of total.
Improving teaching-learning processes
Teacher professional development
program                         20.7    14.4   35.1 10.6    7.4   18.0      41
Teacher promotion oppertunities    0.7    0.6    1.3  0.3    0.3    0.6       46
Development and supply of books and
oducational materials            3.4   10.1   13.5  1.8    5.1    6.9       75
Subtotal                      24.8   25.1  49.9 12.7   12.8   25.5        50
Special assistance for under-served
schools                           16.4    2.6   19.0  8.4    1.4   9.8        14
Enhance management of quality
improvement:
Provincial administrative support  0.5    0.8    1,3  0.2    0.4    0.6       62
Improved financial planning        0.6    0.6    1.2  0.3    0.3    0.6       53
Development of institutional
capacity                         2.4    3.0    5.4  1.3    1.5    2.8       55
Swbtotal                       3.5    4.4    7.9  1.8   2.2    4.0        56
Project management and administratice    5.3    9.1   14.4  2.7    4.7   7.4   63
Baseline cost                 50.0   41.2   91.2 25.6   21.1   46.7       45
Contingencies:
Physical                           2.6    2.7    5.3  1.3    1.4    2.7       51
Price increase                     5.0    3.8    8.8  2.6   1.9    4.5        43
Subtotel                       7.6    6.5   14.1  3.9   3.3    7.2        46
Total project cost La         57.6   A7.7  105.3 29.5   24.4   53.9       45
la Includes local taxea estimated at US$1.1 million equivalent.
4.2       Baseline costs are estimated at July 1991 prices.  Equipment and
vehicle costs are baeed on agreed lists priced for similar imported or locally
available items. Books and educational materials costs are based on similar
items recently procur d in other education projects in Indonesia. Technical
assistance costs for oreign specialists include salaries, allowances and
travel. Costs for loXal consultants are estimated at Rp 5,200,000 per month.
These include management costs. Three-month comparative study training visits
and short courses abroad are estimated to cost US$14,500 each. Short-term
local training costs and the costs of workshops, seminars and meetings vary
widely depending on the type of activity and its location. The costs of local
transportation and honoraria are based on standard allowances.
4.3        Project costs include a contingencv allowance of US$7.2 million for
unforeseen physical conditions and for estimated price increases. Physical
contingencies of 10% have been allowed for equipment and educational materials
and 5X for all other categories. Price contingencies throughout the project
implementation period were estimated on the basis of the implementation sched-
ule (Annex 15) and expected annual price increases of 6% for local costs and
3.9% for fore.'gn costs, excluding the SAFs to under-served schools. Accord-
ingly, total contingencies represent about 15% of baseline costs and aggre-



- 32 -
gat-d price increases represent about 9Z of baseline costs plus physical con-
tingencies.
4.4        The foreian exchange component of US$24.4 million (about 45Z of
total estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the follow-
ing estimated foreign exchange percentages: equipment and educational materi-
ala--85Z; foreign consultants and overseas training--SZ; local consultants,
local training, workshops, seminars and meetings, SAPs to under-served
schools, local transportation, and IEC activities--1OX; and
honoraria--OZ.
Table 4.2: SU1HARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
RD billion           USS million      Foreign as
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total S of total
Equipment and educational materials:
Educational materials                1.6     8.8   10.4  0.8    4.5    5.3        85
Office equipment and computers       0.9     4.9    5.8  0.5    2.5    3.0        85
Vehicles                             0.2     1.5    1.7  0.1    0.8    0.9        85
subtotal                         2j7    15.2   17.9  1.4    7.8    9.2         85
Studies                                2.5     5.8    8.3  1.3    2.9    4.2        70
Consultants' services                  1.8     4.2    6.0  0.9    2.2    3.1        70
Subtotal                          4.3    10 0   14 3  2 2    5.1    1.3         70
Fellowships and trainings
Overseas fellowships                 2.0    11.5   13.5  1.0    5.9    6.9        85
Local fellowships                    1.0     0.1    1.1  0.5    0.0    0.5        10
Local training of key staff          8.4     0.9    9.3  4.3    0.5    4.8        10
Teacher workshops                   11.9     1.3   13.2  6.1    0.7    6.8        10
Subtotal                         23 3    13 8   37 1 11 9    7 1   19 0         37
SAFs to under-served schools          12.8     1.4   14.2  6.6    0.7    7.3        10
Operating costs (project mAnagement
and administration)                  6.9     0.8    7.7  3.5    0.4    3.9        10
Baseline cost                    50.0    41.2   91.2 25.6   21.1   46.7        45
Contingencies:
Physical                             2.6     2.7    5.3  1.3    1.4    2.7        51
Price increase                       5.0     3.8    8.8  2.6    1.9    4.5        43
Subtotal                          7.6     6.5   14.1  3.9    3.3    7.2        46
Total project cost               576    47.7  105 3 29.5   24.4   53.9         45
4.5        Identifiable taxes and duties are estimated at Rp 2,131 billion
(US$1.1 million equivalent) based on the current 0I value-added tax on all
contracts for equipment and educational materials. Imported equipment and
instructional materials would be exempt from import duties.



- 33 -
B. Financina
4.6       The loan of US$37.0 million would finance 70S of total estimated
project costs (excluding about US$1.1 million equivalent of value-added tax)
including 1001 of the foreign exchange costs of the project (US$24.4 million)
and 431 of the local costs of the project (US$29.5 million) (Table 4.3).
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Government     IBRD     Total      IBRD share
(2)
Equipment and educa ional
materials                            2.3          7.8      10.1           77
Studies                                0.0          4.7       4.7          100
Consultants' services                  0.0          3.4       3.4          100
Fellowships and training               6.8         14.3      21.1          68
SAFs to under-served schools           3.6         3.7        7.3          50
Operating costs (project man-
agement and administration)          3.2          1.3       4.5          30
Unallocated                            1.0          1.8       2.8           64
Total                              16.9        37.0       53.9          69
4.7       Sustainabilitv.  The annual post-project cost of sustaining the key
quality improvement activities introduced under the project is estimated at
US$11.1 million, consisting of the cost of: (a) maintaining the SPP/CBSA
program in six provinces (US$2.6 million); (b) replenishing stocks of books
and materials in the six SPP/CBSA provinces (US$0.2 million); and (c) provid-
ing SAPs to under-served schools and related principals' training (US$8.3
million) (Annex 10, Table A). Provision of ongoing budgetary support to sus-
tain these programs in the provinces within the project scope at current lev-
els is not likely to be a problem for the Government as it constitutes less
than 11 of the APBN budget. Assuming a GNP and primary education budget
growth rate of 6-72, the real cost of sustaining these programs would decline
relative to the primary education budget. The current project would serve to
fill the gap in public funding of quality improvement activities. It is
anticipated that, if the programs prove successful, future projects in the
series would continue and even expand their coverage, but that, as they stabi-
lize and become routinized, the cost of sustaining them would increasingly be
borne out of local resources.



- 34 -
C. Procurement
4.8       Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 4.4 belows
Table 4.4: PROCURWENT METHOD
(US$ million)
Total cost
Procurement method          including
Category of expenditure       ICB      LCB    Other La     N/A    contingencies
Equipment and educational     3.6      4.6       2.7       -           10.9
materials                   (3.6)   (3.1)     (1.8)                  (8.5)
Studies                       -        -         4.9       _            4.9
(4.9)                 (4.9)
Consultants' services         -        -         3.6       -            3.6
(3.6)                 (3.6)
Fellowships and training      -        -         8.7      13.4        22.1
(8.0)     (6.7)      (14.7)
SAFs to under-served          -        -         -         7.7         7.7
schools                                                 (3.9)        (3.9)
Operating costs (project      -        -         -         4.7          4.7
management and admin-                                   (1.4)        (1.4)
istration)
Total                   3.6     4.6       19.9      25.8        53.9
(3.6)   (3.1)    (18.3)    (12.0)       (37.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate amounts to be financed by the Loan.
la Includes international shopping, direct contracting, selection of consul-
tants following Bank Guidelines and selection of fellows using existing
Government administrative procedures.
Equipment would be grouped to the extent practicable to form bid packages
costing US$200,000 or more. These packages would be procured using interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Items which cannot be so
grouped, and printing and delivery services within Indonesia, would be pro-
cured on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB), under Government pro-
curement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Miscellaneous equipment items,
deliveries and printing in packages not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent and
subject to an aggregate total of US$1.0 million equivalent, would be procured
on the basis of prudent shopping including a comparison of at least three
price quotations from suppliers eligible under the guidelines, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Books, computer software and other



- 35 -
educational materials (estimated value US$2.2 million) would be procured
through direct contracting, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Specialists would be selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants. It is expected that most TA and fellowships would be
contracted in two or three main packages aligneu w'th the three main areas of
project activities, and that project management would be assisted in coordi-
nating the TA and fellowship packages by specialists in project administra-
tion. As procurement of vehicles would be undertaken by several provinces and
by the CPMU, the individual packages would cost less than US$200,000. In view
of the dispersed location of the procurement and the small size of individual
contracts, vehicles, which are expected to cost a total of about US$0.9 mil-
lion, would be procured using LCB procedures. LCB procedures are acceptable
to the Bank provided that suppliers of foreign vehicles are allowed to bid on
the contracts and are given the necessary import licenses in a timely manner
if their bids are successful. The Government will notify potential suppliers
of foreign vehicles of this measure in the General Procurement Notice, the
specific advertisements for each bid action and each set of bidding documents,
and will issue import licenses for foreign vehicles tc successful bidders in a
timely manner to comply with the delivery requirements set forth in the bid-
ding documents.
4.9       Procurement Review.  The following are the guidelines regarding
procurement review:
(a) all ICB bid documents and contracts awarded on the basis of ICB
would be subject to prior review by the Bank; all other contracts
would be subject to random post-review;
(b) all contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$200,000 or more, velxicles, consultants' services, studies and
overseas fellowships, training and comparative study training
visits would be subject to prior review by the Bank; and
(c) all long-term domestic fellowships would be subject to post-review
by the Bank.
Prior review would thus cover about 75f of the contracts to be funded from the
loan.
D. Disbursements
4.10      The proposed loan of US$37.0 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of six year; (Annex 14). The disbu-sement schedule is based on
the implementation schedule (Annex 15). Disbursements would be made as fol-
lows: (a) equipment (including vehicles) and educational materials (including
printing and delivery)--100% of the foreign costs of directly imported equip-
ment and educational materials and of the ex-factory costs of locally manufac-
tured items and 65% of the costs of other locally procured items; (b) 100% of
the total cost of overseas and local specialists and overseas fellowships,
short courses and comparative study trairing visits; (c) 50% of the total cost
of the SAFs; (d) 50% of the total cost of local fellowships, local training of
key staff and teacher workshops; and (e) 302 of the total cost of seminars and



- 36 -
meetings, honoraria, IEC and local transportation.  Conditions of Disbursement
from the Loan for the SAFs are stated in para. 3.13.
4.11      Disbursements from the loan for all contracts for equipment awarded
under ICB procedures, for vehicles, for consultants' services and for studies
would be made against full documentation. The Government would advance the
SAFs to targeted schools to spend in accordance with the agreed guidelines and
condition. A designated sub-district official woti-d collect receipts and
statements of expenditure (SOEs) and forward them to the provincial level
project unit. The Government would be reimbursed for the SAF expenditures on
the basis of the documentation being satisfactorily reviewed by the project
management (PPMUs or PUSUs, then CPMU).  All other disbursements for contracts
estimated to cost up to US$200,000 would be made against SOEs for which rele-
vant documents would be retained and made available for review as requested by
visiting Bank missions or staff of the Bank Resident Mission in Indonesia. To
facilitate disbursementa, a Special Account would be established at the Bank
Indonesia and maintained by the MOEC under the direction of the Director Gen-
eral of the Budget, Ministry of Finance. The Special Account would be used to
make payments in all categories except for the SAFs, for all local and foreign
expenditures. Advance payments to the CPMU, PPMUs and SPMUs would not be pre-
financed from the Special Account. The initial authorized deposit of US$1.5
million is based on the need for funds to cover these expenditures on average
for four months. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would
be submitted to the Bank monthly or when the balance is 50Z of the initial
deposit, or more frequently if necessary, in amounts of not less than
US$200,000 per application.
Accounts. Audits and Regorting
4.12      The CPMU, PPMUs, PUSUs (where appropriate) and DPMUs would estab-
lish project accounts for all project expenditures, to be maintained in
accordance with sound accounting practices. Accounts for the SOEs and the
Special Account would be maintained separately. Each PPMU or PUSU would send
financial statements for all project expenditures for each fiscal year to the
CPMU.  The CPMU would consolidate all provincial financial statements with the
national level financial statement and prepare a consolidated financial
report. The financial statements and consolidated report would be audited by
independent auditors accepW.able to the Bank. Certified copies of the single
consolidated financial report on the project for each Government fiscal year,
together with the auditors' statement, would be furnished to the Bank as soon
as available, but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year. The PMUs would also monitor progress in project implementation and
report to the Bank each semester on this progress. Within six months after
the completion of disbursements, the CPMU would submit a project completion
report to the Bank.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1       The immediate beneficiaries would be some 5,000 teachers and princi-
pals, both men and women, who would gain as participants in innovative profes-
sional support programs designed to enhance their teaching skills and promo-
tion prospects, another 3,700 school principals who would participate in spe-



- 37 -
cialized training to better manage educational programs witn special assis-
ta,ice funds, the approximately 22,000 teachers and their students in poor
villages who would benefit from an enriched educational environment and MOEC
and DIRAS P&K supervisors and managers in up to twelve provinces who would
benefit from training and a strengthened administrative and budgetary environ-
ment in enhancing service delivery. The ultimate beneficiaries would be 5.2
million primary students whose learning achievement potential would be
enhanced.
5.2       The main risk would be that the challenging administrative and bud-
getary policy reforms could be delayed, thus reducing the project's effective-
noss and sustainability. This risk would be mitigated by the adoption of a
covenanted Action Plan for Primary Education Policy and Program Development
and by a mid-term progress review. Previous experience in the sector indi-
cates that training programs and service delivery planned at central level may
not be implemented effectively at school level. This risk is minimized by
providing project-specific training, by involving educational personnel at
provincial level in project planning and resource management, by training
district level personnel and school principals to manage funds and implement
quality measures and by supporting MOEC institutional development. A further
risk is that positive effects may not be demonstrable in the short term, thus
weakening the reform impetus. This would be addressed by monitoring progress
and measuring outcomes and by fostering public support through dissemination
of information about the project's goals.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       At negotiations, the Government agreed that it would:
(a) carry out the project in accordance with an Action Plan for Primary
Education Policy and Piogram Development, satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.4 and Annex 1);
(b) by October 1, 1992, appoint SPP/CBSA tutors in SPP/CBSA provinces in
accordance with conditions of service satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.6);
(c) (i) by June 30, 1993, identify and select under-served schools from
among its primary schools in accordance with criteria, procedures
and data base(s) satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) establish the SAFs
in accordance with the recommendations of the study referred to in
the Action Plan; and (iii) adopt and put into effect policies and
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, to maintain and operate the
SAFs (para. 3.13 and Annex I.E.);
(d) train principals of under-served schools in accordance with a train-
ing plan and, by April 1 of each year, commencing in 1993, furnish
to the Bank an annual training plan for principals of these schools,
both satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.15);
(e) by October 1 of each year, commencing in 1992, prepare and furnish
to the Bank, for its review and comments, an annual project imple-



- 38 -
mentation plan in accordance with a project monitoring plan, satis-
factory to the Bank, and a proposed budget, and, thereafter, carry
out the project in accordance with such plan and budget, taking into
account the comments of the Bank. It also agreed that it would
maintain the CPMU and PPMUs with funds and staff in accordance with
a plan satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.26);
(f) carry out in consultation with the Bank: (i) by October 1 of each
year, commencing in 1993, an annual progress review; and (ii) by
March 31, 1995, a mid-term progress review, of the implementation of
the project (para. 3.28); and
(g)  prepare and submit to the Bank progress reports taking into account
performance targets established by the Government for each part of
the project, such performance targets to be updated annually in
consultation with the Bank (para. 3.30).
6.2       The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement (para. 3.29):
(a) a Central Project Management Unit, for the purpose of assisting the
MOEC to carry out the project, with an organizational and management
structure, satisfactory to the Bank, would have been established;
(b) a Project Director would have been appointed as head of the CPMU,
with qualifications, experience, functions and powers, satisfactory
to the Bank;
(c) a Provincial Project Management Unit, for the purpose of assisting
the MOEC to carry out the project in each of the SPP/CBSA provinces,
with an organizational and management structure, satisfactory to the
Bank, would have been established; and
(d)  a Project Manager would have been appointed as head of each PPMU,
with qualifications, experience, functions and powers, satisfactory
to the Bank.
6.3       The following would be conditions of disbursement from the loan of
the Special Assistance Funds. The Government would:
(a) provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the principals of the
under-served schools have been trained (para. 3.13); and
(b) establish and put into effect policies and guidelines, satisfactory
to the Bank, to operate and maintain the Special Assistance Funds in
accordance with the recommendations of the study referred to in the
Action Plan (Annex 1. E.) (para. 3.13).
Recommendation
6.4       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for a loan of US$37.0 million equivalent to the Republic of
Indonesia for 20 years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's
standard variable rate.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
PRIMAY EDUCATION OUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Action Plan for Priparv Education Policy
and Program Development in Ouality Improvement
An Action Plan is given below, which is designed to promote the
development of the primary education subsector during the Fifth and Sixth
Five-Year Plans and beyond.
A. Oualitv Improvement Needs Assessment Surveys (Para. 3.18-3.19 and 3.9)
1.   January 1993   Survey designs and implementation plans completed,
reviewed by Government and made available to the Bank for
comment.
2.   January 1994   West Sumatra survey completed and conclusions of
Government review and recommended actions made available
to the Bank.
3.   June 1994       NTT survey completed and conclusions of Government review
and recommended actions made available to the Bank.
4.   October 1994   Design of Action Plan for West Sumatra and NTT completed
and conclusions of Government review made available to the
Bank.
5.   March 1995      Design and implementation plans for further provincial
surveys reviewed by Government and made available to the
Bank for comment.
B. Teachers' Promotion ORRortunities (Para. 3.8)
1.   February 1993  Government review of the design, terms of reference and
implementation plan for the feasibility study in West
Sumatra and NTT completed and conclusions made available
to the Bank for comment.
2.   April 1994      Study on West Sumatra completed, reviewed by Government
and conclusions and recommendations made available to the
Bank and a draft action plan worked out to introduce a
management scheme for the proposed functional system and
made available to the Bank.
3.   July 1994       Second study on NTT completed, reviewed by Government and
conclusions and recommendations made available to the
Bank.



-40-
ANEX 1
Page 2 of 2
4.   January 1995   Follow-up Action Plan designed, reviewed by Government and
conclusions and recommendations made available to the
Bank.
C. Provincial Administrative SupRort to Primary Education (Para. 3.17)
1.   January 1993   Design and implementation plans completed, reviewed by
Government and made available to the Bank for comment.
2.   January 1994   Task analyses and specification of functional and
operational responsibilities completed in West Sumatra.
3.  June 1994       Task analyses an, specification of functional and
administrative responsibilities completed in NTT.
4.   December 1994  Reports completed, reviewed by Government and conclusions
and recommendations made available to the Bank.
D.  Integrated And Consolidated Budgets (Para. 3.18)
1.  June 1993       Implementation plan designed for integrating and
consolidating primary education budget planning for GFY
1993/94 in West Sumatra and NTT and at national level,
reviewed by Government and made available to the Bank.
2.   June 1994      Report on Government review of progress on budgetary
integration and consolidation made available to Bank.
3.   December 1994  Implementation Plan designed for GFY 1994/95, reviewed by
Government and made available to the Bank.
4.   Decembe'r 1994  Government discussions with Bank on a draft five-year
expenditure plan and program for primary education quality
improvement to cover the Sixth Five-year Plan period
1995/96-1999/2000.
5.   June 1995      Discussions with Bank on further cooperation on the basis
of the five-year subsector expenditure plan and program.
E. ProvLsion of S2ecial Assistance Funds to Under-served Schools
1.   June 1993      Study on criteria, indicators of educational disadvantage,
identification and selection of under-served schools and
training needs assessments and plan for training the
schools' principals in resource management, to be
completed, reviewed by the Government and made available
to the Bank for comment.
2.   June 1993      Study to work out guidelines on channeling Special
Assistance Funds to principals of under-served schools;
monitoring and supervision of the delivery and use of
funds; completed and reviewed by the Government and made
available to the Bank for comment.



-41-
Page 1 of 4
,INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION OUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
General Guidelines for ARpraisal of Provincial Plans and Programs
The General Guidelines form the basis for appraisal of proposed
provincial Integrated Primary Education Expenditure Plans. The Specific
Guidelines are for appraisal of specific aspects of the plans and for other
proposed Quality Improvement Programs not included in the plans.
The General Guidelines consist of five elements:
1.   Appropriateness to the Project Objective
2.   Technical Design
3.   Implementation Capacity
4.   Cost Efficiency
5.   Adequacy of Budget and Financing
1.   Aooropriateness to the Project Objective: Improvement of Primary
Education Ouality
(a) Does the proposed plan addrnss the overall objective of improving
primary education quality and ultimately raising student
achievement and completion rates?
(b) Is the plan consistent with national policy for quality
improvement?
(c) Does the plan include three components, (a) Improving Teaching-
Learning Processes; (b) Providing a more Equitable Resource Base
for Under-served Schools; and (c) Enhancing Capacity to Manage
Quality Improvement?
(d) Are these components and the implementation, management, monitoring
and financing arrangements combined in an integrated plan?
(i) Improvement of the Teaching-Learning Processes
a. Is the Professional Support program (SPP) subcomponent
likely to lead to improved teaching and accive learning?



-42-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
b. Is the subcomponent to supply more and better quality
materials (texts, teachers, guides, local curriculum
modules etc.) likely to support improved teaching and
learning?
(ii) Provision of a more Eguitable Resource Base to Under-served
Schools
a. Is the subcomponent to provide discretionary grants to
under-served schools likely to have a positive effect on
teaching and learning?
b. Will they be likely to lead to greater equity in access to
educational quality and training between poor and well-off
schools and communities?
(iii) Enhancement of Capacity to Manage Quality Improvement
a. Are new administrative arrangemencs for managing the
Province's quality improvement program likely to lead to
improved support for school's teaching-learning activities?
b. Are the Province's monitoring activities likely to result
in its enhanced capacity to evaluate the outcomes of the
plan and to guide policy on planning and implementing
quality improvement.
2. Technical Design
(a)  Are the means and activities which will be undertaken to implement
the plan appropriate to achieving tbe project objective?
(b) Are the means and activities clearly defined?
(c) Are they measurable and monitorable, with precise targets, norms,
standards and utilization rates provided?
(d) Are they phased in the proper order over time in the detailed
implementation plans?
(e) Are the monitoring activities integrated in the policy planning
process adequately staffed and financed?
3. Implementation Capacity
(a) Are the implementation arrangements appropriate to timely and
thorough implementation of the action plan?
(b) Is the timing and duration appropriate to accomplish the tasks?



-43-
ANNEXJ 2
Page 3 of 4
(c)  Are responsible personnel clearly ia..tified for each activity and
are there appropriate numbers of personnel to fully accomplish the
tasks?
(d) Are channels of communication and lines of authority and
accountability to management clearly spelled out for personnel
responsible?
(e) Are monitoring and evaluation targets and responsibilities defined
in a monitoring and evaluation action plan?
(f) Is the appropriate level of administrative support, (eg. materials,
equipment, facilities) identified and made available to accomplish
the implementation, management and monitoring and evaluation tasks?
4. Cost Efficiency
(a) If the plan is considered sound on the above criteria, is it cost-
efficient to meet quality improvement targets on time and to
acceptable standards?
(b) Are incremental costs of quality improvement programs under the
project distinguishable from costs for all primary education
programs?
(c) Unit Cost. Are unit prices up to date and in line with lowest cost
calculations for similar activities in other provincial programs,
with national standards or Bank estimates?
(d) Is a system in place for updating prices of inputs?
(e) Utilization rates. Are the utilization rates of facilities and
equipment optimal for the tasks for which they are intended?
(f) Personnel Utilization. Are personnel efficiently utilized according
to their rank, qualifications, responsibilities and casks?
5. Adeguacv of Budget and Financing
(a) Are the per student expenditure norms in place adequate to improve
quality?
(b) Does the budgetary proposal clearly present, for each year of three
years, the financing sources and budgetary channels for quality
improvement expenditures?
(c) Does the statement clearly specify financing sources and budgetary
channels for quality improvement expenditures, as distinct from non-
quality-improvement expenditures?



-44-
ANfNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
(d) Does it distinguish recurrent non-salary, recurrent salary and
development expenditures?
(e) Is the statement consolidated clearly into one summary overview?
(f) Is a summary of the previous years, budget estimates and
expenditures available?
(g) Is a system in place to provide budget estimates and expenditures
for joint review by key planning and monitoring agencies?



-45-                                                 ANNEX I
Table _
IKD0NESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Overviow of Primary Educ5tion (1988/89/
Public         % Public        Private       % Private             Total
Schools                                   135,565        92.68           10,006         7.32              146,571
Students                              24,813,810         92.85        1,911,554         7.15           26,725,364
Sy Age Group
<V6                               1,662,996        90.11          182,483         9.89            1,845,479
7-12                            20,919,239         93.02        1,569,936         6.98           22,489,175
-13                               2,231,575         93.34         159,135         6.66            2,390,710
New Entrants                         4,208,873         92.66          333,361         7.34            4,542,234
Graduates                            3,129,797         92.34          Z59,751         7.66            3,389,548
Repeaters                            2,403,916         93.93          155,252         6.07            2,559,168
Teachers                                1,052,174        92.78           81,915         7.22             1,134,089
By Personnel Status
Civil Servant                     1,026,469         96.18           40,746        3.82             1,067,215
Non-Civil Servant                    25,705         38.44           41,169        61.56               66,874
By Sex
Male                                534,895         93.19           39,114        6.81               574,009
Female                              517,279         92.36           42,801        7.6'-              560,080
Classes                                   901,023         92.80           69,874        7.20               970,897
Owned Classrooms                          787,369         93.01           59,193        6.99               846,562
By Condition
Good                                452,867         91.80           40,465         8.20              493,332
Fair                                238,018         94.57           13,674        5.43               251,692
Bad                                  96,464         95.21            4,854         4.79              101,318
Not-Owned Classrooms                       12,709         82.14            2,764         17.86              15,473
Administrators                              3,030         52.12            2,783         47.88                5,813
School Guardians                           96,802         95.67            4,381         4.33               101,183
Ratios                                                                                                     Average
Students to School                       181.69                         191.04                             182.33
Students to Ctlsses                       27.53                          27.35                              27.52
Students to Teachers                      23.58                          23.33                              23.56
Classes to Schools                         6.59                           6.98                               6.62
Classes to Owned Classroom                 1.14                           1.18                               1.15
Classes to Teachers                        0.85                           0.85                               0.79
Teachers to Schools                        7.70                           8.19                               7.73
Administrators to Schools                  0.02                           0.28                               0.03
School Guardians to Schools                0.70                           0.44                               0.69
Source:  Statistical Yearbook for Primerv Education, 1988/89, NOEC,
Office of Research and Developme nt, Center for Information.



INDONESIA
PRIMARY EWDUCATI0N QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Primary Schools. Students, Teachers, Ciasses and Classrooms by Province - (19M-89)
No.   Province                Schools      Students      Entrants     Graduates   Repeaters    Teachers    Classes   Own Class-    Not Owned
_ ____________________                           to  Grade  I                                                     Room        Classroom
1  O.K.l. JAKARIA            3.521      1,052.551       182,105      148,346       60,944       37,607    28,683       19,209       260
2  Wdest Java                24.346     4,834.521       839,319      619,353      286,895      180,068   169,067      138,684    3,054
3   Central Java             21.996     4,066,200       670,393      555,223      399,616      184,933   138,348      129,769     1,692
4   D.I.YOGYAIARTA            2.325       407.308        65,777       60,700       40,759       21,538    16,1iS       14.689       494
5   East Java                22,259     4,026,115       656,398      576.189      347,423      172,175   144,548      132,781     3,708
6   D.I.ACEH                  2.954       522.340        84,250       62,178       58,950       23,809    19,223        17,732      173
7   NORTH SfiATRA             9,234     1,838,558       329,195      229,992      161,909       79.399    64,650       57,085       833
8   WEST SUMATRA              4,125       704,176        119,976      89,491       80,239       31,107    26,918       25,667       462
9   RIAU                      2,858       520.942        94,634       54.559       59,062       20,492    19,196       15,222       355
10  JANBI                      2,120       349.460        60,192       38.506       39,625       15.722    13,968       11,993        66
11  SOUTH SIKATRA              5,254     1,093,873       190,252      116,044      129,440       40,;54    37,490       29,274     1,825            40
12  BENGKULU                   1,483       237,503        45,875       23,033       26,407       10,645     8,929        8,017        67
13  LAlPUiMC                  4,221      1,139,164       207,643      119,782       91,862       36,640    37,765       26,325       228
14  WEST KALIMANTAN            3,517       553,633       101,516       53,895       84,323       23,216    21,744       17,399       170
15  CENTRAL KALIANITAN         3,448       263,543        5T,215       23,977       31,916       13,917    12,539       11,250        81
16  SOUTH KALIMANTAN           2,929       376,023        60,916       44,284       52,502       20,648    17,648       16,475        53
17  EAST KALIMANTAN            1,831       336,276        66,249       35,910       30,413       14,737    13,406       10,226        92
18   IOR7T SULAWESI            2,903       410,868        63,228       60,572       49,419       26,006    19,299       18,988        76
19  CENTRAL SULAIESI           2,274       308,506        46,760       36,051       45,394       14,685    14,062       12,651       139
20   SOUTH SULAUESI            7,101     1,180,522        180,679     146,816      156,736       53,687    48,541       41,180       611
21   SULAIESI SE               1,648       242,696        40,958       30,515       27,398       12,156    10,312        9,698        45
22  MALUKU                     2,385       330,917        51,884       39,168       46.259       14,464    14,961       12,657       491
23   BALI                      2,699       406,755        71,591       64,281       24,623       22,574    16,899       17,413        35
24   WEST N.TENGGARA           2,760       542,187        88,313       59,827       62,800       21,974    17.930       15,922         9
25   EAST N.TEMGGARA           3,776       611,495        98,462       65,809      113,280       25,813    23,392       24,021       197
26   IRIAN JAVA       ~~~2,037     242,248        45,593       22,371       39,419       11,147    10,881        9,234       104               r'
26  IRIAll JAYA                1,03        24224          4553         2,7           949         1,4        OM            ,3          0            
27  EAST T1ime                   565       126.984        22.961       12.926       11 455        4n776     4.322        3.001       153             t
_  TOAll                146.571    26.725.364     4.542.234    3.389.548   2.559.168    1.134,089   970.896       846.562    15.473
Souite: Statistical Yearbook for Primary Education, 1988/89, MOEC Office of Research and Development, Center for Information.



-47-
ANNEX 4
Table A
INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
profiles of Two Provinces: West Sumatra and East Nusa Tenggara
National     West Sumatra   East Nusa
Tenggara
General Information
Area (km2)                                  1,919,440          42,297       47,389
Number of Districts                               324              14           13
Number of Sub-districts                         3,529             100           98
Number of Villages                             66,391           3,533        1,723
Population Estimate                      179,136,100        3,904,725   3,383,490
Annual Population Grou;-.h Rate
(1985-90)                                       2.1            1.23         2.36
X of Total Population                             100            2.59.        2.49
Sex Ratio (per 100 Female) (1990)                  99              95           98
Number of Household (1985)                 35,889,000         725,000      572,000
Average Household Size (Person)                   I 6             5.1           5.4
Household Expenditure Per
Capita (Rupiah) (1987)                       21,494          25,459       15,998
Infant Mortality Rate
(per 1,000 Live Births) (1985)                   71              78           74
Illiteracy Rate
(Z Pop. 10 and over) (1985)                    19.1              11           26
Labor Force Participation Rate (X) (1988)           53            51.5         72.0
, of Population by Education Attainment
Urban:
No Schooling                                    13.4              8.5          8.8
Attending School                                38.0             39.9         41.4
Not Attending School                            48.6             51.6         49.8
Rural:
No Schooling                                    24.7             14.7         27.2
Attending School                                 26.7            33.2         26.7
Not Attending School                            48.6             52.1         46.1
Total:
No Schooling                                     21.7            13.9         25.5
Attending School                                 28.5            34.1         28.0
Not Attending School                            49.8             52.0         46.5
Economic Information
Gross Domestic Product at Current
Price (1987) (Million Rp.)             124,538,900       2,148,700       830,500
Gross Domestic Product per Capita
at Current Price (1987) (Rp.'000)           706,920          565,600      261,700
Note: All data are for 1989 unless otherwise indicated.
Source: Statistical Yearbook of Indonesia, 1989.
Data Pendidikan (1988.89), Pusat Informatika, 1989.
World Bank estimates.



-48-                                                   89NEX 4
Table 8
INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROvEMENT PROJECT
Educational Profile of Indonesia. West Sumatra and East Nuso Tenoaar|
(1988 89)
Province:                                            Indonesia                    West Sumatra          East Muss Tenggara
Population:                                         179,136,100                     3,904,725                   3,383,490
No. of Sch. District                                        297                              8                          12
No. of Sub-district                                       3,601                            102                          98
X of Adults with No Schooling                             21.7X                          13.9X                       25.5X
No. of Kindergartens                                     36,190                            901                         467
No. of Teachers                                          81,426                         2,218                        1,115
No. of Children                                       1,568,450                        35,189                       21,540
Primary Level
No. of Schools                                        146,571                         4,125                        3,776
No. of Teachers                                     1,134,089                        31,107                       25,813
No. of New Students                                 4,542,234                       119,976                       98,462
No. Enrolled                                      26,725,364                        704,176                      611,49f
No. of Gradustes                                    3,389,548                        89,491                       65,809
Mo. of Repeaters                                    2,559,068                        80,239                      113,280
No. of Drop-outs                                    1,077.212                         31,739                      30,499
Student/School Ratio                                      182                            171                         162
Teacher/School Ratio                                      7.7                            7.5                         6.8
Classroom/School Ratio                                    6.6                            6.2                         6.4
Student/Teacher Ratio                                    23.6                             23                          24
Classroom Ratio                                           0.7                            0.8                         0.9
Teacher/Class Ratio                                      1.16                            0.9                         0.9
Student/Class Ratio                                      27.5                             23                          24
Primary Classroom                                       846,562                         25,667                      24,021
Good                                                  493,352                         17,236                      10,512
Fair                                                  251,892                          6,567                       9,062
Bad                                                   101,318                          1,864                       4,447
Lower Secondary Level
No. of Schools                                         19,992                            391                          485
No. of Teachers                                       404,409                         10,326                        7,482
No. of New Students                                 2,157,206                         64,925                       40,183
No. of Enrolled                                     6,346,060                        192,712                      120,232
No. of Graduates                                    1,885,676                         56,253                       29,105
Sch/Pupil Ratio                                           317                            493                          248
Teach/Pupil Ratio                                           16                            19                           16
Upper Secondary Level
No. of Schools                                          7,404                             155                         111
No. of Teachers                                       200,509                          2,296                        5,963
No. of New Students                                   934,061                         13,502                       28,408
No. of Enrolled                                     2,600,053                         37,548                       82,355
No. of Graduates                                      676,694                          7,705                       21,913
Sch/Student Ratio                                          351                           242                          742
Teach/Student Ratio                                         13                             16                          14
Tertiary Level
No. of Universities                                        792                             35                           9
No. of Teachers                                       115,359                           2,880                         926
No. of Students                                     1,179,489                         45,829                       12,205
Student/School Ratio                                     1,489                          1,309                       1,356
Student/Teacher Ratio                                       10                             16                           13



-49-
ANNEX 5
Table 
INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION OUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Central Government Budget for Primary Education (APBN):
By Budgetary Channels and Administering Agencies. 1988/89-1990/91
(in million Rupiah)
Budgetary Channel Li                 1988/89          1989/90         1990/91
SBPP (MOF/MOHA)                        76,000           74,750          78,000
SDO Salary (MOF/MOHA)               2,138,824        2,386,750       2,763,728
INPRES - SD (BAPPENAS/MOHA)           130,500          100,000         369,500
DIP (MOEC)                              2,200            6,497           10,852
DIK (MOEC)                                n/a               n/a             n/a
Total                            2.347.524        2.567.997       3.222.080
Growth rate (Z)                                  9.4            25.5
La Main administering ministries.



INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QJL ITY JIPNOVENENT PROJECT
Central Gover*mmnt Budbet for Primary Educat!on
CAPUN): Budgetary Share by Categorv of Use 1988/89--1990/91
SDO
Uses of Furxds                                                 Sol ..  _ Slry..     IRJES              DIP               Total                +
qm  1EY                                   I  .        (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mi ttion Rtp)  _1
A. on-s               t                     52 5                0.0                  36.2              11.9             334,866             4.1
1  ionetary grants for chools
(teaching/learning operation)            25.2                0.0                  17.9              0.0              162 268            2.0
2. Maintenance  nd repairs                   1.5                0.0                  17.8              0.0              110.056             1.4
3. SLupervision (duty) allowance             0.5                0.0                   0.0              7.6                2,571             0.0
4. Administration
a. School level                           9.6                0.0                   0.0              0.0               21,179             0.3
b. National level                         0.2                0.0                   0.0              0.0                  399             0.0
c. Regional level                         0.8                0.0                   0.0              0.0                1,819             0.0
5. Monitoring and evaluation                14.3                0.0                  OS               4.3               35,762             0.4
6. Other S8PP subsidies not included
above except eoployees welfare
benefits                               0.4                0.0                   0.0              0.0                  812             0.0            I
U'
B. Salaries and other remunerations         46.4               99.9                   0.0              0.0            7 383,157            90.9
1. -ea-cer salaries                         43.1               93.3                   0.0              0.0            6,897,532           84.9
2. S0 Supervisors' salaries                  0.0                0.0                   0.0              0.0                    0             0.0
3. Salaries of non-teaching staff            3.3                6.6                   0.0              0.0              485,625             6.0
4. Employees' welfare benefits               0.0                0.0                   0.0               0.0                   0             0.0
C. Won-recurrent/oroiect ewenditure          1.1                0.1                  63.8              88.1             410,438             5.0
1. Construction expenditures0002.213
a. Rehabilitation                         0.0                0.0                  42.3              0.5              253,125             3.1
b. New So buildings                       0.0                0.0                   8.8              0.0               52,415             0.6
c. Other new building                     0.0                0.0                   4.5              0.0               27,142             0.3
d. Additional classrooms                  0.0                0.0                   3.5              0.0               21,174             0.3
e. Other  dditional rooms                 0.0                0.0                   0.0              0.0                    0             0.0
2. Training
a. leachers                               0.0                0.0                   0.0             30.8                6.024             0.1
b. Supervisors                            0.0                0.0                   0.0              0.0                    0             0.0
c. Others                                 0.0                0.1                   0.0              0.0                8,806             0.1
3. Books  nd other learning/teaching
aids for SD                             0.0                0.0                   3.3             43.1               28,463             0.4
4. Curriculmu and teaching/learning          0.0                0.0                   0.1              10.4               2 380             0.0
materials development                   0 0
S. Other (not included above)                1.1                0.0                   1.3              3.3               10 909             0.1
D. Total                                   100.0              100.0                 100.0             100.0
-Total (million Rp)                   221,111          7,289,301               598,500            19.549           a,1280461           100.0           I4
X of Total Budget                     2.7               89.70
to L



PPINARY EDUCATION WAMLITY INPU ETE   PIOJICT
Central Coverrnent fudbet for Primary Edue tion
CAPB): bv Chanel md mse 1990/I    V
SDO
Uses of Funds                                 EPP.or.. l il PitE INiPE                                                       at TL _el.
A. Ion-salary recurrent evenditur           54.7               0.0                   26.9               9.6              143.166
1.     tynetary grants for schoe *
(teaching/learning  peration)            24.8              0.0                    13.2               0.0              68.271                    2
2. Maintenance wnd repairs                   0.0               0.0                   13.2               0.0               48.920                    2
3. Supervision (3uty) alluownce              0.5               0.0                    0.0               8.7                1.313                   0
4. Adsinistration
a. School level                           13.4              0.0                    0.0               0.0               10,414                   0
b. Retional level                         0.2               0.0                    0.0               0.0                  170                   0
c. Regional levet                         0.8               0.0                    0.0               0.0                  607                   0
S.  onitoring and evaluation                 14.?              0. 0                   0.4               0.8               13,200                    0
6. Other SOPP sshsidies not included
above euceot eqployees welfare
benefits                                  0.3               0.0                    0.0               0.0                  271                    0
S. Salaries and other rezuserations         44.8              99.9                    0.0               0.0            2,796,684                   8?
1. lea her 5claries                         41.3             93.1                     0.0               0.0            2,605,103                  e1
2. 50 Supervisors, saleries                  0.0               0.0                    0.0               0.0                    0                    0
3. Salaries of non-teaching staff            3.5               6.8                    0.0               0.0              191,581                    6
4. Employees  weltfore benefits              0.0               0.0                    0.0               0.0                    0                    0
C. Non-recgrrentiDroiect exsonditre           0.5              0.1                   73.1              90.4              282.230                    9
1. Construction expenditres
a. Rehabilitation                         0.0               0.0                   55.2               0.3              204,062                   6
b. New SD buildings                       0.0               0.0                    7.0               0.0               25,852                    1
c. Other new building                     0.0               0.0                    3.8               0.0               14.110                    1
d. Additional clessroom                   0.0               0.0                    3.6               0.0               13,349                   0
e. Other additional room                  0.0               0.0                    0.0               0.0                    0                   0
2. Training
a. leachers                               0.0               0.0                    0.0              27.3               2.966                    0
b  Surrvisore                             0.0               0.0                    0.0               0.0                   0                    0
c: =irs                                   0.0               0.1                    0.0               0.0                t,964                   0
3. Books and other learning/teaching         0                 0.0                    2.5              5                                           1
aids for SDO.                                                .                      .               61I.8 
4. Curriculua and teaching/learning0
_ terirls dtwenp i it                     0.0               0.0                    0.1               4.4                  716                   0
5. Other (not included above)                0.5               0.0                    0.9               2.3               4,022                    0
0. Tota                                       100              100                    100               100                                       100
Total (Sitlion Rp)                     78,000         2.763 728                36900              10,852            3.222 080                 100
% of Total Budget                         2.4             CS.8                    11.4               0.4                i6o.0              100.00



INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION UALiTY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Provincial Particioation in Project Activities
COMPONENT              A. tmprove Teaching-Learning Processes
SUW-COWPONENT           (a) Teacher Professional Development Program                                              (b) Teacher Pronotion Opportunities
*Develop SPP/CBSA progrm     *Formative Activities an 7eaching-
learning Process including
School Ciuster,
Training, Start-up and                               Teacher Groups,
Implementation to School     Role Development       Materials work-        School                               Feasibility
Level             through In-service          shops             Quality        Field Analysis        Studies
Province
West Sumatra                       x                          x                      x                 x               x                      x
East Musa Tenggara                 x                          x                      x                 x               x
D.I. Aceh                          x                          x                      x                 x                                                        an
D.I. Yogyakarta                    x                          x                      x                 x                                                         I
Bali                               x                          x                      x                 x
North Sulawesi                     x                          x                      x                 x
Jambi
Riau
Bengkulu
West Kalimantan
East Kalimentan
Central Sulauesi
Central Katiwntan
Maluku
Irian Jays
East Timor
Southeast Sulawesi
North SLuatra
South Sunmtra
Lampwug
DKI Jakarta
West Java
Central Java
East Java
west Nusa Tenggara
South Keli_mntan
South Sulawesi
to
oIs



C    wPONENT            A. (Continued)
SUB-CONPW3ENT           (c) Development and Supply of More and Better Ouality
looks and Printed Educational Materials
Distribution of          Surveys of Book                                           Materials       look oev-
Appraisl Guidelines         Needs Mechani-       Suippl Materials      Bulletin      Training         elopment            Policy
Province                                                   isms
West Sumatra                      x                        x                      x                 x             x                x                x
East Musa tenggara                x                       x                       x                 x             x               x                 x
D.l Aceh                          x                        x                      x                 x             x                x                x
D.  YTogyakarta                   x                       x                       x                 x             x               x                 x
Bali                              x                       x                       x                 x             x               x                 x
North Sulawesi                    x                       x                       x                 x             x               x                 x
Jambi                             x                                                                 x                                               x
Riau                              x                                                                 x                                               x
sengku(u                          x                                                                 x                                               x
West Kalimantan                   x                                                                 x                                               x
East Kalimaantan                  x                                                                 x                                               x
Central Sulawesi                  a                                                                 x                                               x
Central Kalimantan                x                                                                 x                                               x
Naluku                            x                                                                 x                                               x
Irian Jaya                        x                                                                 x                                               x
Ea%t lImor                        x                                                                 x                                               x
Suuthea%t Sulawesi                x                                                                 x                                               x
Iodth Sumatra                     A                                                                 x                                               x
South Sumatra                     x                                                                 x                                               x
tafpung                           x                                                                 x                                               x
DKI Jakarta                       x                                                                 x                                               x
West Java                         x                                                                 x                                               x
Central Java                      x                                                                 x                                               K
East Java                         x                                                                 x                                               x
West Nusa Tenggara                x                                                                 x                                               x
South Katimantan                                                                                    K                                               K
South Sulawesi                    x                                                                 x                                               x
fD jni
t,~
Gi



IONE1T               S. Special Assistance to Under-served Schools
Train Principals                                 Supervise wd
Identify Schools             of Under-served             Supply SAFs to        Monitor Use of
-ovince                to be Tatgeted                   Schools              Under-served Schools          SAFs            Supply Newsletter
st Sumtra                  x   1992/93                     x                        x                      x                        x
st Nusa Tenggara           x   1992/93                     x                        x                       x                       x
1 Aceh                     x   1992/93                     x                        x                      x                        x
1. Togyakarta              x   1993/94                     x                        x                      x                        x
Ii                         x   1993/94                     x                        x                      x                        x
rth Sulawesi               x   1993/94                     x                        x                      x                        x
anbi
au
ngkulu
st Kalimantan
St Kai iuantan
ntral Sulawesi
f.tral Kal imntan
luku
-ian Jaya
st Timor*                  x                            x                          x                                    x
utheast Sulawesi*          x                               x                                    x                       x                                    VI
rth Sumatra
uth Sumatra
^pung'                it                             itx  x                    x                      1                        x
. Jakarta
'i,t Java
ntral Java *                               x                            x                                   x                       x
st Java
,st Musa Tenggara*         x                               x                         x                      x                       x
uth Kalimintan
:th Sulawesi*              x                               x                        x                       x                       x
Tentatively identified for study and start-up activities in CFY 1994/95.
to M.
0
4-1



CONlPOEMI              C. Ernhace Capacity to Manage  uality lwrovemnt
SU8-CONPONENT          (a) Introduce             (b) lwrove                                    (C) Devetop
Monitor new              financial                                     NOEC Institutioal
Provincial Admini-       Ptaming and                                    Capabiilies
strative Procedures      Budgetary                                     and Devetop
and Practices            Processing                                    and tmptement
Evaluation
and Policy
Studies
studies
Develop Guidelines       Develop System     Develop      Fornulate     lnpact of    Effect of  Student   Surveys   IEC wnd
for NOEC and DIMAS       for Presenting     Integrated  Cost Stand-    SP'I/ICSA     School      Outcome   Sdchols   Project
Staff Responsibili-      & Reviewing        Expendi-    ards for       Assistance    Indica-      Needs    Nwnals
ties              Consolidated        twe        Quality                      Funds       tors
Budgetary          Plans      lIprovement
Informtion on                  and Survey
Primary Educa-                 Schools
tion Expendi-
tures & Sources
of Funds
Province
West Sumatra                             x                            x               x              x            x           x         x           x
East Nusa lenggara                       x                   x                x                      x            x           x         x           x
0.1. Aceh                                                                                             x            x                                x
0D1. Yogyakarta                                                                                       x           x                                 x
Bali                                                                                                 x                                              x
North Sulawesi                                                                                                                                      K
Jambi                                                                                                                                               x
Riau                                                                                                                                                x
Bengkutu                                                                                                                                            x
west Kalimantan                                                                                                                                     x
East Kalimantan                                                                                                                                     x
Central Sulawesi                                                                                                                                    x
Central Kalimantan                                                                                                                                  x
Maluku                                                                                                                                              x
Irian Jaya                                                                                                                                          x
East Timor                                                                                                                                          x
Southeast Sulavesi                                                                                                                                  x
North Sumtra                                                                                                                                        x
South Sumtra                                                                                                                                        x
Log"                                                                                                                                                x
DlK Jakarta                                                                                                                                         x
west Java                                                                                                                                           x
Central Java                                                                                                                                        x
East Java                                                                                                                                           x
west Musa Tenggara                                                                                                                                  x
South Kalimantan                                                                                                                                    x
South Sulawesi                                                                                                                                      A
4:-
0



-56-                           AEX 7
Page 1 of 10
INDONESI
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Teacher Professional SuRRort and Student Active Learning (SPP/CBSA)
1.        The broad obiective of the subcomponent is to establish a system of
professional development for teachers, principals and supervisors in active
teaching and learning. Specific objectives are to strengthen the capabilities
of the following: (a) teachers so that they have: (i) sufficient
understanding of the curriculum content to be able to help children learn
better; (ii) sufficier.t pedagogical skill to be able to select from a variety
of teaching methods and materials to suit the Lhildren's abilities and to
maximize use of teaching time; and to be able to use a variety of ways to
assess children's learning; (iii) sufficient confidence to act professionally
through sharing ideas about tenching and to seek guidance and support by
working collaboratively with other teachers, principals and supervisors; (b)
2rinci2all to provide professional leadership and classroom support to
teachers; including technical, budgetary and community support aspects; (c)
advisory teachers to provide professional support for teachers in schools, at
teachers' clubs and through in-service training activities (Tables 1 and 2) at
teachers' centers; (d) suRervisors to monitor curriculum implementation and
student achievement; to identify training requirements of teachers, principals
and advisory teachers; and to m%nitor the impact of training and professional
support activities; (e) educational managers at provincial, district and sub-
district levels to set goals for educational achievements, to plan and carry
out actions to meet these goals nad to monitor and evaluate progress; (f)
instructors and tutors at district and sub-district level to plan and conduct
training programs based on teachers, needs; and to support teachers in
classrooms and in teachers' clubs for development of teaching practices and
teaching-learning materials; (g) core schools (SD INTI) of the school cluster
to be an example of good practice in school management and curriculum
implementation and a source of materials and professional leadership -Jr
schools of the cluster; (h) teachers' centers at sub-district level (Sanggar
Sumbar Belajar/Pusat Kegiatan Guru) to provide a variety of workshops and in-
service training programs for teachers, principals and others; to provide
resources for loan to schools (SD IMBAS); to produce teaching and learning
materials; (i) the orovincial and district offices of the MOEC for Primary
Education to plan, implement, support and monitor for quality improvements in
primarv classrooms; (j) the central MOEC curriculum units to provide technical
assistance to the provincial MOEC Primary Education Curriculum Section in
implementing curriculum innovations and in curriculum evaluation; and (k) the
clntral MOEC Directorate of Primary Education to provide national guidelines
for quality improvements; to provide technical assistance to provincial
education units in preparation of provincial project activities--their
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation strategies--to bring about
quality improvement in primary schools.



-57-                           ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 10
2.        To address the issues and to achieve the objectives of the
subcomponent some activities will be organized or coordinated at national
level and others, the major interventions, will be implemented at district
level. The Central Proiect Management Unit, Specialist Assistant for Teaching
and Learning with help from local and foreign consultants, will:  (a) prepare
guidelines for management of in-service training and Rrofessional supoort;
produce national guidelines for design of district level training programs,
including appropriate scope and sequence of blocks of training and links with
activities for school development and teachers' meetings; produca guidelines
for preparation of training manuals and support materials; and (b) coordinate
and manage in-service training and staff develoDment: train a core of four
full-time tutors from each sub-district who will work with the supervisors to
provide in-service teacher training in student active learning methods and
follow-up training by assisting teachers in classrooms and advisory teachers
at teachers' meetings; train supervisors in school development, school
supervision and professional support and planning and monitoring for
qualitative change; train district level and provincial staff in management
for a "qualitative change" - establishing priorities, goal setting, planning
resource allocation for implementation, monitoring and evaluation of impact of
in-service training and professional support activities; organize local and
overseas short courses and fellowships for selected Directorate and provincial
staff in curriculum implementation strategies, student and teacher performance
monitoring and resource management; coordinate inter-provincial study visits
for district and provincial level educators' staff from project centers to
examine SPP/CBSA in practice.
3.        The Central Project Management Unit, Specialist Assistant for
Teaching and Learning and for Monitoring, with technical assistance from the
MOEC Office of Research and Development, will guide SPP/CBSA practitioners to
conduct formative studies for SPP/CBSA, such as, design and administer
baseline teacher and principal proficiency tests; provide guidance to district
level managers to set up mechanisms for routine monitoring of training impact
and professional development activities in SPP/CBSA, using baseline data to
establish indicators of change in proficiency; conduct a study in schools with
small classes and multiple class teaching to examine alternative patterns of
curriculum management, methods and materials that reflect student active
learning approaches; build on research and development activities already
being undertaken for small schools and schools in remote and isolated areas;
conduct an investigation of alternative patterns of school clustering as a
model for increasing the availability of resources and for increasing
professional support to teachers in a variety of geographical contexts, in
particular, in small remote schools; and identify the minimum resource
requirements of primary schools in terms of teachers, books, teaching and
learning materials, and essential facilities that are required in order to
implement student active learning approaches.
4.        At Rrovincial level (Table 3).  The District Education Officers
(Head and the Primary Schools Unit) (Kandep and Kasi Dikdas) will be
responsible for: (a) providing in-service training and grofessional
develogment: Head of the Kandep and Kanwil would appoint four full-time
tutors from each of the three selected sub-districts of the district for in-



-58-                          AEX7
Page 3 of 10
service training and for follow up support for teachers in classrooms and
teachers, meetings; the sub-district (Kancam) Head and supervisors would
establish networks at school cluster and sub-district level for linking in-
service training, teazhers' and principals, meetings, and school development
programs: te&tchers' and principals' workshops, in-service training organizers
at sub-district and district level and supervisors' coordinating workshops at
district level; tutors would train teachers with princi'als in preparation and
use of teaching-learning materials, including use of basic textbooks, and
active teaching-learning methods; instructors will train principals in school
management and professional support and strategies for school development
policies that lead to qualitative change; tutors will train advisory teachers
(pemandu bidang studi) for peer support at school cluster level; district
education staff (MOEC and DINAS P&K, Level II) would conduct seminars on
community participation and parental involvement for school managers,
principals and community leaders; (b) producing teaching-learnix- and training
materials: district instructors and tutors would produce training guides and
teaching materials for follow-up training activity at school and at teachers'
and principals' meetings; district instructors and tutors would produce course
outlines, manuals and support materials for district level training programs;
(c) providing Rrofessional support to teachers: principals would supervise
and give professional support to teachers in implementing student active
learning methods and in bringing about qualitative changes in student
performance; and in-service coordinating teams at district/sub-district level
would prepare plans and implement strategies for linking in-service training,
school development activities and follow-up activities at teachers' and
principals' clubs; (d) supervision and monitoring: supervisors would
coordinate planning and implementation of in-service training and professional
support activities at teachers', principals' meetings and the resource
centers; education managers (Head of Sub-district) and school supervisors
would supervise and monitor impact of training and professional support groups
on classroom practice; education managers (Head of District (Kasi Dikdas) and
supervisors) would monitor student achievement and set quality goa's for the
schools of the district and sub-district; and (e) management for school
improvement some education managers at district level will manage resources
for quality improvement across schools of the district and coordinate in-
service training needs and materials production and distribution for project
implementation.
5.        District level teacher professional development:  In-service
training courses will be linked to peer tutoring in classrooms and at
teachers' workshops. Regular in-service training courses will be provided for
teachers and principals. This will allow the introduction, enhancement anci
consolidation of active teaching methods and enable these teachers and
principals, step by step, to provide examples of better teaching practice in
the district and the province. The principal's role is important in providing
adequate resources for teaching and learning and a school climate that
encourages teachers to try the innovations. So that they understand the
active teaching methods being introduced, they will be included in in-service
training courses for teachers, and, all teachers from their school will have
an opportunity to attend training courses over the life of the project. This
is to support the development of quality in the whole school through



-59-                          4OLX 7
Page 4 of 10
implementation of active teaching methods and other quality inputs. These
management issues will be the basis of specific training for principals and
would be linked to principal training provided through the under-served
schools' component. The total number of hours per year for teacher in-service
training may be flexibly distributed over blocks of time best suited to
individual sub-districts (Table 1). For example, within the six weeks of
training in the first year, a two-week initial block of in-service training
could be followed by two blocks of one week each plus weekend or one day
sessions to complete the six-weeks-equivalent training. However, the goals of
the programs and the content will be planned as an integrated package. Timing
for teacher in-service training and program goals will be decided by in-
service coordinating groups at sub-district (pengurus PKG) and district (KKPS)
levels.  The selection of training content will be based on inquiry and
learning skills and problem-solvi'.g strategies for students; and, in teachers,
ways to assess students, learning and to plan teaching-learning actions based
on the assessment. Eventually, district in-service coordinating teams will
identify quality targets for schools of the district and will provide a
variety of teacher professional development programs to azhieve the goals. In
that situation, training would be based on teachers' needs and interests
identified through monitoring mechanisms. However, in the first years of the
project, the content of district training may be fairly similar across all
project sites. As district teams develop skills and experience, they will be
able to identify quality goals, and plan, conduct and monitor training
programs to suit locally identified target groups. It is expected that,
depending on participants' experience, training content will be selected from
some of the following areas of study: the particular learning needs of
students in grades 1-3; the acquisition of reading and writing skills in the
national language and its development across the curriculum; active teaching
and learning in the upper grades for the core subjects; and, where
appropriate, active teaching and learning methods appropriate to multiple
grade teaching situations. Monitoring, in this case, would be based assessing
the impact of training in meeting the identified goals. In addition to the
regular in-service training programs, in-service training coordinating groups
will identify areas of interest to teachers and principals and provide
occasional additional workshops for preparing learning activities and
instructional materials at resource centers.
6.        In the project there are two categories of in-service trainels:
Instructors and Tutors. Instructors will conduct in-service training courses
for principals and advisory teachers in the district. They will be selected
from amongst supervisors, D2 tutors, and other education staff at district or
provincial level. They will conduct in-service training courses as part of
their functional duties on a part-time basis.  Tutors, on the other hand, will
be full-time master teachers on secondment from :heir schools. They will be
responsible, under the supervision of the Head of the Sub-district MOEC office
and the Kasi Dikdas, for the in-service training courses for teachers, on- 'e-
job peer tutoring in classrooms that follows in-service training, and support
to the Advisory Teacher who conducts teachers' workshops at the school cluster
level. They will be selected from master teachers in the sub-district and
trained for their role in in-service teacher training, peer tutoring in
classrooms and assistance to advisory teachers. A maximium of four from each



-60-
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 10
of the project sub-districts will be appointed on a full-time basis and their
immediate manager will be the supervisor of the sub-district. The appointment
of full-time master teachers as tutors will provide for a greater amount of
training to be integrated with school development; it will assist teachers and
principals to adapt ideas from training to the realities of individual
classrooms; and it will accelerate the adoption of active teaching methods in
classrooms. In addition, it will provide a core of trained and experienced
master teachers who will be available as tutors to other sub-districts and
districts in the long-term expansion of SPP/CBSA in the province.  The tutor
role is a new development for accelerated quality improvement in classrooms
and it will be evaluated for its long-term feasibility.
7.        In-service training courses are only one part of an integrated
teacher professional development program. Tutors will follow up training by
working with teachers in their classrooms to try ideas and to develop learning
activities and instructional materials at teachers' workshops led by Advisory
Teachers. This continued peer support from Tutors will provide feedback to
planning of needs based on teacher professional development activities. Table
2 illustrates how this wjll be done.
8.        Attendance at workshops, in-service training courses, preparation of
teaching learning materials, and taking leadership roles are professional
activities for which teachers may gain credit under the Credit Point (Angka
Kredit) system. It will be the responsibility of the district education
officer in-service training teams to accredit these activities where they meet
the criteria. This will link with project activities on promotion
opportunities for teachers.



-61-                          ANNE 7
Page 6 of 10
Table 1: Provision of In-Service Training Courses in Six Provinces
Year 1         Year 2          Year 3
introduce      enhance         consolidate
Dislrict In-service Training Courses
1. Teachers "                       6 weeks         4 weeks        4 weeks
plus materials to assist         2+2+2           2+1+1          2+1+1
in class teaching
2. Principals                       2 weeks         2 weeks         2 weeks
plus materials for use in
school development and at KKKS
3. Advisory teachers                                6 weeks        4 weeks
plus materials to assist                         2+2+2           2+1+1
teachers at school and at KKG
National/Regional In-service Training Courses
4. Supervisors                      4 weeks         2 weeks         2 weeks
plus materials to assist
supervision/support foe
schools and resource centers
5. Tutors                           4 weeks         2 weeks         2 weeks
plus guidelines for
preparing training, follow-
up to training in school and
at teachers' iasetings
6. Education managers               4 weeks         (2 weeks        1 week
plus guidelines for project                       study visit)
implementation and monitoring
and evaluation at provincial,
disrtict and sub-district level.
LA  The amount of in-service training for teachers will need to be reviewed
where the same teachers are also involved in the D2 upgrading program.



-62-
ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 10
Table 2:  Teacher Professional Development:  In-Service Training
DISTRICT
In-service Training                Selects training goals, target
Coordinator                        groups; organizes resources; plans
training content and materials;
coordinates all in-service in
district (D2, SPP/CBSA, principals
under-served schools).
Instructors                        Conduct training for principals and
advisory teachers.
SUB-DISTnRICT                      Coordinates training for teachers;
Teacher Workshops (Pengurus         tutors classroom visits; plans for
PKG)                                teachers, workshops to develop
materials and learning activities.
Supervisor                         Makes work program for tutors,
classroom and teacher workshop
visits, advises tutors, monitors
teachers and principals adoption of
ideas, monitors change in children's
learning activity.
Tutors                              Conduct training for teachers, visit
classrooms and work with teachers,
assist advisory teachers at
teachers' workshops, prepare
teaching and learning materials,
monitor application of training
ideas and practice.
CLUSTER
SD INTI Principal                   Organizes teacher workshops and
principal meetings; coordinates
activity of advisory teachers;
provides facilities for materials
workshops and distribution of
resources to schools of cluster.
SCHOOL
Principal                           Sets school goals, supports
implementation of active teaching
methods, conducts regular staff
meetings, consults with tutor on
classroom visits, monitors
children's progress.
Teacher                             Uses active teaching methods and
make instructional materials; guided
by tutors visits to class and
attendance at teachers' workshops;
supported by principal's school
policy and management and regular
ccnsultation with other teachers in
the school.



Table 3: OBJECTIVE:  To Establish a Sntem of Professional Development for Teachers. Princioals. and Supervisors in Active Teahins and Learnin
IIDICATOIIS Of
INTERVENTIONS                     ACNIEVEMENT                                  NOW                       By WIWI            WEl N          fOR UtM             USE
In-service training for         Teachers understand the curriculto        Teacher assessment. Tutors        Supervisor         Annually        Principals        Set targets,
teachers  nd                    well enough to help children learn        records of peer teaching                                                               provide
professioral support            actively,                                 visits.                                                                                support. plan
through development and                                                                                                                                          train-
teachers groups                                                                                                                                                  ing
Teachers select from a variety of         Interviews with teachers,         Supervisors,       Each term       Ed. Manager       Set targets
teaching methods  nd mterlais to          students. tutors.                 principals.                       District/          for teacher
suit children's interest  nd                                                tutors              Prior to       Sub-District      performance
abitities, and to mximize use of          Classroom obsvrvation.                                each
teaching time,                                                                                  training
Teachers use a variety of ways to         Records of children's work.       Principals,        Each term       Teachers          Plan leaming
assess children's learning.               Teachers records.                 supervisors.        Each term
In servies training for        Principats altow time to actively          Records schoot meetings.          Supervisor         Each tem       Education          Set school
pri'nlpals and for              supervise teachers' work  nd              Interviews with staff.                                               Maaes             perfornmce
professional support            childrens' progress and hold                                                                                   District/         goals
through school                  regular meetings relating to                                                                                   Sub-District
developrent activities          celassroom practice.                                                                                           Province
nd principals' gros.
Teachers have mony to buy or              School budget nd plns.            Supervisors        Alialy         Training           Plan training
produce classroom teaching and            Observation.                      Supervisors                        Instructions
learning materiats.
Teachers have access to reading awd       Records observation.              Supervisors        Annually                          Distribution
reference material,                                                                                                              of  books and
materials.
Children have sufficient text-            Records observation.              Supervisor         Arnually       Education          Distribution
books to enabte active teacher                                                                                anagers-           of text-
learning.                                                                                                     District/          books.
province/
nationsl
Tutors work as a ter  to plan and         Course outlines                   Head of            Each           National           Ptan tutors
conduct training progras for              (Observation of training)         Primry              training      Training
teachers in active learning                                                 Education Unit                    Unit.
aproaches.                                                                  (Kasi Dlkdas)
0



*50-6(0) DOE INDOPUIN.A7:MSG(2):11-O4-YI
INOICATORS OF
INIERVENTIOIS                   ACHIEVEMENT                                HON                     SBY UHO            VNE         FOR WhO              USE
In-service traim.gg for       Tutors follow up training by work-       Reports of school visits        Supervisor        Each term      District in-     Plan teacher
tutors and professional       ing with perticipants in their            nd teachers meetings.          Principal                        service cowr-    in-service
developeent through ac-       classroms and at teachers groups                                                                          dinating
tivities at teachers          to develop teaching ideas.               Interviews with tewchers,                                        group. Na-        Plan tutors'
groups and resource cen-                                               principals.                                                      tianaI Train-    training
ters.                                                                                                                                   ing Unit.
Tutors prepare m_terials for use In    Collection of m_terials          Supervisor         Anmuilly         *              Pltn tutors'
training  nd for exteimion work in      produced and used.                                                                 trainino
classroom and teachers group as
follow up to training.
Tutors use feedbeck from school         Tutors diaries Question-        Supervisor         Each                            Plan tutors'
visits and teachers' meetings to        naire.                          Kesi Dikdas        training                        training
plan apW opriate training.
In-service training for       Supervisors visit schools regularly    Supervisors reports               Kasi oikdas       9iamual-       Kandap Kmnit    Set goats for
school supervisors            to iork with principats and staff.                                       Kakancm _y                                         district
to advise and monitor the implemen-     Ouestionsaire                                                                      schools
tation of active teaching  nd                                                                            National Unit
learning methods.                                                                                                          Plan suiper-
visors pro-
fessionat
developepnt
nd training.
Supervisors identify training re-       Supervisors  work progrem       Sakancesm          SI-asusl-    Kandep             Allocate re-
quire_nts of teachers.                                                                     ty                              soaces for
principals and advisory teachers,       Course outlines                                                                    schools -
set realistic training goats  nd                                                                                           training  nd
cnitor the iasut of training.          Ouestionncire                                                                      _teriels.
Supervisors coo,dinate plaming  nd      Amutl plans of teachers,        Kasi Dikdas        Aunelly       District/         Dissmeina-
conduct of regular meetinos of          read teachers groups                                             Provintial        tion of pro-
teachers' groups, principats'                                                                            hnsqers           fessional
groups  nd tutors' progrm.              Records of metings                                                                 support mod-
OF
0



*50:6(0) DOME INDCOPuN.AY:NSG(2):11-04-91
INDICATIRS OF
INTERVENTIONS                    ACHIEVEYENT                                 HOW                        By WmE            WNES        FOR WNC               USE
in-service training for        Advisory teachers work with teach-        Interview, principal,            Supervisor         2 x term       Training           Plan trainins
advisory teachers and          ers in thelr ean school to                teachers                                                            Tems Dis-         for adviswry
professioral support           strengthn use of active teaching-                                                                             trict             teachers
from tutors and super-         leaming nethods in their own sdb-
visors through resource        ject area.
centers
activities.
Advisory teachers corndct teachers'    Record of meetings. Obser-          Tutors             2 x term                         Plan training
group  using a variety of *ethods         vation                                                                               for advisory
and m_terials,                                                                                                                 teacber
In-service training for        District rad sub-district inaners         District ard sib-district        Kandep              Annuatly      Kinmit Dis-        Set realistic
education managers in          set goals for implementing active         anmials Plans.                                                      trictISab-        targets and
pwsning for quality            teaching-learning and quality i.-                                                                            District UNar      provide re-
irirovement and estab-         provements. pln                                                                                              ager               sources
lishing and active pro-        actions  nd monitor the iwpact            Reports of stpervisors and                                                                        I
fessional support sys-         through a variety of means.               tutors.                                                                                           tn
teun .
Organize training for teachers.          Annus  training plan              io,.trict Ed.      Arbu lty       Provincial        Providing
principals and advisory teachers                                           Nanagers                          Education         instruetors
nd prograa  of coaunity partici-                                                                             MUnagers
pation.
Allocate resources to ftud in-ser-       Annuat training plan.             District Edu-      Amually        Previncial        Resource at-
vice training and                                                          cation Uanrg-                      nd national      location for
professional support groups.                                               ers                               finance offi-    training
cer
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0Q
Io ~



-66-
ANNEX 8
Table A
INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Teacher Promotion Opportunities
Tentative Career Paths for Educational Personnel
H;AD) OF CURRICULUM           HED HFTEAHR
[   ~     ~~~~~                      ~UNIT  DEVELOPMENIT
ADMINISTRATION
ADMINISTRATION        SUPCERVSORA&SECAIT
ADMINISTRATION             4;
I    RIN CIPAL                 TUOR
(Small SchoQ
SUBJECT MATTER
SPECIALISTS
| TEACHERS   |             GRADE SeECIALITS
arp~sadsNw5303e



-67-                                 ANNEX 8
Tal B
PRIMARY EDUCATION OUALIIY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Teacher Promotion ORRortunities
Educational Personnel as of July 1988 L
Salary              Primary Teachers       Principals         Supervisors
Category
IIa                      333,179
IIb                      244,998
Izc                      223,772
IId                       94,817
IIIa                      43,178                35,870             1,476
IIIb                      16,820                18,522             1,846
IIIc                                             6,160             1,790
Total                 956.764                60.552             5.112
Source:  Basic Education Study, Annex Table 13.
La Not including "volunteer" teachers awaiting civil service appointment.



#i50-6(9) DOVE FRIMEDUC.AN8 DW:JP(2):02-06-92
-68-                                   ANNEX
Table C
INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION OUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Teacher Promotion O9Dortunities
Educational Personnel by Age Structure (-July 1988)
Staff level                                    -- Age GrouDs
and function               <21      21-30     31-40      41-50     >50        Total
Kindergarten Teachers    1,085    18,740       4,998      1,298      301       26,422
Primary Teachers          2,077   456,031   326,290   132,023   40,343        956,764
Primary Principals            1        633     8,604    25,531   25,783        60,552
Primary Supervisors           0         13       356      1,987    2,756        5,112
SMTP Teachers               143   104,332    56,992    29,041   10,648        201,156
SMTA Teachers                21    44,839    34,362    15,821    7,837        102,880
SMTA Principals               -         12        323     1,039    1,521        2,895
Secondary Supervisors          -        13         29       137       463          642
Total Primary and
Secondary School Staff   3.327   624.613   431.954   206.877   89.652   1.356.423
Source: Tabulation provided by BAKN.



#50_4(9) DhUDtJ.*8             JirJ1Ml08-2S-91
13DMT EDUCATION OlLLTT I19OV0W   PROJET
Teacber Promotion Osportunities
Civi Service S4axirle  by Grad ad ltb  of Serice as of July 1988
(in cuzrren ujila.pe aoora
Years of
serwice                 Ia          7Ib         lIc         lid          IIlc        IlIb        ItUc        Ild         Iva         TVb         Wc          lTd         IV*
0                55,000             -           _            -         81,000      84,400      87,600      90,800      93,200      96,700     104,500     110,400     116,800
1                58,200
2                      -            _                        -         88,500      92,400      96,200      99,900     103,S00     109,800      116,00     122.400     129.200
3                63,600        66,900      70,100       73,600              -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
4                      -            -           -            -         96,000     s30,400     104,700     109.000     114.400     120,800     127,500     134,300     143,600
5                69.100        72,800      76,600       80,500              -           -           -           -                       -           -           -           -
6                     -             -                        -        103,500     108,400     113,300     118,200     125,000     132,000     139,000     146.200     154,600
7                74,600        78,800      83,000       87,500              -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
8                      -            -           -            -        111,000     116,40t    121,800      127,300     135,600     142,900     150,400     158,100     166,400
9                80,000        84,800      89,500       94,400              -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
10                     -            -           -             -       118,500     124,400     130,400     136,400     146,200     153,900     161,900     170,100      178,800
11                85,500       90,700      95,900       101,400             -           -           -           -                       -           -           -           -
12                     -            -           -             -       128,000     132,400     138,900     145,300     156,800     165,000     173,400     182,000      191,200            0
13                91,000       96,700     102,400       108,400             -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
14                     -            -           -             -       133,500     140,400     147,500     154,600     167,400     176,000     184,900     193,900     203,600
15               96,4000      102,600     108,800       115.300             -                       -           -           -           -           -           -           -
16                     -            -           -             -       141,000     143,400     156,000     163,800     178,000     187,100     196,300     205,800     216,000
17               101,900      108,500     115,300       122,300             -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
18                     -            -           -             -       142,500     158,400     161,600     172,900     183,600     198,100     207,800     217.800     235,400
19               107,300      114,600    121,800        129,200             -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
20                            -           -            -             -                  -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
21               112,700      120,600    126,200        128,200       164,800     168,400     171,400     186,800     204,500     214,700     225,000     235,600     247,000
22                                               -            -           -            -            -           -           -                 -           -
23                     -            -           -             -             -           -           -           -           -           -           _           _           _
24               120,800      129,500    137,900        146,800       172,000     180,400     190,300     200,200     220,400     231.200     242,300     253,500     265,600
25                     -            -           -             -
26                     -            -           -             -
27                     -       138,400    147,600       157,000
Sources lasic Educatic  Stud,, A-ex  Tabe  12.
1'D1



-70-
Page 1 of 6
INDONESIA
PRINARY EDUCATION OUALITY IpMLOVEMHNT PROJECT
Primary Books, Educational Materials and Related Egui_:ent:
Proposed Guidelines
1.        Provincial orovision of educational materXial  and equipuent to
Learning Resource Centers. SD INTI (central school) and SD IMBAS (satellite
schools) in nine clusters in each of six provinces. PEQIP provides for the
introduction of SPP/CBSA teaching-learning methods in six provinces - Aceh,
West Sumatra, Yogyakarta, Bali, North Sulawesi, and East Nusa Tenggara. In
each of these provinces a total of nine clusters of SD schools would be
supplied with educational materials and equipment. Each cluster consists of
one SD INTI and an average of seven SD IMBAS. Specific materials and equip-
ment to be used by all schools on a shared basis would generally be housed in
the SD INTI in each cluster. Draft list of items (to be bought locally, where
appropriate):
Curriculum guides for classes I-VI
Teachers' guides for core subjects
Supplementary teachers' guides
Core textbooks
Supplementary textbooks
Library books
Reference books
Dictionaries of Bahasa Indonesia
CBSA manuals
Encyclopedias
Teaching aids for: handicrafts, art, sport, music, religion, Indonesian
history and for the five core subjects
Overhead projectors and consumables
TV sets
Video cassette recorders and software
Radio cassette recorders and software
Slide projectors and consumables
Cameras and consusables
Generators and consumables
Cupboards
Office furniture
Typewriters and consumables
Stencil mimeograph machines and consumables
Data boards
12 Digit calculators
Sound systems
Bookshelves
Mobile library boxes



-71-
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 6
Computers, printers and consumables
Four wheel vehicles
Two wheel vehicles.
All purchases should be coordinated with purchases at national level to ensure
compatibility and to avoid duplication.
2.        National orovision of education Materials and equipment to Learning
Resource Centers. SD INTI and SD IMBAS. Draft list of items (to be bought at
center, where appropriate):
Sets of Encyclopedia Indonesia
Encyclopedias of Flora and Fauna
Dictionaries of Bahasa Indonesia
Books in 45 years of Indonesian Independence
Guidebooks on planning and budgeting for Primary Schools I/
Books on the implementation of SPP/CBSA
Audiovisual software to support teachers and supervisors in teaching the
five core subjects
Guidebooks for school clusters L/
Guidebooks for teachers' workshops and groups for other school
personnel.
All purchases should be coordinated with provincial purchases in order to
ensure that there is comratibility and no duplication.
3.        Development of local skills in appraisal and buying of educational
materials and eaui2ment and in establishing optimum levels of 2rovision for
schools practicine SPP/CBSA teaching-learning methods. It is proposed that
selected staff from the provincial and district education offices would attend
a four day workshop in Jakarta to enable them to appraise all available
teaching materials and to recommend appropriate materials to be used in their
provinces to be used in particular learning situations. Staff from provincial
and district education offices would also receive advice from the central
project management to help them both in appraisal and in establishing optimum
levels of provision. As part of the policy research component of PEQIP a
research study is planned which will assess minimum resource requirements of
primary schools for the implementation of CBSA. Topics to be tackled include
books, teaching and learning materials and essential facilities. The policy
researchers would work in collaboration with staff from the provincial and
district education offices of at least two of the six PEQIP provinces. It is
intended that provincial, district and school level personnel in each province
should become progressively more responsible for deciding what educational
materials and equipment to purchase and use. Those staff who have received
training would form the nucleus of a group of specialists who would be able to
.1/ New titles that would have to be written, produced and distributed in the
context of PEQIP.



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 6
-72-
take on this responsibility.  They would need to consult with local special-
ists such as librarians, supervisors, principals anid teachers and others
involved in the preparation, distribution and use of educational materials.
4.        A training workshop for staff from all provingial education offices
to enable thom to apRraise all available teaching mAterials And to recomen
aRprO2riate materials to be used in their provinces in pargicu ar learnin
situatLina. This workshop would last for four days and would have 81 partici-
pants consisting of 3 from each of the 27 provinces and 15 from project staff
and staff of the Directorate of Primary Education. Principal instructors
would be professionals employed by the DGPSE and the Libraries Directorate.
Additional instructors would be invited from the Curriculum and Book Centers
and from primary textbook and library book publishers.
5.        Trainine courses in key areas of primary book development.  The
Directorate of Primary Education and the Indonesian Center for the Graphic
Arts (Pusat Grafika Indonesia - (Pusgrafin))in conjunction with the National
Book Development Advisory Council (Badan Pertimbangan Pengembangan Buku
Nasional (BPPBN)) and the Indonesian Publishers' Association (Ikatan Penerbit
Indonesia (IKAPI)) has prepared a program of twelve courses which are aimed at
raising the skill levels of staff employed by publishers of primary school
materials. These staff are employed both in public and private sector
publishing houses. Project management would decide who would be the main
participants. It is advisable that primary teachers and other key primary
education personnel participate alongside professional publishers in order to
upgrade the skills of both groups. The courses may also be open to those
individuals with appropriate qualifications and aptitudes who are seeking to
be employed in primary educational publishing.  The courses for illustration
and design, authorship and translation would be open to individuals who could
show good supporting materials that satisfy the course ctganizers, The
Project Director may wish to consider delegating the organization of the
program of courses to Pusgrafin in collaboration with IKAPI and BPPBN within
the context of PEQIP. The proposed course topics are as follows: editorial;
illustration and design; production; publishing management; sales, marketing,
promotion and distribution; authorship; and translation. It is proposed that
the courses on authorship and translation would be held once only and all
other courses would be held twice. Ten courses would be held in Jakarta and
one each would be held in Medan (North Sumatra) and Ujung Pandang (South
Sulawesi). Training would be undertaken by Pusgrafin staff members,
Indonesian publisher specialists in primary education materials and by
overseas specialists.
6.        Training courses in logal Materials oroduction.  The primary
objective of these courses would be to raise the skill levels of principals,
teachers, supervisors and provincial and district education staff in the
,)reparation of educational materials. It is intended that a nucleus of such
skilled personnel would eventually be built up in every province to produce
locally specific educational materials. Emphasis will be placed on the
production of materials for particular groups, such as principals and supervi-
sors, for whom no specific materials are available at present. It is expected
that this program would also help to identify authors and illustrators able to



-73-
6NEX 9
Page 4 of 6
write and illustrate educational materials which could be published commer-
cially for national use. The courses would be targeted on the six provinces
that are to introduce SPP/CBSA teaching/learning methods. It i.. proposed that
three courses would be held in three different centers. Each course would
bring together personnel from two of the six provinces and would be held in
one of those two provinces. Places on the courses would be offered first to
personnel from the nine designated school clusters in eacii province. If space
permitted, places would then be offered to other personnel from tle province.
The courses would include instruction in authorship, illustration and in the
actual production of learning materials. Wherever possible the equipment
supplied in the context of PEQIP to SD INTI and SD IMBAS for materials
production would be used to produce course materials, Courses would be run by
overseas and local specialists in materials production.
7.        Publication of a Thrice-Yearly BIlletin.  The aim would be to raise
the general level of awareness of primary educationists throughout Indonesia
about educational materials available from government sources and publishers.
It is proposed that the Libraries Directorate would publish and distribute the
bulletin on behalf of the project and would work in cooperation with IKAPI.
Each issue of the bulletin would have eight pages and would be of tabloid
newspaper format (approximately 30 centimeters wide by 40 centimeters high).
It is proposed that each issue would have at least four full color pages and
the remaining pages in two colors. The bulletin will be lively, attractive
and informative. The Libraries Directorate would use professional authors,
illustrators and editors in its prod;ction. As well as containing information
on specific books and educational materials, the bulletin would show primary
teachers and children how to make the best use of printed educational mate-i-
als, would offer advice to those who run primary school libraries and, if
space permits, it would include general interest articles and news for
teachers and children. It is proposed that the Libraries Directorate would
distribute copies to all primary schools education offices, libraries,
bookstores and other appropriate individuals and organizations. One issue
would be published in the first year of the project and three issues would be
published inl the second and third years. The total print run of each issue
would be 175,000 copies.
8.        Primary School Libraries.  It is proposed that rroject management
would undertake these activities with the assistance of foreign and local
consultants early in the project. An examination of the current arrangements
for stocking and running primary school librarlea would be undertaken with
particular attention to at least two of the six 3PP/CBSA pro"inces.  The views
of the following people would be taken into ancount:  librarians, both in
schools and in provincial libraries, the staff of the DGPSE, booksellers,
authors and illustrators and library staff trainers. Project staff would
coordinate and participate in these researches and would carry out specific
surveys of primary school library usage under controlled condl.ti'ns. A report
would be written on the state of primary school libraries including costed
recommendations book collection upgrading, distribution, mana.geunt and use.
9.        Distribution of Books and Materials.  The project would examine the
prevailing methods of distribution used by the Book Center for government-



-74-
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 6
published free textbooks and 'overprints, as well as those used by private
sector publishers and wholesalers. Particular attention would be paid to the
network of warehouses and depots constructed under the Bank-assisted integrat-
ed Textbook Project (Loan 2102). If appropriate, the project would also look
for ideas at distribution and marketing networks of both public and private
sector which handle items other than books (e.g., religious materials). At
least one province with particularly awkward communications would be studied.
Particular attention should be given to the costs of distribution. The final
report would describe current arrangements for the distribution of primary
educational books and materials and would recommend changes that could be made
in the future to improve targeting, reliability and cost-efficiency.
10.       Linkages with other Proiect Activities.  (a) SPP/CBSA.  PEQIP would
finance educational materials supplies to all primary schools in nine clusters
in each of the six SPP/CBSA provinces. Some of the printed educational
materials are specifically designed for SPP/CBSA teaching-learning methods,
and much of the reproduction equipment plays an important part in its effec-
tive dissemination. However, SPP/CBSA requires training materials to guide
trainers of trainers, materials for trainers to use in training and materials
for trainees to use.  None of these cur-ently exist.  There would also be a
need within SPP/CBSA for teachers, subject advisers and tutors in particular
to receive training in how to make best use of the educational equipment that
is provided. When SD INTI are to be used as Learning Resource Centers and
when one or more teachers are seconded to run the centers, they should receive
specialized training, e.g., in how to operate overhead projectors, video
cassette recorders, slide projectors and stencil mimeograph machines.
Training would be 2rovided in local materials production for personnel from
the nine clusters in each of the six SPP/CBSA provinces. It is recommended
that priority in both the training and in use of the equipment should be given
to writing and producing those SPP/CBSA books that do not at present exist.
Teacher training for the introduction of SPP/CBSA teaching/learning methods
would need to include instruction on how teachers could make best use of
textbooks and teachers' guides.
(b) Enhancing Promotional 02Rortunities for Primary TeacheE. Within
the new Fl;nccional Position System and related credit point procedures for
primary school teachers, it is proposed that credit points should be earned by
teachers who receive training in librarianship and by teachers who produce
their own, good teaching materials. It is recommended that project management
should examine other ways in which teachers could earn credit points in
activities related to learning materials.
(c) Providing Special Assistance for Under-served Schools. Training of
trainers that is to take place at center will include instruction on:
(i) levels of provision of textbooks and other learning materials; (ii) evalu-
atioin of available materials; and (iii) purchasing and distributing textbooks
and learning materials. It is important that this training should be coordi-
nated with similar training that would be held in the context of Strengthening
Learning Materials Production and Distribution. In training the principals of
under-served schools in the use of SAFs the trainers should include informa-
tion on the availability, quality and cost of printed educational materials



-75-
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 6
and on suitable levels of provision. Printed edur.ational materials need to be
included in the list of items on which the SAFs can be spent. Where the SAFs
would be spent on books and other low cost educational materials it may make
sense to bulk-buy. If each school principal has to negotiate to buy specific
books and educational materials there is a risk that unit costs will be
substantially higher than if prices were to be negotiated at least at provin-
cial level. The principals would still have freedom of choice from the
recommended list but may get more for the money.
(d)  Needs Assessment Surveys. Under-served Schools and School Oualitv
Standards. Provision has been made for training in books and materials at
center for staff from the education offices of six provinces. Additionally
staff from all the provincial and district education offices would receive
advice from the central project management specialists on learning materials
that would help them both in evaluation and in establishing optimum levels of
provision. This training needs to be linked to the proposed study to assess
minimum resource requirements of primary schools for the implementation of
SPP/CBSA. Books and materials are important resources which "under-served"
schools, in particular, lack. Those who undertake the needs-assessments
should work in collaboration with staff from the provincial education offices.
initially in two of the six SPP/CBSA provinces.
(e) Other Printed Materials. It should be noted that the following
materials and publications are proposed to be supplied or developed under the
CPMU: (i) Project Oversight and Implementation Materials; (ii) Project
Preparation Guidelines; (iii) Formative and Summative Evaluation Reports; (iv)
Policy Research Reports (possibly to be incorporated in the Books and
Materials Bulletin or in the Information, Education and Communications (IEC)
suocomponent; and IEC news and reports. It is proposed that the central
project staff wou'ld manage these activities.



-76-
FS.X LO
INDONESI
PRIMARY EDUCATION OUALITY IMPROEMET PRgJECT
The Compensatorv SOecial Assistance Funds (SAFs)
to Under-Served Schools
Total SAFs
Assumed rate of growth of GNP           as a perce.lt of expected increase
and APBN budget a                  in APBN budget for Primary Education L
GFY199O/91-1991/92   GFY1993/94-1994/95
(1)         6X                                 11.2                   10.0
(2)         7X                                  9.7                     8.4
(3)         8X                                  8.5                     7.2
La   Base year is GFY 1990/91.  The APBN budget for primary education is Rp
',209.7 billion.
Lk The total annual budget for the compensatory SAPs is Rp 21.9 billion,
assuming the bottom ten percent of under-served schools nationally were
provided with funds.



-77-                         ANAEX jO
Table B
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
PRIMARY FlUCATION OUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECA
hL    x Items Eliaible for SBPP Funding
I.    E,ecution of school lessons:
Materials:
For conducting lessons - white and colored chalk, dusters,
cartons, ink water colors
For conducting tests   - HVS, lined and stencil paper
Equipment:
T-xt books              - teachers' guides
Lesson                  - wooden rulers (I m), wooden triangles
(2 kinds), wnoden compases
Demonstration           - thermometers, globes, wall maps
Culture                 - guitars, harmonicas
Skills                  - handicraft and agriculture equipment
_I.   School administration:
Materials:
Office                  - HVS, lined and stencl'. paper,
envelopes, pencils, erasers, writing,
pit and stamp ink, glue, folio
holders, Snelheekter and order maps,
paper clips, staplers, staple
openers, rope, stamps, stamp
cushions, perforators, scissors
Health and cleanliness - creoline, first aid, brooms, dustars,
table covers, napkins, plastic
buckets, mopping cloths
Administration books   - pupils' scrrA, pupils' absenteeism,
teachers' absenteeism, guest, agenda,
teaching preparation, cash
III.  School maintenance                - nails, chalk/paint, saws, hammers,
ladders, maintenance work carried out
by others
IV.   School employas's welfare         - payment of welfare allowances to
school employees
V.    School sports                     - balls (volley, pingpong etc.), nets,
rackete, paddles, shuttlecocks,
prizes
VI.   Education report books            - materials for printing books,
delivery of report books to schools



-78-                           ANNEX 10
Table B
Page 2 of 2
VII. Conducting EBTA and procurement
of STTB:
Materials                     - HVS and stencil paper, stencil sheet,
stencil and pit ink, pens
- printing of STTB and DANEM
Activities                    - preparation of text, control,
correction, reporting, delivery of
STTB to schools
VIII. Supervision                        - aid for duty travel of inspectors for
conducting classroom supervision,
reporting supervislon results
IX.   Development of management and
reporting:
Materials                     ^ report format/forms
Activities                    - visits to the region/schools,
meetings, delivery of reports,
session allowances
X.    Data collecting activities:       - delivery of format/forms, r-cording,
processing and presentation of data
Source: Ministry of Finance
Note: The term 'materials" means consumables, while "equipment" means goods
that can be used more than once.



-79-
ANNEX 10
TABLE C
INOgNESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SoecIal Assistance for Under-served Schools
Pro*osed Phasina of Pilot Scheme, gxoanuion and Dissemination
CFY               1992/93           1993/94                         1994/5            f/9            1996,/97
Provinces                I                II                             III              IV               V
Pitot
2 provinces (NTT    Study ar-d start-   Principals'       Review of      Follow-w*
And W. Sumatra)      up activities La   Training            Pitot        training
SAF delivery                   SAf delivery   SAF delivery   SAF delivery
. ~      ~_             _ _    _    _    _       ___        _   _    _   _       01
Ex2oasion
4 provinces                              Preparatory                     Principals'    Follow-up
(Aceh, Bali,                             studies  nd                     training        training
N. Sulawesi,                             start-up
Yogjakarta)                              activities                      SAF delivery   SAf delivery   SAF delivery
Dissemination
Up to 6 provinces                                                        Preparatory    Principals'    Follow-up
(ranked as                                                               studies and    training         training
poorest                                                                  start-up
nationally)    _                                                         activities      SAF deliv  ry   SAF delivery
Note LI Inctudes identification and selection of schools, development of training plan and materials, detailed
guidelines for SAF channeling, monitoring and supervision, training of trainers, etc.



-80-
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
List of Classroom. Subsector Policy and Evaluation Studies
1.   SPP/CBSA Formative Activities
Teacher-based feedback to enhance SPP/CBSA implementation and development
of workable models in varied contexts (para. 3.7).
2.   Enhancing Promotion ODoortunities for Primary Teachers
To provide recommendations for introducing better promotion opportunities
for primary teachers (para. 3.8).
3.   Primary School Book Policy Development
To address issues of book quality, variety, availability and
affordability (para. 3.11).
4.   Provision of S2ecial Assistance Funds to Under-served Schools
(i)   Study on criteria, indicators of educational disadvantage,
identification and selection of under-served schools and training
needs assessments and plan for training the schools, principals in
resource management (para. 3.13);
(ii) Study to work out guidelines on channeling Special Assistance Funds
to principals of under-served schools; monitoring and supervision
of the delivery and se of funds (para. 3.14).
5.   Strengthening Provincial Administrative Suggort
To prepare guidelines defining specific functional and operational
responsibilities for primary education for MOEC and DINAS P&K at
provincial and district levels and propose steps toward better
coordinated administrative support for primary school quality improvement
(para. 3.17).
6.   Evaluation Studies and PreMaration of Future Programs and Proiects
(RaraL 3.19)
To provide analyses and final reports to project management for
retrospective review and policy formulation on:



-81-
ANNEX 1;
Page 2 of 3
(i)     the impact of SPP/CBSA on school quality improvement (para. 3.6);
(ii)    the effect of SAFs to under-served schools on the management and
funding of school quality improvement programs (para. 3.12-3.15);
(iii)   Research design and base-line data requirements for assessing
over time the impact of policy interventions (i.e. SPP/CBSA and
SAFs) on indicators of education quality improvement;
(iv)    Introduction of provincial surveys to assess the quality inputs
needed by primary schools (para. 3.7, 3.9, 3.18).



PRIKARY ECTION WAULITY INt0VERIT PROJECT
Studfes Program bv Comonent nd Year
(Stfot monts) 11
CoaPOnInt                         WGI FY  92/93   93/94    94/95 '95/96          96/97   Total      9V93    93/94                           96/9W     Total
l2r@owine teachirglearning
Teidbr professonal
daeIqmnlt program                           42       58       58        36       24    218           10        10       10        10         6        46
TeAdr prowtlon opprtunitis                     6        6        6        6         0      24           2         4        4         -                  10
D tlopqant wid s'upp' of books
wid duatlnmt  teralts                       12       15       12        12        0      51          4          8 a               8          4        32
Subtotat
SPecial assistane for
idsr-serwd Schools (En)                     28       31       27       24        12    122           6          6        4         2         2        20        I
Subtotal                                                                             iZI
Ehance  s     nt of quality
faxvmut:
Provinelt Idanlstratwvs uport                  6        6        6         6        0      24           2         2        3         2          2        11
Iaprow finclsl plaingn                         4        6        6        6         6      28          2          2        2         2         2        10
Denlop Instatutional
capcty                                       6        8        8        8         0      30          6          6        8         7         2        29
Sutotat I l 
Coordin torm                                   6       10       12        12       12      52           6         6        6         7          7       32
Total
LA  Include  tratl snuahstanc  costs etc..
O F-



INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION WUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program by Component and Year
(Staff Months) La a
Component                                GOI FY    92/93       93/94       94/95      95/96       96/97        Total
Improving Teaching-
Learning Processes
Teacher Professional                               18         22          22          26          24         112      1
Development Program
Developmer.t and Supply of                          3          6          3            2           0          14
Books and Educational
Materials
Special Assistance for Under-served
Schools                                                2          6          6            o           6          26
Enhance Management of Ouality
Imorovement
Provincial Administrative                           2          2          3           2            0          9
Support
Project Management and Administrative                  8         12         12           12           8          52
Coordination
Total        213
La  International.
/b Includes travel, subsistence costs etc..



INDONESIA
PRI"ARY EDUCATION QUALITY IZPaOVENENT PROJECT
Fellowship and Trainin Proqrsm
(*Xcluding T-schFO  or-F hbps.  S_minrS ad Grcp Disu1Ons)
Cg _nent                                           tiD FY      sz/sa    93          L ca9l  *ers;f  9e /97      Tete        SZ7S3    93/S4    Oversee. J        "Serl        Total
Nmtrovine I            r       rocss
National  0r1ram
Suprrva.rer trlainig                                        36        3t       36              -           10-            -
Education mnegers trainntg                                  48        48       48                  -       144
Tutors training                                             72       72        72         -        -       21-                     -   -          -        -              -
Comarative study trinting visits (2 .)                       -         -        -         -        -         -            5         5        5        6        S         25
Short corsoes (3  )                                                    -        -                            -            3        3         3                 3i
fellweahips (2 years)                                                                     -                               I         I        I         1       1          5
Prow Inc  to provirce study visits (I *)                    12        12       12        12       12        *0            -         -        -         -       -          -
Provincial proproer
(int    b o  tb S C654 prev1rces}
uw feery t-achbere                                                    36       36                           72
T.t*ro pravidtng trainirg                                   24       24        24         -        -        72
Educatioeal mat-rteil
(la1i*cn of the J CA provicese):
Sb rt courses (a3  )                                                2         4         4        -        10            -        -         -        -        -          -
Fellowships (1 year)                                       _                  -         -                  -4
Materti eewelpment-                                                    2        2         2        -         6-                     -        -         -       -          -
Short coursest (3 a)2                                                         2         2 
Followships (I year)                                       _         -        -         - _      _         _                     2         2        -        -          4
Boaks need .esa.sam nts-short coursee  (3 )                -        2         4         4        -        10            -         -        -        -        -          -
Teacher prmotion: 
Short couree(3                                             - a                4         4        -        12            2        2         2        -        -          *
C~e #retive study traiing visits (2 *)                       -         -        -         -        -         -            -         *        4        4        -         12             O
Subtotal                                                                                           721                                                            7I
Special assistance for undqr-servod schools
Nations) staff:
Short cowrses (3 )                                           6        12       24        30      1i         g0            2         2        2         -       -          6
Training of traiters                                        20       40        60         -        -       120            -                  -         -       -
Provincial staff-shert --areas (3 a)                            4        12       24        24       20        84            -         -             -
Subtotal
iDDnc- _ r-eant of sue liSv itIrovernt
finnecial plea"ing-short courses (3 a)                          -         -         -        -         -        -            -         S        6         -       -         12
Dewelop inetitutienl cepcity5
Co_perative study tre nine visits (2 a)                                j        j         j        ;        35            7         t       ,5                 5         423
Shert courses (3 a)                                                                                                       2       7 3    21  2         3       3         12
Follamhbips (I  er)                                          -         -        -         -        -         -12
Strrent rhoni  provincial aidtnistretien
TV and *  est SMOmtra):                                                                                                            4         4
Veilsahips (6 )                                              -         -        -         -         -        --                              4-                -
Shert coureee moanaemet triaiag (3 .)                        -         *        -         *        -        16            -         -        -         -       -          -
Subtotal                                                                                            au
ProJect mm_  tent *ad *dtnietretiot
National Level:                                                                                                                                 3         3       3
Short courses  3 *)                                          _3                                                                     3        3         3       3         i5
Co_perative study training visits (2*)                       -         -         -        -         -        -            3         3        33
Provincial level in each of the 64
SPP/CSSA pr.viaces:2                                                                                                                22 
Short courses (3m)                                           22                                                           2         2        2 2                 20
Comeprativ  study trarning  isita (2 a)                      -         -        -         -         -        -            2         22
District level:                                                 2         2        2         2        2        I0                      I        I
short courses (3ma)                                         22         2        2         2        2        10
Comparstive study trainin  vsits (2 a)                       -         2        j         i        i        I             -         2        2         2       2         10
SU-district level-short courses (2 m)                           2         2        2         2        2        10            -         ---                -       -          -
Svbt.tel                                                                                             at a                                                                      M
3                                                                           IQ



-85-
&NNEX 13
INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION OUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Expenditure by Year and Purpose
Total cost
Baseline costs (R2 billion)         Rp        US$
GOI FY  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  billion  million
Improving teaching-learning
processes:
Teacher professional
development program         8.5   12.5    9.0    2.9   2.2        35.1   18.0
Teacher promotion oppor-
tunities                    0.1    0.5    0.4    0.3   0.0         1.3    0.6
Development and supply of
books and educational
materials                   0.7    6.4    3.7    1.6   1.1        13.5    6.9
Subtotal                    0.6    2.1    4.1    71   i.1        19.0    9.8
Special assistance for
under-served schools            0 6    2j1    41    7.1   l 1         19.0    9.8
Enhance management of quality
improvement:
Provincial administra-
tive support                0.2    0.4    0.4    0.2   0.1         1.3    0.6
Improve financial planning  0.2    0.4    0.4    0.1   0.1           1.2    0.6
Develop institutional
capacity                    0.8    1.2    1.4    1.4   0.6         5.4    2.8
Subtotal                             2 L.   22    1 7   Q7   8      7 9    4.0
Project management and
administration                  30    3 2    3 3    2.6   2,3          14.4    7.4
Baseline cost                 .1J.    26.7   22.,7   1.2  1J.5      91.2   46.7
Contingencies:
Physical                      0.7    1.8    1.3    0.9   0.6          5.3    2.7
Price increase                0.4    2.0    2.7    2.0   1.7          8.8    4.5
Subtotal                              3 8    4 0    2.9   L_3    14.1    7.2
Total project cost           15.2   30.5   26.7   19.1  13.8    105.3   53.9
Foreign exchange                   5.8   17.3   11.8    7.2   5.6        47.7



P2INAEY EDUCA? 10  OULTV IwUOvOfN  PUOECT
Tech" _CO.
terfaI4  Studios               ~~~Feltmo Ishi 1aaed training
Egulinant sa~ 7ducet1ensl 1terisls       Studiettse tersees    Loclrtera-1i 1 S ocal                          SAF to
tional       _ant and                               ants      fellow.    felle        of h,    t-cher      under-served   Oeerst1              Total
intertns      c_vters        Vehicles              Srvices       ships      ships     ftaf      warkshsps       schels        casts     H EIe
teacelwr pref-esioenl
develment progrem             2.260          3.730          1.230     3.610       3.150       1.570        90      3.020      13.390             -        2.330        35.130
Techor premot ion
.ppertuatles                                     -              -       320           0         430        20         40           -             -          4t0         1.300        00
Oeuelopment and supply
of bes and  duce-
ftinat materiels              7.72G             S0              _       610         390       3.040       300      1.020           -             -          220        13.430      6.670
Subtotal                   L                            JJ 1   4.540             5jt                   400      4490       13.LJ              .z   *   Se          ! D         25 530
Special assistance
for under-served se1ls                                                    3730                    in        in       3 2            30        1                          IS 00        IE
Enhance managemant ef
quality improvameat:
Provitncial adminestrative
support                          -                                     540        2S0          300        30         60                                     M C        1.260        GU0
Improve flanctsl planning         40              -                      440           0         390         -         20                                    J " 350     1.240        640      W
Ot
Davelop  istitutional capacity    10                       -              790           0       2.40         70                     -             -           90         5. 360     2.740
Subtotal                      So                                   1AU 770                 L0          10 iD                                           I.4          7E         t4  2
Project Managemant entd
admnisti slo.n                    36           1L30             510    1670        J4          43090       4030                                             3 0         14e450       7 400
$as*line cost             10 3S0         Ii-me           1.740     LD         L000       13Z 9 4SO   1340                  132           120  1eEE4 11003*1E2t i 
,ti ngencies:
Physicel                        1.030            S10            140       414         296         670        SO         470        "0            710           in         5.340      2.740
Price incroase                  1.090            SOO            120       04          S4        1.410       190       1.320      1.210             -         1.290        6.760      4.430
Subtotel                   2Jf 12010                      liD      14M                     L t20                1Z 7S0D       20 E12                   LM UOU  00               7L20
Total,tro.jact cast:1030
(Rp  ilion)               12,S10          I0            3a2 00        D ?9*SlO            IS570     1, 12 1130           ISED           14 f2                    IOS 330
.(US1$  000)               L     410      30 iML02                 4.14       3.574        7Z         lI        5.700      7.730          7.40         4.750                   53.330
It 1
w 



-87-                               AOF-X 14
INDONCSIA
PRIIARY EDUCATION OUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
EstiMated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursement&
Amount per        Cumulative       Disbursement profile &L
IBRD fiscal year       semester       Amount           X                Z
and semester            --- (US$ million) --
1                       1.5k!           1.5           4                1
2                        1.0            2.5           7                5
1994
1                       1.4             3.9          11                6
2                        2.8            6.7          18               17
1                        3.4           i. 1          27               21
2                        4.3           14.4          39                32
i2m
1                        5.2           19.6          53                42
2                        5.7           25.3          68                54
i997
1                        4.7           30.0          81                68
2                        3.9           33.9          92                74
1998
1                        2.5           36.4          98                81
2                        0.6           37.0         100                87
L Latest standard disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia
(06/91)
Xb Initial deposit



INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUAUTY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CahndarYear      199299                         1 1993          1994    1                1996              1 997            1998
GOIvr Flsm$          92093       r        4       rs                                                        OWN96r9'  9718
Improvfg tachIn      ng processes:
Teacher prohssinal deveopmet program:
Training of supervisors                                                                           a
TraWing ot educatbiol managws
Training of tutors
Teachers workshops
Prndpals works_ops
Advisory tachdA workshops
Prcurement of office equipment, learning
resource center equipmert and teaching aids
Technical assstnce
Fellowships and training:
Overseas faklwshIps                                                                                                                                                 c
Comparative study tranng visitslshort courses.
overseas and loca
Tacher promoton oppoftnites:
National seminars to promote
Technical assistance                         _   _
Short courses, overseas & local                               _   _  _                  - _   _   _
Development ardsupply of books and educatonal
matedals.
Procuirement of books
Book development courses
Materals producion workshops                                  _   _          +      _   _   _
Book needs assessmen workshops                                _   _   _             - _      _
Procurement asssance seminar
Technical assistance                          _   _   _   _
Fellowships and tralning:
Comparative study training visits overseas                   _        _    _          -
Short courses local                         _ _
Specil assistance for under-served schools:
Tralning of tralners
Tralning of prlncipals and prolect staff        _ = =                                           +-=_
/a: Lines Indicate years In which actvItes to take place.                                                                                               cak%w5105A  a.



m, ementalfon Sciedulle lcontlnued ,
Calendar Year        1992             1993             1994             1995             1996              1997             1998
GOI Fiscal Year      92)93             93194            94/95            95696            96W               97198
Upgrading training of pdncipals la                                                _   _                                          -
Provision of Specila Assistanc Fujnds              _                     - _                                                 -   -
Wokshop on ari  channeiing and monitodng
Technica assistance
Short courses overseas and local               _                     - _
Erhance management of quality improvement
Provincia administrativ suppolt
Technical assistance                         _   _
Fellowships and Wranig:
Overseas fellowships                                         =
Local raIning
Improve financial planning:
Reviews of provincal budgets                 =  .
Technical assstanice                                                                                                           -.
Shoh courses overseas                                                                   - _
Develop Insttutional capacity:
Prject lmplementaion workshops in six provinces                _
Training In evaluation                                         _
Dissemination of Information (IEC)
Technica assistnce- -- - - - -
Fellowships and training:
Overseas feflowships                                                                                     _
Short courseslcomparatve study tranihngv1sits/-
overseas
Short courses local
Project management and administration:
Procurement of equipment
Technical assistance            = _ = = _ _ _
Feflowshlps and training:
Short courses/comparative study training vlslt    _
overseas                                                                                                                                                         d
Short courses local                                                                  s
Complegtion date
Caosing date     y
/1a Unes indcate years In which actiItes to take piace.                                                                                                  w(OO5 



-90-
AENEE 16
Page 1 of 8
INDONES1I
EBJMLRY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Proiect Management
General
1.        The main features of the management structure are:
Central Level
(a) The MOEC Director General of Primary and Secondary Education will
have overall responsibility for the project and will chair an Inter-
Agency Steering Committee (ISC);
(b) The MOEC Director of Primary Education is member of the Steering
Committee and chairs the Technical Advisory Board (TAB);
(c) A full-time Project Director (PIMPRO) is responsible for managing
the implementation of the project and administration of the loan,
supported by a Central Proiect Management Unit (CPMU) with a
Secretary, a Treasurer and Specialist Assistants working full-time
on the project.
Provincial and District Level (SPP/CBSA provinces)
(a) The Governor will establish an Inter-Agency Provincial Coordinating
Committeg (IPCC) and serves ex-officio as its Head (Delindun ).
(b)  The Head of the MOEC Provincial Office and the Head of the Regional
Education Services (DINAS P&K) will act respectively as Chairman and
Vice-Chairman of the IPCC and will have overall responsibility of
the provincial project components.
(c)  A full-time Provincial Proiect Manager (PIMPRO) will be responsible
for managing the implementation of the provincial project components
with the assistance of a full-time Provincial Proiect Management
Unit (PPMU).
(d)  The Head of the District will establish an Inter-Agency District
Coordinating Committee (IDCC) and serves ex officio as its Head.
(e) The Head of the MOEC District Office and the Head of the District
Education Services will act respectively as Chairman and Vice-
Chairman of the IDCC and will have overal'l responsibility of the
district project components.
(f) A full-time District Project Manager will be responsible for
managing the impl.ementation of the district project components with
the assistance of a full-time District Project Management Unit



-91-
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 8
(DPHU). If experience warranted it, PIMPROs would also be appointed
to head bPMUs.
Sub-district Level
A full-time sub-district Implementation Officer acting on
instructions from the District Project Director will carry out
project activities at the Sub-district level.
Provincial Level (SAF provinces)
A full-time Provincial Proiect Manager will be responsible for
coordinating the management of the implementation of the SAF
component with the assistance of a small Provincial Under-served
Schgol Unit (PUSU) staffed with a limited number of trained
personnel from the MOEC Provincial Office and the Regional Education
Services Office.
Sub-district Level (SAF provinces)
A designated education official will act on the instructions of the
PUSU.
The proposed structure for the management of implementation is shown in Chart
3A and 3B.
Functions and ResRonsibilities
Inter-Agency Steering Committee
2.        The ISC has been established and currently comprises primarily
echelon 1 level authorities:
-    The Director General of Primary and Secondary Education (Chair).
-    Governors from the six SPP/CBSA provinces.
-    Senior Officials from BAPPENAS, MOF, MOHA (PUOD and BANGDA), MENPAN,
BAKN.
-    Six members of MOEC agencies, including the Director of Primary
Education.
The ISC will:
(a)  facilitate inter-agency consultation and coordination during project
implementation;
(b)  set policy guidelines for the project and make policy
recommendations to the Project Director on the basis of data and
experience gathered through the project;



-92-
Page 3 of 8
(c) review for approval overall plans for project implementation; and
(d) carry out periodic reviews and a mid-term review of the project.
The Technical Advisory Board
3.        A Technical Advisory Board will be established and chaired by the
MOEC Director of Primary Education.  The TAB wil bring together the senior
staff responsible for implementation, including the Project Director and the
CPMU Specialist Assistants, together with staff of the ministries and agencies
represented in the ISC, to coordinate project activities. It functions will
include:
(a) development, review and adjustment of guidelines and procedures in
order to ensure efficient project implementation;
(b) advice and recommendations to the Project Director on issues needing
attention;
(c) monitoring and evaluation of progress and quality of implementation;
and
(d) acting as Secretariat to the ISC.
The Proiect Director
4.        The Project Director supported by the CPMU Specialist Assistants
(para. 6), will be responsible for:
(a) preparation of annual implementation plans and overall budget;
(b) preparation of guidelines for administration of the project and
establishment of monitoring and evaluation procedures, including
preparation of periodic reports to the ISC, TAB and the Bank;
(c) cooperation with MOHA and other agencies on matters related to
project implementation, in particular co-administration and budget
coordination of the SAF component;
(d) coordination of central and provincial project activities and
provision of support to provincial and district project directors
involved in project administration;
(e) coordination of Specialist Assistant Unit activities with functional
activities of the respective sub-directorates within the Directorate
of Primary Education;
(f) procurement of all goods and services under ICB procedures,
expatriate and local consultancies and training services. This will
involve preparation of bidding documents, technical specifications,
evaluation of bids, contract awards, delivery and installation. For



-93-
ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 8
large consultancv packages this also entails preparation of terms of
reference, short liscings and requests for proposals;
(g) administration of overseas and local training fellowship programs
and consulting services;
(h) arranging centrally organized seminars, workshops and training
sessions;
(i) loan administration, including liaison with the Bank and maintenance
and supply of all records and reports as required under the Loar.
Agreement;
(j)  arranging for timely aanual audits of project accounts; and
(k) establishing linkages with parallel activities under the MOEC
includin. the existing Coordinating Forum for Primary Teacher
Recruitment and the Project Monitoring and Coordinating Committee
for the Bank assisted Second Secondary Education and Management
Project.
The Central Proiect Management Unit
5.        The CPHU was established on June 18, 1991 under MOEC decision letter
SK264/C/KEP/C/91. It is headed by the Project Director as PIMPRO and is
organized in three sub-units: (a) a Secretariat; (b) a Treasury; 1J1 and
(c) Specialist Assistants Unit. The functions of the sub-units will be:
Secretariat
(a) office administration;
(b) to provide administrative support to all CPMU staff;
(c) to maintain relevant records and project documents;
(d) to maintain inventory lists; and
(e) to prepare regular reports on all project activities.
J~/  Under the Presidential Decree No. 29 of 1984 on the implementation of the
State Budget, responsibility for dav-to-day financial management of
development projects (DIP) rest -ith PIMPROs (Pemimpin Proyek or Project
Leaders).



-94-
ANNEX 16
Page 5 of 8
Treasury
(a)  to prepare documentation needed for payments related to the project;
(b)  to maintain project accounts in accordance with GOI and Bank
requirements;
(c)  to prepare withdrawal applications for reimbursements under the
Loan;
(d)  to monitor and oversee the channeling of SAF to the sub-districts in
cooperation with the PUSUs; and
(a)  to prepare financial reports in accordance with GOI and World Bank
requirements.
Specialist Assistants Unit
(a) to provide expert support to the Project Director, the PPMUs and
PUSUs in the provinces in the implementation of the project
components in the following specialized fields at the central and
regional level:
(i) under-served schools (SAF);
(ii) books and learning materials;
(iii) teachers, promotion opportunities;
(iv) teaching-learning activities;
(v) management, monitoring and evaluation;
(vi)  provincial administrative coordination; and
(vii) financial planning and budgeting.
(b)  to provide technical-educational inputs to the Technical Advisory
Board; and
(c)  to assist the Project Director in managing the coordination of
implementation of provincial level project components and
administratiorn of the Loan.
The Inter-Ajency Provincial Coordinating Committee
6.        In the SPP/CBSA provinces, the Inter-agency Provincial Coordinating
Committee (IPCC) will comprise:



-95-
Page 6 of 8
-    The Governor (titular Head).
-    The Head of the MOEC Provincial Office (Vice-Chairman).
-    The Head of the Regional Education Services (Vice-Chairman).
-    Head of Districts participating in the SPP/CBSA and/o. SAF scheme.
-    Regional representatives of MOEC, MOHA, MOF, BAPPEDA, and the
Ministries of Religion, Social Affairs and Information.
-    The Provincial Project Manager (Secretary).
The IPCC will be directly responsible to the Regional Administration and will:
(a) facilitate inter-agency cooperation and coordination;
(b) review for approval province-wide action plans for project
implementation;
(c) recommend the allocation of funds;
(d)  guide, monitor and evaluate project implementation; and
(e) report regularly to the Governor and the Regional Administration.
The Provincial Project Management Unit
7.        In all six SPP/CBSA provinces a full-time Provincial Project
Management Unit (PPMU), headed by a Project Manager (PIMPRO) will be
established and will consist of: (a) a Secretariat; (b) a Treasury; and
(c) Specialized Working Units. Its structure and functions would for the most
part mirror the CPMU's.
8.        The Project Manager's responsibilities will include thte following:
(a) preparation of the provincial annual implementation plan for
approval by IPCC and coordination with the central implementation
plans and district/sub-district plans;
(b)  coordination of project activities in the province and provision of
support to Districts and Sub-district involved in project planning,
implementation and administration;
(c) assistance to Districts and Sub-districts in the procurement of
goods and materials under LCB procedures, involving standard local
bidding documents, specifications, evaluation of bids, contracting,
delivery and possibly installation;
(d) administration of local consulting services;



-96-
ANNEX 16
Page 7 of 8
(e) coordination and administration of local training and fellowships
schemes, local meetings, seminars and workshops;
(f) provincial implementation of monitoring and evaluation procedures in
accordance with guidelines established by the Project Director;
(g) preparation of regular reports to the IPCC and the CPMU on the
progress and quality of implementation;
(h) maintenance and provision of all project-related records and reports
as required under the Loan Agreement; and
(i)  cooperation with the Regional Edt.cation Services Office in all
matters relating to project admii..stration.
The Inter-amency District Coordination Committee
9.        An Inter-agency District Coordination Committee (IDCC) will be
established in six districts (one per province) involved in SPP/CBSA
activities under the project. The IDCC will comprise:
-    The Head of the District of Municipality (titular Head)
-    The Head of the MOEC District Office (Chairman)
-    The Head of the District Education Services Office (Vice-Chairman)
-    The Heads of SPP/CBSA Sub-districts
-    District representatives of MOEC, District Government, MOF and other
relevant District agencies
-    The District Project Manager (Secretarv)
10.       The IDCC will be directly responsible to the District Government and
will serve a similar function as the IPCC with regard to project activities in
the District.
The District Project Management Unit
11.       In the six SPP/CBSA districts, a full-time District Project
Management Unit (DPMU) will be established by the Head of the District or
Municipality. It will be headed by a District Project Manager and its
formation and functions are similar co the PPMU (para. 8) with regard to
District project activities.
The Sub-district Proiect Management Unit
12.       In the 18 SPP/CBSA sub-districts (three per district per province) a
Sub-district Project Management Unit (SPMU) will be established. It will be
headed by a full-time (sole job) Sub-District Implementation Officer, who will



-97-
ANFfi 16
Page 8 of 8
work closely with the Head of the MOEC Sub-district Office. The SPMU's main
function would be to carry out the instructions of the DPMUs with regard to
Sub-district SPP/CBSA implementation activities and SAF activities if the Sub-
district is participating in SAF programs.
Special Assis.snce Fund Management
13.       The Provincial Under-served Schools Unit.  A Provincial Under-served
Schools Unit (PUSU) will be established in non-SPP/CBSA provinces (up to six)
and will be headed by a Project Manager. The Project Manager is directly
responsible to the Head of the MOEC Provincial Office or Regional Education
Services Office or MOEC/DINAS P&K co-administration (to be determined). His
main responsibilities will be:
(a) to mar.age and coordinate all Special Assistance activities in the
sub-districts;
(b) to guide and supervise sub-district staff in implementing SAF
programs and to provide technical support according to need;
(c) to monitor the SAF local bank accounts and to recommend suspension
of disbursement if inconsistencies were encountered;
(d) to assist the CPKU in the evaluation of the impact of the Special
Assistance on the management of quality improvement; and
(e) to report regularly to the Head of MOEC Provincial Office or the
Head of the Regional Education Services Office or the Co-
administration Office (to be determined) and the Project Dir_ctor.
14.       In villages where special assistance is provided to under-served
schools there will be no fully fledged project management unit. Instead,
these activities would be carried out by a designated education official as
necessary, acting on the instruction of the Provincial Project Manager. His
responsibilities would include:
(a) advice, if necessary, to school principals in preparing
documentation and expenditure plans required by the project;
(b) assistance to schools to obtain SAFs in a timely manner; and
(c) provision of technical support to buy educational materials
efficiently in accordance with GOI and Bank guidelines.



PRIHR? ACDIATION CALltV IHtPOVNIt PttIC?
Draft Hontorle  Plen
C_eet/Svb.cempoent                     impementation                                    Inoiceter                                    Means                              1e  du                  Sy      La
A.  Two".* _              r    ,
s)  Tleacepr                                Plan  ed imPl*emet  d*development           HWber of teach.,-r traied per                 Quantitative ttpe1 t             swou_ l (Agust)          CUSt. Ptt
d"Olaopoent                            Pregram for teacher. OAd prineipal         district. frMliuency and durstie. o
throuh poer and group Workshops an          training
hew to Select and apply e rang" of
ectivity-based quotteionn  and              Teachers use a variety of                    Qualitative rPeprt hased          Sy mid-tern  ..jd float  PUSs
problem-solving teaching methods            instructional methos Suited to the           spon observatiln of a             revti 
ovavl of student enddrew upon a              raprosentattwi s._- of
rane oft toure   teriet to support           participating tlenclers
1t i1t teaching
Report an madel o f goorS mid-tern and fisel
acti-teechii Faer-i              review                   VW   pft
sractlt* e
(b)  Enhancing promot ion*    Carry net a stwdy obick ""Ild                             Study cwppletod in PITT and Vest              Umw provincial reports           July Ins,                CUSS. PM:
oVport`nIties for tetchera             analyse teaks of teachers end make          Sumatra awd recoemendetieos mded on                                                                     with iCti.
reconnondetieo  for rvle  Jobo        b    I   descriptions and lInting credit                                                                      5W SA2ii
escriptlee en  credit pat                   paints to pritIda criteria for
ellicatles  n 11noe With Sailm              particip tiPO    i SPP/CSA                                                      aceer 1904              cm
re ulremets for active teaching ond
(c)(i) Development ant supply         *    Carry out book identifications               Gidelines to Identify and rece_md            Quantitative report on the        "Id-termed *tn-l         P
of more books end                                                               good available pinted moterials                  W. of   Ides cempeted         rewlv
educetionel materiels                                                          completed. ditseminated end used by           Oan  distribted
rwetltative report os hew         Hid-ter  and final
gIdes used to support           review,                  CUSS. P.D
LSSA t eahingt z
Undertae bbeoo  neds ossesants end          Nmber of peorsonel trained ia needs          Qeratitative reports              Annal (Agtust)           tUlls
supply mocheniewa                          asse.ement. materiel. identilicetion.
and purchase sad distribution Se books
per district
Surwvys on enisting provisian of books       Progress raports                  West Swmetre ead  ITT
end maetrials eNd loal scope for                                              by mid-tern review       CUSS. is
preCUrieg enddittfibut leg teAtboks
*e   me *ri ls Carried eat in '1* ST:
SPP/CUSA provinces,                          finet  "arot                      octeor in?
5 Enhance Materials production                Nue"r end type of besic meterielsaend         Quantitative reports              Hid-ter nreiew           9555
pmenr t Supply end training for           materas production eqipment
eitTlable In the aSs SIC2SA province
echoela ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ c_,tn
et   Ik e IONC Office of inesech end Oovelapm. nt wod be the . bed edvisory agency
OR the technical dsoign of spepcfic project monitoring activities.
H Mid-term review  planne  for January-June 10  end final review for Aprel-October IMP.
Pb



C_empaenSubc.nPent                       iml.menttin                                        indicator                                     Mas_ ~m   d_                                                   y    e
ituer of educational persoeell                 Quntitative r-e46                  mid-torn review           NSA.
trained per district
Suitability and us. of suppliad                Qntittv  rapte                     Annal (August)             nle
Vterioio and metarilos product$on
aqwipmat tn sis SPPJCSSA prvlaccs
*    Publication of bulletin on                   Number of Issues distributed to                 Quaittative reports                Rid-taer  revlon         CNU. SABl
avall.bility of printed mterials             schools. libraries. oducationd offices
trem priwate and public sources              and boolsteres
Quantitative reports               Annual (Augut)           CRt. PRIM
(ii) Upgrading boo  quality  and         *    Pr tvison of training in book                fter ot  education personel" traind.            QuatittIve, reports                Annul (August)            CUl
variety                                 de:alomnt                                    Content. duration snd frequency of
tratWal
Participatton of publishers it                  teport on trainersa               me-term revnew            cR6
providtan  training                            publgshing s1i)ls
*    Eanace, matersils auto^rsbtp end             Nior ot  ducational personnel                   Qusntittctiv  rapes-ta            AMne) (Au"st)             CtR. Phs
production                                   treined in materiels authership *An
preduction In the sna SPPICSSA
provinAes. Content, duration and
freque*cy of training
(Sio)  soots polscy development               Stregten policy fornulatSon and              Action plans designed and Implemented           deport on activities of            Aninal (August)           CRU
lopboosntation. especially for               by Soet Developmnst Policy Natnort on          Soo, O6elopmeat Natuert            (One study
prinary educetin                             poitcy Issues                                                                      asnnullf)
tI) free hoots; () IPRES books
(ii) scbool librarles. (iv) book
suPPly.  u)  htterst
S.  Special Assisnce  for Undo-srv.d Sche_ls 
Study                                   Develop criteria, conduct surveys ti          Selection of SF school  validated and          zlsa of data soorces               December ISS2             O
Hit end Sunbar and select targeted           confirtd                                                                                                    indaten
schools                                                                                                                                                   uutr
Study                              *   Develop detoaled channeling                    loplenentation plan for each SAF               1eports                             ay 153                   pF"l
Smchanisms for SAPs to sel*Cted              school
schoolsDcaar13PRs
Start-up                           *    Develop troining program  for school          Program  developed end training                Reports                            WAY 19U3                  PAs t-..
princtpals end train trainers                completed
Stort-up                           *    Develop onitoring and supervision             Plans coeplatdd                                deports                            Nay 1953                  P s. t
plans
impl_mentition (pilot)            *    Train prinacipls  a nd refreshOr              Traoiing and plans completed                    Quatitative end                    Aneal (August)            PAWs
trainngs Snd priscipslis  school                                                             qualStatlve reports
plans
*    Diver SAfa to principols                      SAf delivered to schools                       Quantitativ  r"Port                Annual  (Augut)           PAWn
u she of SAFP                                      Principals' plans impleMentd                   Qualitttive repert                 Annu*a  (August)          Pl's
Asestsmnt (pilot)                 *    Rdvf    of efficiencY and                      Provincial relats  completed                   Qalitatie reports                  A a   r   Agst            Ps. Ca
effectsvees                                                                                                                     1sutanganstw
*fi*sttsa*ss~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v luai to
Eapensmos (tentative)             *    Study and start-wp acilvittes in              Studies and stert-up activities                 deports                            Au"st 1Me                PRe. CFe
four more provincst                          coPletod
*    ImplamentatIon In two plus four               Principals tralsned  schIol ples mn   e        deport st                                  tr_ a                   *
provinces                                    an4  A   deoIveored  nd uses                                                              f        A  
DlsseninatiOn (tentative)         *    Siudy slid Start-up act witsis tn sin         Studies end start-up activities                 Reports                            Ana  fr_ Augst           PRS. PUS'
soorest provinces                           completed                                                                          3954                     and CAlni
toE'
go
to3
M.



Cemponet/jSb-coupoemt                  lmpl.m"tetioe                                    Indicator                                    "ame,                             Wh_1bdu R, 2*e  L
Implementation in two plus t"r plus        Principal* tr eed. sehool plens made          Reports                          Ae 1 tram Augut          ppSi. 9hs
six provinces                              and SAfe dOlverod and used                                                      196                     adA CP
C    n   c_  |of C arci*t t
RIN ENVI",Ctro!w   a
is)  Strengthenin  provincial          *   Isek analysis cad job descriptions           Task. &anlyss and job descriptions            Qualitatve r,eort                baftabor It"             CJM. PPSi
administrotive support                 for l"EC cand CV1NA  PAt in Woet           with recomendAtions comp:eted
Simatra and NIT
*   Survey of trainingoeeds and design          Trining   ode4s and deasl%  of training       Qualitative reort                 Decm      1 996,        CINJ. prms.
of trainigl progrm                         program for key staff complettd
nwvb.r of kty ttelf traised. Ceetnt.         Quatitative repot                 It^l (fro   _t
dureti on end firequency of training                                           3%
*    X*y etaff t!1einin                          lncreased understending mad shills to         Qulitetlve  ePort based           final raviaw            Cw. "ms.
Manese qulity improvement                    on obeervatie  *t jab
perforeance of samPle Of
key staff
b lmpr   lo's 9^ne   Gdts tery    *   ConelItdet- sources end wsan of             Consolidated annual pres.ntatio-              Qualitttve re irt  West           Anmal (;r) tree   Cr
(bi  Improving financial  funds                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sumatra end * madret  Gfv Afuee,tr    c
enI budgetaryfu
*    fstablieshent of regular natlonal          Annual Intr-agency review meeting             Qualtetive report                      I fr  GFY           U"U    h
rewtiw  of pritmry  education budgets                                                                                      19939  (Augst)
*nd expenditurs
*    Study to at  *lIts  miontmm quality        Study completed                               Owelitative report                 itd-te  rrvlas,         crow. PURgC
standards a*n resources required to
meat the                                                                                                                                                      H
*    Conduct of Survey in Wast Sumtre           Survey carried Out-                           Qualitative repsrt wtth           Mld-t  ree               C       g
ald Til to determine schools below         result analyzed.  Targeting crtteria          action Pl4n
standerd       .                           rafind
(c)  Devoloping insttittona1           *   Onvalop capacty1 to lmple,ent
capacity                               evaluation studlee
ci)    Study to meeure tbe impat of              Study complete      Fd, inding dissemnated   Qulitative report   eatod         final * vtaw             CUl. P'a.
SPP/CSSA on school quality                                                              on action roi rnc     in twO
Improvement                                                                             pIlt provines
t)   Study to measure the effects of             Study completed.                             Quli tative report based          fina  review             cPg. P151*.
SAFs to under-served scbools              Findimls and action plan disseminated         on action research  - two
provInces
*      nbhntce policy foruAtston9
(I)   Colleciton and analyals of data            Policy questione  and type, for_at and        Report                           De_r 192                 CU   D.
af  a bsseline %tudy to measure           frequency of data decided upon
chhnget In primary education
q ualilt over time
Training needs and esign of program          Qualitetlue raplrt                Decemer 19J2             CUe
In plce to lprove data analysis and
Interpret shills for key staff
tber of key stalf trained.  Content.         Qucttitetlue report               Jame 1993                CUF
durat In and frequency Of iraintag             u"d%M"104                                                 "
bac&lin  date collected, analyzed.             alitative reort                Mid-t  revie             Cl
evailebks to polisymakers
(ii)  Provincial surveys for determinnlg         Surv*ys refined                              Qalltativ  reort wtth             Suer 1594                CtW. PuS.
the quality of inputs needed by                                                         progrms of CAttin
primary schools i" Wset Sumatra
and nl I
F :ad1        r*fcndat leo.                  Report                            D  er 199                Cl
d I ;:nI e
V
0m



-101-
PHIKARY ECUCATIOII SAITY IMPROVEMENT PRQJE$T
Sgnk Orcoui.npnced Educatlio *nd trainino Proiects
LenJCredit   Fiscat Yeor   Purpse                                           Agency                         A~owit
Muter                                                                                              teas cncecOLations)
Iank         IDA
(USS million)
219         1970        First Education                                MEC LA                                4.60
37          1$973       Third Education                                MOEC                                  13.50
1237         1976       Fcojrth Education                              MOC                        37.00
1433         1977       first Teacher Trining                          "OEC                       19.00
1486         1975        Monforusl Education                           MOEC                       15.00
869         1979        Polytechnic                                    MoEC                                 49.00
1904         1981        First University oevelopment                   MOEC                      45.00
2101         1962        Second Tracher Training                       "MC                        79.59
2102         1982        Second Taxtbook                                MOC                       25.00
2290         1963        Second PoLytechnic                             MOEC                     107.40
2355         1984        Second Nonformnl Education                     MEC                       43.00
2472         1985        5econdeay Education & Mgmt. Training           MOEC                      78.00
2547         1985        Second University Development                   OEC                     147.00
2944         1988        Higher Education Development                   MOEC                     140.30
3158         990        Second Secondary Education                     NOEC                     154.20
3311         1991        Second Highor Education Development            MOEC                     15-00
NOEC    Subtotal       1,040.49       67.10
288         1972        Secord Education                               NOA  b                                 6.30
1692         1979        Second AgricuLtural Training                   MOA                       42.00
2258         1983        NPCS/Contruction                               MPW t                      30.00
2341         1984        Third AgricutturaL Training                    PIG.                      63.30
259         1ws          Science & Technology Training                  MORT                      93.00
2705         1986        Maeowr Devekrqmnt & Training                   mom to                     58.10
2940         198         Accowntancy De%eLopment                        MOF a                     113.00
292         1989        Tree Crop Numsn Resource Development           MOA                        18.40
3112         19O         PubiLc Works Institution Dev. &
Training                                   MPW                       36.10
3134        l19          Profession Hman Resources Oev.                 BAPPE0AS, EPPT Lg         117.56
Subtotal            571.40       6.30
Grand Tota!       1,611.89       73.40
LJ  MOFC   N Mnistry of Education and Culture
Lk  1A    Nfinistry of Agriculture
Li  gPF    Ninistry of Pubifc Works
L   MORT . inistry of Ressarczh end Technology
A  WMMI   Ministry of Manpower
a   MOF    Ministry of Finance
LS  IPPT   Agecy for Assesment and Application of Technology



-102-
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
INDONESUA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Re2orts and Studies Related to the Sector and the Project
A.1 World Bank Report No. 7841-IND, "Indonesia Basic Education Study,"
December 22, 1989.
A.2 Ministry of Education and USAID, "Indonesia: Education and Human
Resources Sector Review," April 1986.
A.3 World Bank Report No. 8115-IND, "Second Secondary Education and
Management Project," December 20, 1989.
A.4 World Bank Report No. 7767-IND, "Impact Evaluation Report: Indonesia:
Sustainability of the First and Second Education Projects," May 22, 1989.
4.5 World Bank draft technical paper, "Strengthening the Quality of Teacher
Education," June 20, 1989.
A.6 "Primary Education Teachsr Study." (Final draft) A. Somerset and D.
Nielsen, May, 1991.
A.7  World Bank Report No. 9107-IND, "Second Textbook Project," November 9,
1990.
A.8 World Bank Report No. 9752, "Indonesia: Education and the World Bank:
An Assessment of Two Decades of Lending", June 28, 1991.
B. Draft Working Paoers
B.1 "Establishment of a System of Professional Development for Teachers,
Principals and Supervisors in Active Teaching and Learning," Audrey
Aarons, April 1991
B.2 "Strengthening the Budgetary System and Providing Special Assistance for
Under-served Schools," Vicente Paqueo, December 1991.
B.3 "Detailed Project Costs," Ruth Montague, December 1991.



-103-
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
C. RASkground Pa2ers Related to Proiect Preparation
C.1 "Monitoring and Evaluation," Angela Ransom, March 1991.
C.2 "PEQIP and Management of Education above the School and Cluster Levels,"
Dwight Y. King, March 1991.
C.3 "Proposals for Career Development and Compensation for Primary Schnol
Teachers," Caroline Bayulken, March 1991.



INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Education Structure, 1991
Gtad   1    2    3    4   5    6                7    8    9            10   t1  12                    13    14   15    16      17    18       19   2
I _I   _ I  I l _             L_III               _LIII                                 ii              I II  II             I I
Ag  7    8    9   10  11   12                 13   14  15            16   17  18                    19  20  21   22          23   24        25  26
Prmary Eduation                  Lower Seco y            Upper Seconday                                           Educam
Education              Edon
Basic Education                 *                                        ,      W   Si(S    ) wjar '   S3 (Ph.D)
*  IKuP (Teuhett Trahtr9c
.an  Seilndtior
Schools(SMA) iE
o Saeoos (ST De
ItyetbKIP                                                                                          oo DP eeDovepen
*   Instittions Enclaose dns                              .                                       Staos  TaP  *       o
*   SdbWof Ledvlng ExamuLafns                                                                      TeaaherTain
7    8    9      T~~lbchr ainingCenters
O   MasWes Degree OSchts (SIP&) *`
O   SManla Degree                                                    3
6   Ph.D                                                   ---    --  --   --
.-.InsObAons Endosed in                                      Other Sdmoos                       .Txbo   seom
Broken Lines have been assisted                                                                i SlaflTr=din -MWLydrr4  ic  o
-'by World Bank Group Loans                                      {,Teadcher TIrAng
Junior Set onary
PbSdtods~~~~~chol ;SMP)
ES                             ~~~~~~~~~Other;Schools  ---------
I_ I_ _ * ~~Vocatoa
-Training Centers
*Phased Out                                                          



INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture
|linItay od
IEducalion and
I     Culture
lnspec~~~~~~rate ~~office of dctoa                                                      eceaIl7*
& Cultural Research                                      Genera
q   Secrelarial  |              j   ~~Secretariat  |                                  |Adrninistration|
& Developrnent    ~sra  onen|
Bureau
dPnserate aE                                 dHigher       Ol|dNon-FormalEduca-|olCultuers  CnirneeBe
C1ireclorale General                       Directorate Genra                                 Direclorate General
tSecndpa y Educlionl                            Educ aton     l                                ton, Youth Sports                       of cutl
DPreciorare ofrelal                               4 D        Secrates                               4 D        Seret                    5 Di Sct ret
Provincia Offces|
Sub-Dlrectorales                                          Ministry of Education
|Distddt Oflbe
|   MOEC
t   MOEC



INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Management Organizational Chart: Central Level
BAKN               BAPPENAS                 MOEC                  MOHA                   MOF                 MENPAN              GOVERNORS
Commiltee       l
Technical
Director for                       Advisory
Primary Education                      Board
Project Director (Pimpro)
Central Project
Management Unit (CPMU)
* Project                    TBD               Subdirectorate        Subdirectorate        Subdirectorate               D              Subdirectorate        Subdirectorate
Administrator                               Primary Education        Monitoring              Finance                                    Personnel         Teacher Education
F a>Mm l 0 Working gmup for                        |Wmorkitongand t dgroup forwwkl:a98 Wokdng group for
Advsr                    porincigouao       Working group for       0mangegroupno       Working group for     Working roup for      WVorking group fo       tacli-ieamning
* Projecta  fie         admininistrative       under-served           maoitrn agent         budget and         bok ang learning        teacher career           atvte
S roecraitspot                                  schools            mntrn  n                 finance               miaterials          dvlpment          (nldn   PIBA
Secretadat  support                                ~~~~~~~~~~evaluation                                                                 nucgSPCBA



INDONESIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Management Organizational Chart: Provincial Level
PIMPRO.Govemor
Head of MOEC                                                                     Provincial PEQIP
Provincial Office                                                             Coordinating Committee
PIMPRO.
Head of the Provincial
Project Management
Unit (PPMU)
Working groups attached to existing subsections of the MOEC or DINAS
r   SPP/CBSA       Financial Planning        Leaming               Teacher             Under-served            Monitoring          Administrative
L PP/CBA        t    & Managment             Materials            Promotion               Schools             & Eva:uation            Support
UZI



lORD 2348:
Ir4AIAND                                                                                                                                                                                        INDONESIA
B.dAok A.h                                                                                                                                                                                              PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY
a '. - _   o->,                                                                      >             PHILIPPINES    /                                      ~~~~~~~~~~IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MAI      YSIA                                                           BRUNEIPH IP LIPE                                                                               S_A AROGRM ND  O              PTILOTEELOLRSPECIANLASTNCEFNAF)OCT
YSIA                       Nolr                                                                                                                                       PP/CBSA AND SAF PROGRAM, THE LATTER AFTER SUCCESSFUL
PILOTING.
0      PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
,    12   ,,-    <       )    {                                           MAIAtSIA   S                                                                       /                 if     NATIONAL CAAITAL
Monodo                  -      ~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
'  1    %  f   ,   S, >SINGiAPORE                          /0                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Po konb-n \C2                                                                                                                                                          NOTE: UP TO SI MORE PROVIANCES MAY A510 PECENVE SO I ELECTION OF PROVINCES  -
rA < . ' 5  9    o-N  19  IMSWRARM             TO GE DETERMINED FROMTTHE PROVINCES R4NKED AMONGST THE MOST D154DVANTAGED
C- ~       ~~~~~ AHA EMERA                                                                                                                                                    ON POVERTY AND0 EDUCATIONAL CIRTERA4.
>    _      A  ~~~r E R   , ^Pbonn-ok                              1 ^          ] 
Vodoog        ra_V F~ty                                  429     K A  LI       A   NTr A              18 oRonroo   Polu<3    TrLNTn                                               whoR                               ak
5b< >                   s                        g 0                                is @ 2lE                                       18              Al O70
1  D.KlIJAKARTA                 /             S              -j1
3  AWAIENGAII.                                                                                                                                                     25                 osSE A
S  IAWATIMSS              RURl.U 
6  LAMRUNG                                                                                                                                               d. ' o  aoo-in  L  21  do6Abe                                                       J A  Y A
7  BENGKULU                                      6
0.      SUJMATERA EEIATANI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 26
90 JAMBI                                        LMo,Eoflg                                                               Uj.ngp9od.rqQ                     SUTON
1I  SUMATERA BARAT                           '
12  SUMATEEA UTARA                            5-    %  AKARTA                                 .ho
13  DI.ACE
14  KALlfIMANTAN8ARAT                             .-' I                 .         r  a 
IS  KALIMANTAN TENGAH                                           8                    3 n,
ISIAIAIASRLATAN                                         .                                                                                                                                             T-,ibo,
IT  KAUMANTANT1MUE                                                       ' A  W  A  -'
17  XALIMANTANTIMUf9-                                                .a 'fJ                   5vbreoowhrTn7L
18  SUIAWESI TENGSAH4           TAoobo o,oS~
19  SULAWESI UTMA                                  Ar                                            5 ,oooo,oIo| _I)
20  SULARESI SELATANEI          n.    *onooN  10 R
21  SULAWESI TENGGARA           -000001 000 0r 0. M*o,MRnn    
22  BALI                        G,ThEod                                                                                     22n4 0.,, 0006  O..opo.RJ  _,i bo_
23  NUSATENGGARABARAT           hE6. do   Ln 0;2I
24  NUSATENGGARATIMUR              KI. R,ool                                                                                                            Ropong           VMOR
25 MALUKU"                      J000  0   010h 0b,            
26  IRIANdM JAYA                     0P o n
27  llMORTIMUR                                                                                                                                                                                                           AUSTRALIA
JANUARY 1992



