Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20634
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(23470)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 48.1 MILLION (US$65 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL
FORA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
June 27, 2000
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Sector
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1999)
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (NRs)
NRs 62.00 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0161 = NRs 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 16  -   July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB             Asian Development Bank
CIWEC            Canadian International Water and Energy Consultants
DCA             Development Credit Agreement
DHM             Department of Hydrology and Meteorology
DOR             Department of Roads
EA               Environmental Assessment
EdF              Electricite de France
EIA              Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR            Economic Internal Rate of Return
EWS             Early Warning System
GLOF            Glacier Lake Outburst Flood
GOF              Government of France
GTZ             The Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
GWh             Gigawatt - hour
HEP             Hydroelectric Project
HMGN            His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HV              High Voltage
IDA             Intemational Development Association
KfW             Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KV              Kilovolt
KWh             Kilowatt - hour
MCMPP            Marsyangdi Catchment Management Pilot Project
MHDC            Multipower Hydroelectric Development Corporation
MHPP             Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Power Project
MOI             Ministiy of Industry
MOWR            Ministry of Water Resources
MW               Megawatt
NEA             Nepal Electricity Authority
NDF             Nordic Development Fund
OEES            Office of Energy Efficiency Services
O&M              Operation & Maintenance
PA              Performance Agreement
PSEP             Power Sector Efficiency Project
PSR              Power Subsector Review
ROR              Rate of Return
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SFR             Self Financing Ratio
S&R             Screening & Ranking
Vice President:   TMieko Nishiomizu
Country Director:    Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Sector Director:    Alastair J. McKechrnie
Task Team Leader/Task Leader:    Tjaarda P. Storm van Leeuwen/Argun Ceyhan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  10
6. Sustainability                                                                      12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     15
9. Partner Comments                                                                    16
10. Additional Information                                                            16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P0 10392                                      Project Name: POWER EFF IMPROVEMEN
Team Leader: Argun Ceyhan                                 TL Unit: SASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 27, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: POWER EFF IMPROVEMEN                           L/C/TF Number: 23470
CountryIDepartment: NEPAL                                                Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: PH - Hydro
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/23/89                                Effective:  10/15/92           01/15/93
Appraisal:  06/23/90                                  MTR:                       03/01/96
Approval:  03/26/92                                Closing: 12/31/97             06/30/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: HMGNINEA
Other Partners: Nordic Development Fund
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           D. Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Hans M. Rothenbuhler                       J. Kraske
Sector Manager:      Alastair J. Mckechnie                      Frederick C. Temple
Team Leader at ICR:   Tjaarda P. Storm Van Leeuwen              Donal O'Leary
ICR Primary Author:   Argun Ceyhan
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L-Likely, UN=-Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's primary objectives were to:
*   Increase the supply capacity of the Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) by improving technical and
operational efficiency, upgrading existing generation capacity and improving the system load factor;
* Restore NEA's financial viability and strengthen its institutional performance;
* Enhance energy conservation measures, implemented by the Ministry of Industry (MOI) and NEA; and
* Address the remaining environmental concerns arising from the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Project (Cr.



1478-NEP) by supporting an innovative approach to catchment management on a pilot basis,
implemented by the Ministry of Local Development, Department of Roads (DOR) and NEA.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Following IDA's decision in August 1995 to defer consideration of the Arun III Hydroelectric Project (Arun III
HEP), HMGN and IDA agreed to add as an objective the development of a high quality pipeline of hydropower
projects to be offered for development. The reason for this was not only the expected future scarcity of public
multilateral and bilateral aid funds, but also the need to more explicitly take into account environmental and social
impacts in project selection. To define such a pipeline, a Medium Hydropower Study, launched as part of the
Project, included a comprehensive Screening and Ranking (S&R) process for project selection.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following components:
A. Components Implemented by NEA:
*   Generation Rehabilitation. Upgrading of the civil works of the Trishuli and Devighat hydroelectric plants
and the retrofitting of the Trishuli electro-mechanical equipment.
*   High Voltage Transmission Network Reinforcement.
-  Investments in the Kathmandu Valley to:
*   Increase the 66 kV circuit capacity to improve voltage regulation and reliability;
*   Upgrade the 66/11 kV transformer capacity at existing substations and construct two substations
near the load centers in Kathmandu (Teku and Bhaktapur);
*   Construct a S km 132 kV intertie between the Marsyangdi and Kulekhari system and a 12 km
132 kV line from Bhaktapur to New Chabel (initially operated at 66 kV); and
*   Construct a 4 km, 4-circuit 132 kV line between Teku and Suichatar.
*   Investments in other parts of Nepal to:
* Provide equipment, spare parts and tools for the Western, Eastern and Bagmati transmission
sections;
*   Construct a 132 kV interconnection line between Duhabi and Kataiya (Bihar, India) to upgrade
power exchange capability with India; and
*   Install the second circuit on the existing 132 kV Kusaha-Dhalkebar line and expand the
associated substations.
*   NEA Infrastructure/Buildings. The component included:
*   NEA Headquarters: provision of imported equipment such as electrical/mechanical building services,
communication equipment, computers, filing and drafting systems and other appropriate furnishings;
*   Workshops: provision of spare parts, tools, cranes and vehicles for NEA's mechanical and electrical
workshops; and
*   Training Center: construction of a Central Training Facility and provision of training equipment
together with consultant services to extend NEA's training programs.
*   Rural Electrification. Electrification of the Besisahar area and vicinity under the Marsyangdi Catchment
Management Plan.
*   Technical Assistance to NEA in the form of consultant services to assist NEA in:
*   Implementation of the generation rehabilitation and high voltage (HV) network reinforcements;
*   Design of NEA infrastructure and buildings;
*   Preparation of feasibility and/or detailed engineering studies for priority hydroelectric projects;
*   Continuation of the "twinning" support to NEA (para. 10.3);
*   Preparation of a Training Master Plan and detailed project for a new central training facility in
Kathmandu (para. 10.4); and
*   Efforts to improve the system load factor by providing services and equipment to upgrade NEA's load
dispatch center and install low frequency relays, load monitoring equipment, time of day metering
-2 -



and communications equipment to be used for the load management program.
B. Components Implemented by Other Agencies:
*   Marsvangdi Catchment Management Plan. The component included financing of consultant services,
materials and equipment necessary to implement the pilot project which covered:
* A soil conservation and sediment reduction program, implemented by the Ministry of Local
Development;
* Institutional support to the Local Development Office (Lamjung District) of the Ministry of Local
Development and to the Department of Soil Conservation and Watershed Management of the
Ministry of Forests and Environment;
* Upgrading of the Dumre-Besisahar road, implemented by DOR; and
* Electrification of the Besisahar area and vicinity, implemented by NEA (see above).
*   Industrial Energv Audits. The component implemented by MOI, included:
* Financing of consultant services and equipment needed for the establishment of an Energy Audit Unit
within MOI which would provide technical advisory services to assist local industries in
implementing energy conservation measures.
*   Technical Assistance to DOR. This component included consultant services to assist DOR in upgrading of
the Dumre-Besisahar road.
3.4 Revised Components:
The following components were added:
A. Component Implemented by NEA:
*   Rehabilitation of NEA's Gandak Hydropower Plant through provision of electro-mechanical
equipment and spares (funded from NEA's own resources); and
*   Medium Hydropower Study (Screening and Ranking exercise).
B. Component Implemented by Other Agency:
*   Establishment of an Early Warning System against Glacier Lake Outburst Flood (GLOF)
dangers at the Tsho Rolpa Glacier Lake (implemented by the Department of Hydrology
and Meteorology - DHM).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as "satisfactory". No specific QAG review was conducted for this Project. The Project
was prepared within the context of IDA's lending strategy for the power sector in Nepal. Specifically, the strategy
then called for assisting HMGN to: (i) develop Nepal's hydroelectric potential with minimal adverse environmental
impacts; (ii) upgrade the corporate performance of NEA; (iii) formulate a comprehensive investment program to
meet demand; and (iv) to set tariffs which reflect the economic cost of supply. The proposed investment program
for FY92-97 envisaged the creation of more than a billion dollars worth of power facilities which NEA would be
responsible for managing. The project was designed to reduce system and financial losses and thereby help
strengthen NEA's capacity, as a relatively new entity, to carry out the proposed power investment program, and
operate and maintain the system. To facilitate smooth project start-up, the project was submitted for board
approval only after a significant (61%) increase in NEA's tariffs was effected, provisions of the Performance
Agreement between NEA and HMGN agreed to, and procurement actions were well advanced for the principal
components of the project.
The project was prepared, appraised and approved when there was an intensive ongoing dialogue between the
Government and other co-financiers', particularly in the context of the preparation of the Arun III
HEP. This dialogue included a discussion on possible wider sector reforms. The Project was, however,
approved before the Bank's new strategy in the power sector was agreed with the Government (The Bank's Role in
the Electric Power Sector. Policies for Effective Institutional, Regulatory and Financial Reform, June 30, 1992,
R92- 193). During the appraisal of Arun III HEP (SAR dated August 29, 1994), IDA and HMGN continued the
dialogue on sectoral issues and agreement was reached on a wider set of sectoral reforms. As a result, in late 1992
-3 -



and 1993, HMGN started to implement reforms, and as a first step adopted new legislation, allowing private
investment into the power sector.
Within the context of Nepal, this more gradual approach to sector reform taken in the dimensions of this
project is considered appropriate and the quality at entry was satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Objective 1: Increase the supply capacity of the Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) by improving technical and
operational efficiency, upgrading existing generation capacity, and improving the system load factor.
The project's overall outcome is assessed as satisfactory given that most of the major objectives were achieved,
albeit after some delays and subject to occasional shortfalls during the project implementation period. As stated in
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), targets included reducing losses from 29 percent in FY90 to 24 percent in
FY93, and eventually to 21 percent by FY97. Improvement in operational efficiency is demonstrated by a reduction
of system losses to less than 25 percent by FY93 and to less than 22 percent by FY98, although this was
accomplished over a longer period than envisaged. Reduction of financial losses was achieved very early in the
project as evidenced by a rapid turn-around in NEA's operating accounts from a negative income position in FY91
and FY92, to progressively increasing profit margins from FY93 onwards, with the exception of FY98 where profit
levels fell but still remained positive. Moreover, in line with the target set in the SAR, accounts receivable were
reduced from the equivalent of 5.6 months average billings in FY90 to the current 3 to 4 months .
The rehabilitation of power stations and the expansion of the HV network were satisfactorily completed and their
operational efficiency substantially improved as a result of the project. During the implementation of the project,
power exports to India increased, and Nepal is expected to become a net exporter of energy over the next few
years. Therefore, this main objective was achieved.
However, NEA's overall operational efficiency can be further improved because of the continuing relatively high
level of losses in the distribution system. Rehabilitation of the distribution system was not part of the scope of the
project, but it was taken up by NEA with financing from other donors.
Objective 2: Restore NEA'sfinancial viability and strengthen its institutionalperformance
Based on the discussion below, it is concluded that Objective 2 was partially achieved.
A. NEA's Financial Viabilitv.
*   With tariff adjustments of 60 percent in November 1991 (a condition of effectiveness of Cr. 2347-NEP for
the Project), 25 pecent in March 1993, 38 percent in March 1994 and 20 percent in June 1996, NEA was
substantially in compliance with most financial covenants until FY96/97 (ending Ju:ly 15, 1997). In the
early years of Project implementation, NEA's financial performance improved rather dramatically
compared to the situation before approval. However, HMGN did not allow any tariff increases in FY97/98
and FY98/99, and during those years NEA was not fully in compliance with the financial covenants. With
the tariff increase of about 25 percent approved in November 1999, it is expected that NEA's financial
situation will substantially improve by the end of the current FY. Bill collection, from government
agencies in particular, remains problematic. Although at the time of closing of the Credit NEA was not
fully in compliance with its financial covenants, given the recent actions the overall objective of restoring
NEA's financial viability can be considered as being substantially achieved.
*   NEA took various other actions to strengthen its Finance Department. These included: (i) appointment
from outside NEA of a professionally qualified Finance Director and two professionally qualified
accountants to assist the Director (when the Finance Director left NEA, his successor, appointed from the
ranks of NEA, was professionally qualified, also); (ii) establishment of an Internal A.udit Department and
training of its staff; (iii) implementation of a basic accountancy training program; and (iv) initiation of com
- 4 -



puterization in billing and accounting.
* During the project implementation period, NEA's accounts were audited by international auditors. The
audits revealed various deficiencies in the accounting system and the way the accounts were kept. NEA
failed to adequately act on the auditors findings and its audit reports remained qualified. NEA's most
recent audit report had a "disclaimed" audit opinion. Major issues include: (i) adjustment in the treatment
of the revaluation surplus in the financial statements for FY97/98 and FY98/99; (ii) ensuring future
compliance with the International Accounting Standard 16 (relates to accounting treatment of revaluation of
assets); and (iii) ensuring that NEA's annual financial statements and audit reports are duly signed after the
approval by the Board of Directors in a timely manner. These corrective measures form part of the
program recently agreed with ADB (and IDA) to address the issues raised by the auditors. The program is
under implementation.
B. NEA's Institutional Performance.
* In 1992, HMGN changed the NEA Act with the objective of addressing the shortcomings in the original
Act in an attempt to establish an institutional framework which would enable NEA to operate more
autonomously and as a commercially oriented entity.
*   The new NEA Act has a provision for the sale of NEA shares to the general public or institutional
investors. When a minimum of 10 percent of NEA's share capital is sold, an Annual General Meeting will
be constituted and a new Board of Directors would have to be elected. Divestiture of NEA's shares was
not anticipated to take place during the implementation of this project.
T The new NEA Act also modified the composition of NEA's Board of Directors. It reduced the number of
government officials on the eight-member Board from six to three. The chairman is still the Minister of
Water Resources, and the secretaries of the Ministries of Finance and Water Resources are members. The
remainder of the Board consists of three private sector representatives and one consumer representative
nominated by HMGN, and NEA's Managing Director.
*   HMGN and NEA signed a Performance Agreement (PA) which covered: (i) NEA's objectives; (ii) the
respective rights and obligations of NEA and HMGN; and (iii) the agreed investment plan and its
financing, performance indicators, and financial projections. The PA was to be updated annually.
Conclusion of the first PA, with conditions satisfactory to IDA, was a condition of effectiveness of Cr.
2347-NEP for the project. The PA was signed in October 1992. In compliance with its commitments under
Cr. 2347-NEP for the project, NEA established a Human Resource Department and a Rural Electrification
Directorate. However, the most significant positive institutional development impact of the project has
been the on-the-job training of NEA staff working with the consultants carrying out the Medium
Hydropower Study, which was a state of the art exercise completed during project implementation. Most
staff are still with NEA.
*   Although not part of the project scope, a new accounting system was designed and NEA started to
introduce this new system. Plans to computerize the accounting and billing systems did not materialize
because funding to finance these activities was not available after IDA's withdrawal of support for the
Arun III project.
*   Although these measures represented important steps in the right direction, in practice, NEA's autonomy
and functioning as a modem utility leaves a lot to be desired. Although no specific target was set for
institutional improvements, one can conclude that the objectives have only been partially met.
* Objective 3: Enhance energy conservation measures. All three phases of the industrial energy audits program
implemented by MOI were satisfactorily completed. NEA's load dispatch center is being upgraded through a credit
by KfW. A Non-Technical Loss Reduction Project was undertaken by an ADB Technical Assistance Grant. A
separate ADB funded pilot project for computerized billing demonstrated the advantages of such systems for, inter
alia, loss reduction. Overall, this objective is considered to have been substantially achieved.
* Objective 4: Address the remaining environmental concerns arisingfrom the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Project
by supporting an innovative approach to catchment management on a pilot basis. Soil conservation and sediment
reduction programs were initiated and continue under GTZ funding. With the completion of the upgrading of the
Dumre-Besisahar road and rural electrification in the Marsyangdi area, this objective has been substantially
-5-



achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Components Implemented by NEA.
*   Generation Rehabilitation.
*   Following the rehabilitation/refurbishment works, generation at the Trishuli liydropower Plant was
increased from about 12 MW to 21 MW; the generation at the Devighat Hydropower Plant was
increased from 9.4 MW to 14.1 MW.
* Rehabilitation of the Gandak Hydropower Plant was carried out under NEA's own resources.
*   High Voltage Transmission Network Reinforcement. Following reinforcement of the high voltage network
in the Kathmandu Valley, supply capacity has increased from 160 MVA to 250 MVA.
*   NEA is transferring, during the dry season, about 30MW from India via the Duhabi - Kataiya 132 kV
transmission line.
*   NEA Infrastructure/Buildings. Installation of communication equipment, computers, and filing and
drafting systems has somewhat improved working conditions at NEA's headquarters; provision of
equipment to NEA's transformer workshop has substantially upgraded the repair capacity of this
workshop.
R Rural Electrification. Electrification works in the Besisahar area and vicinity have been completed.
*   Technical Assistance to NEA. Consultants were employed for:
*   The supervision of the rehabilitation of the Trishuli-Devighat hydropower complex and high voltage
transmission network reinforcement; and
*   Carrying out a screening and ranking exercise of medium-sized hydropower projects in Nepal and
feasibility studies for the seven projects identified in the optimum high-quality project portfolio. The
S&R process has been a state of the art exercise on introducing participatory approaches in project
selection including a series of review meetings with stakeholders, combined sound technical and
economic analysis, and taking into account social development and environm-ntal impact aspects
(para. 10.2). The expected outputs of the S&R exercise were to: a) help develop Nepal's hydroelectric
potential by building up a high quality pipeline of projects which had been selected through a
participatory S&R process that recognized technical, economic, financial as well as environmental
and social impacts, and ensured an appropriate balance between investments in generation,
transmission, and distribution; and b) establish procedures for introducing corapetition between
private power developers to construct and operate new plants.
*   "Twinning" Arrangements. During the appraisal and approval of PSEP, NEA s "twinning"
arrangement with Electricite de France (EdF) was ongoing. For this reason, th.e Project included
continuation of this arrangement as a component. The component was planned to be funded under a
bilateral credit from the Government of France (GOF). Towards end- 1992, EclF concluded that within
the environment then prevailing, a twinning arrangement was not a form of intervention strong
enough to be successful. EdF recommended that NEA sign a performance management contract with
an outside contractor. However, during the preparation of the Arun III HEP, HMGN and IDA did not
agree with this recommendation. The NEA/EdF twinning arrangement was discontinued in 1992, and
HMGN, IDA and the potential co-financiers of Arun III HEP concentrated on strengthening NEA's
institutional capability and performance with actions and conditionality summarized in para. 10.3.
*   Central Training Facility and Programs. This component was also planned to be funded under the
above credit from GOF. When this credit did not materialize, in late 1994 HMGN and IDA agreed to
fund this component under the IDA credit for the project (Cr. 2347-NEP). Because of the delays in
selecting consultants for the design of the training center and training programs to be implemented at
this center, the construction of the training center had not been completed by the time the Credit was
-6 -



closed. Since then, NEA has been funding the balance of expenditures to complete the construction
of the center and installation and commissioning of the equipment. At the time of this report, the
training center was still under construction (para. 10.4).
* NEA's Efforts to Improve System Load Factor. As mentioned above (para. 4. 1; Objective 3), NEA's
efforts continue under KfW and ADB projects.
B. ComDonents Imlnemented by the Other Agencies.
*   Marsvanedi Catchment Management Plan. Institutional support was provided by GTZ of Germany to the
Local Development Office (Lamjung District) of the Ministry of Local Development. Soil conservation
and sediment reduction programs were initiated and continue. Electrification of the Besisahar area and
upgrading of the Dumre-Besisahar road have been completed.
*   Industrial Energy Audits.
*   Within this program, an inventory of 250 industrial boilers throughout Nepal was prepared. The
following audits and projects were completed: 77 walk-through audits, 30 preliminary audits, 10
simple demonstration projects, and 3 minor retrofit demonstration projects.
*   Consultants assisted MOI, industries and hotels in implementing energy conservation measures;
formulating policies to encourage efficient use of energy; and undertaking training and outreach
activities.
E Early Warning System Against the GLOF Dangers from the Tsho Rolpa Glacier Lake. The system was
installed in 1998, successfully tested, and was in operation during the monsoons of 1998 and 1999.
*   Technical Assistance to DOR. Consultants were employed and helped DOR satisfactorily complete the
upgrading of the Dumre-Besisahar road.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was estimated for: (a) NEA's investment program
(time-slice for FY92 - FY2002, over an operation period of 30 years); and (b) the rehabilitation of the
Trishuli-Devighat power plants.
The EIRR for the FY92-FY2002 time-slice was calculated at appraisal as 2.4 percent without taking into account
consumer surplus; and 18.1 percent after taking into account the consumer surplus. This time-slice included the
construction of the Arun III HEP. Since the decision to defer this project, NEA's investment program has been
substantially changed. Thus, in the ICR, an EIRR for the revised time-slice was calculated. The EIRR for the
revised time-slice was computed as 12 percent without taking into account consumer surplus. As the EIRR was
greater than 10 percent, another computation taking into account consumer surplus was not undertaken.
The EIRR for the rehabilitation of the Trishuli-Devighat power plants was calculated at appraisal as 23 percent for
firm energy only. On the same basis, the EIRR for this component was calculated as 16 percent, using actual
tariffs paid.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return has not been calculated as it is more relevant to assess NEA's financial performance
through a number of financial ratios.
NEA's overall financial position showed improvement with four successive tariff increases during FY91/92 -
FY96/97. The total electricity sales increased from 737.4 GWh in FY91/92 to 1124.8 GWh in FY98/99. The
average retail tariff increased steadily from NR 1.99/kWh in FY91/92 to NR 4.96/kWh (about 8.1 cents/kWh) in
FY96/97, and the rate of return on revalued assets (ROR) increased from -0.5 percent in FY91/92 to 4.2 percent in
FY96/97. NEA's self-financing ratio (SFR) increased to about 40.4 percent in FY96/97 and its debt service
- 7 -



coverage ratio was 2.0 (See Table I below). Thereafter, NEA's financial performance started to deteriorate and
NEA was unable to comply with the main financial covenants under the project, mainly because HMGN did not
allow any tariff increases. However, in November 1999, tariffs were increased with another 25 percent to about Rs.
6.2/kWh or about US cents 9.9/kWh, making it one of the highest in the region. Efficiency improvements were not
sufficient to compensate for the lack of tariff increases, and NEA resorted to using its cash r eserves built up in the
early nineties to help fund its investment program. The level of accounts receivable, excluding sales to India,
remains about 3 to 4 months of sales equivalent, mainly because of difficulties in collecting from government
departments and municipalities.
NEA's non compliance with its financial covenants in FY97/98 and 98/99 was one of the miajor reasons that IDA
did not agree to extend the closing date for a second time, i.e. beyond December 31, 1998 (the Closing Date of the
Credit was extended once in December 31, 1997), except for the road component for which the Credit remained
open until June 30, 1999.
-8 -



Table 1: NEA Financial Summary
1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98   1998/99  1999/2000
Audited  Audited  Audited  Audited  Audited  Audited  Audited  Provisional Estimated
EnergyGenerated(GWh)                       901.2    851.7    901.9   929.7   1109.4   1136.4   1079.4    1162.8   1227.7
Energy Purchased (GWh)                      25.0    29.8      30.7    74.0    80.6    78.2        83.5       90.0   104.0
Gross SystemLosses (% ofAvg Energy)         24.8    24.3      25.9    25.1    24.6    24.9        21.6       21.7     18.8
Energy Sales (GWh)                         737.4    733.8    765.9    824.6   936.7   1010.6   1056.7    1124.8   1293.2
Average Revenue Rate(NRS/kWh)                1.99    2.54     3.38     3.98     4.15     4.96     4.94       4.94      6.2
Total Operating Revenues                 1514.20   1904.5   2611.8   3463.5  4012.2   5083.6   5419.0    5809.4  8326.5
Total Operating Expenses                   1618.1   1853.6   2188.7   2830.9  3234.2   3729.0  4667.0    4627.9   5545.8
Operatinglncome(NRsMil)                    -103.9    50.9   423.1    632.6    778.0   1354.6   752.0    1181.5  2780.7
Net Income (NRs Mil)                       -50.5    106.2    101.0    26.5   678.6    687.4    344.6        838.6  2264.7
Rate of Return on Revalued Assets (%)        -0.5     0.2      1.6      4.4      2.4      4.2      2.1        3.6      7.9
SelfFinancingRatioofTotalCost(3YrAvg)       9.08     35.8     46.2    26.3      10.6    40.4      28.7        3.4    15.5
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)          6.3      1.5      1.7      1.3      2.2      2.0      1.8        1.8     2.3
Current Ratio                                1.9      1.4      0.9      1.1      1.8      1.2      1.0        1.3      1.5
Operating Ratio                            106.9    97.0      84.0    82.0    82.5       76.2     88.2       81.1    69.0
Source: NEA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
A. HMGN Actions in Power Sector Reform:
*    Although the project itself cannot be directly credited, during the life of the project, HMGN, based on
recommendations made in IDA's 1992 sector report, enacted new legislation which formed the basis of
wider reforms in the Nepal power sector. These included the Hydropower Development Policy of 1992;
the Water Resources Act 1992; Electricity Act 1992; Electricity Regulations 1993; and Electricity Tariff
Fixation Regulations 1993. This new legislation opened the power sector up for private investment. The
Electricity Development Center was established in 1993 to serve as a one-stop window to private
investors, and the Electricity Tariff Fixation Commission was constituted in 1994.
*    These policy changes have helped attract private investment for Khimti 1 (60 MW), Upper Bhote Koshi
(36 MW) and Indravati (5 MW) hydropower projects. Also, considerable preparatory works for the export
oriented West Seti (750 MW) hydropower project have been completed. NEA is implementing Chileme
(20 MW) and Modi (14 MW) projects in joint ventures with private investors. Several other private
investors have obtained survey licenses.
*    Also during this period, HMGN concluded bilateral agreements for the development of water resources.
These include the agreement on electricity trade between Nepal and India and the Nepal-India Treaty for
the Mahakali River Integrated Development. These agreements raise prospects for private investment in
large multi-purpose projects such as Pancheswar and Kamali-Chisapani, and for creating a basis for
expanding exports of electricity to India.
*    While sector reforms are still in early stages of implementation, it is worth noting that HMGN in its Ninth
Plan (1997-2001) articulated a long term vision for the development of the power sector which includes
unbundling of NEA and privatization of distribution. In a recently concluded draft Power Sector
Development Strategy Report, the conclusion was also reached that further changes along the lines as
suggested in the Ninth Plan are desirable to enable HMGN to mobilize the financial resources required for
the planned development of the country.
-9-



B. NEA.
*   Since the various actions taken by HMGN and NEA, listed in para. 4. 1, NEA's institutional capability and
financial performance improved substantially compared to its position in March 1.992 when Cr.
2347-NEP for the project was approved. However, much remains to be done, particularly in areas such as
administration and accounting, billing and collection and distribution system losses.
*   On the positive side, secondment of 47 NEA staff to consultants in charge of the screening and ranking
exercise and feasibility studies for three hydropower projects between 100MW and 300MW, and
contracting out of preparation of environmental assessments and feasibility reports for four medium-sized
(below 100MW) projects, provided an enormous amount of transfer of knowledge to the NEA and the
Nepali engineering community.
C. Other Implementing A2encies.
* The Office of Energy Efficiency Services (OEES) was established in MOI during the first phase of the
project and operated satisfactorily during the life of the project.
* Consultants assisted the Ministry of Local Development and its Lamjung District Office in initiating and
implementing soil conservation and sediment reduction programs.
*   Consultants assisted DOR in designing, contracting, and supervising the upgrading of the
Dumre-Besisahar road.
*   Consultants assisted DHM in designing, contracting, supervising, and commissioning the EWS against
GLOF dangers from the Tsho Rolpa Glacier Lake.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The two factors outside the control of HMGN were:
*   IDA's decision in August 1995 to defer consideration of the Arun III HEP (to withdraw from this project).
IDA's decision affected, for some period of time, HMGN's relations with the Bank and other cofinanciers.
It also caused considerable delays in implementation of some of the institutional strengthening measures.
-   Non-materialization of the bilateral aid from France, which was expected to provide funding for the
design and construction of the central training facility and training programs. The training center is still
under construction and some of the training which was planned to be given in this center was given in
NEA's existing smaller training centers.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A. NEA.
*   The changes to the NEA Act enhanced NEA's autonomy on paper, but in practice, HMGN appears to be
unwilling to provide NEA with the degree of autonomy that is a necessary (but nolt sufficient) condition
for the utility to operate on a commercial basis. There were frequent changes in managing directors and
interference into day to day matters including recruitment of staff. Also, HMGN's reluctance to adjust
tariffs harmed the relations with the principal donors.
B. Other Implementing Agencies.
*   For reasons outside NEA's control HMGN revoked the license of the contractor who was in charge of
building a portion of the Dumre-Besisahar road. DOR had to rebid the works, and this delayed the
completion of the road.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A. NEA.
*   NEA's managerial weaknesses; difficulties in recruiting qualified accounting staff, and a lack of attention
to financial management continued to be main factors (closely tied to the previous:ly mentioned factors)
impeding a satisfactory institutional development of the utility.
*   Attention to staff training was insufficient partly because NEA could not decide oni the hiring of
consulting firm to set up the new training center and programs.
- 10 -



*   NEA had difficulties in preparing the technical specifications for the software it purchased to enhance its
engineering capacity.
*   The incident which occurred in the Trishuli hydropower plant in 1998 interrupted the operation of this
plant and that of Devighat, which is downstream of Trishuli, for a short period of time. NEA took
emergency actions to clean the power station and restore the four unaffected units to service. Repairs were
completed in March 1999. More information about this incident is given in para. 10.5.
B. Other Implementing Agencies.
*   Delays in the completion of the components implemented by MOI, DOR, and DHM occurred because the
agencies had to familiarize themselves with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, the project's total cost, including physical and price contingencies, and duties and taxes, was
estimated at US$88.6 million, based on mid-1990 prices. The unit costs were on recently signed contracts for
comparable civil works, transmission and distribution projects, and recent quotations for spare parts and consultant
estimates for the Trishuli-Devighat electro-mechanical equipment. Physical contingencies were included at the rate
of 15 percent for the Trishuli-Devighat civil works and 10 percent for the other components. Price contingencies
assumed in the estimates were based on IDA's projections.
Costs proved to be over-estimated because of the slow but continuous depreciation of the Nepali Rupee
with regard to the US dollar. The exchange rates at appraisal and at closing of the Credit in end-1998, were NRs.
42.7/US$ and NRs. 62/US$, respectively. However, it should be noted that just one month after the Credit was
declared effective, it was determined that there was going to be US$7.2 million of savings. NEA/HMGN requested
the savings to be used for other investments in line with the objectives of the project , and to prepare a new
operation after the cancellation of Arun III HEP. The S&R process was one of the sub-components which was
included into PSEP.
The total cost of the project is currently estimated at US$62.8 million, only about 71 percent of the
estimates. At appraisal, financing requirements, including interest during construction at an annual rate of 10.25
percent, were estimated at US$100.1 million. The IDA Credit of US$65 million equivalent would finance about 65
percent of the project's total cost. At the time, HMGN had requested from the Government of France (GOF)
US$5.1 million equivalent for the NEA training component. GOF had agreed to fund the first tranche (US$0.71
million equivalent), and it was anticipated that further financing would be agreed upon during future discussions
between HMGN and GOF. This financing, however, never materialized, and in end-1994 IDA agreed to include
funding of the training component under the IDA Credit 2347-NEP.
The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) provided SDR 4 million (US$5.4 million equivalent) to finance
spares and equipment for the transmission and rural electrification component of the Marsyangdi Catchment
Management Pilot Project (MCMPP). The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany provided funds,
through GTZ, to finance the components related to soil conservation and watershed management of, and
institutional support for, MCMPP.
HMGN onlent the proceeds of the IDA Credit to NEA at an interest rate of 10.25 percent per annum,
repayable over a period of 25 years, including a grace period of 5 years. HMGN bears the foreign exchange risk.
The balance was passed to the Ministries of Public Works (for the Dumre-Besisahar road), Industry (for the
industrial energy audits), Local Development (for MCMPP) and Science and Technology (for the early warning
system against GLOF dangers from the Tsho Rolpa Glacier Lake).
As stated above, costs were below the estimates and all of the IDA Credit was not utilized by HMGN.
SDR 8.3 million (US$11.2 million equivalent, with the rate valid on the date of cancellation) was canceled on
February 18, 2000.
- 11 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely, overall.
A. Components Implemented by NEA.
*   NEA has developed the capability to satisfactorily operate and maintain the Trishuli-Devighat hydropower
complex; the high voltage transmission network; and equipment repair workshops. However, NEA will
continue to need technical assistance to improve its operational efficiency. These needs will be taken up as
part of the recently approved ADB Nepal: Rural Electrification, Distribution and Transmission Project
and the proposed Power Development Project.
* NEA staff considerably benefited from the transfer of knowledge during the screening and ranking
exercise and feasibility studies for medium-sized hydropower projects, carried out under PSEP. Most staff
are still with NEA. For-exercises of this nature, it is logical that NEA continues to rely on outside
consulting services in specific areas such as surveys, feasibilities and detailed engineering reports for
large and storage projects.
a   Overall, it is assessed that the sustainability of the benefits obtained from the components implemented by
NEA is "likely".
B. Components Implemented by the Other Agencies.
*   HMGN may continue to experience fiscal difficulties in allocating funds for the operation and
maintenance of the Dumre-Besisahar road.
*   HMGN will need additional technical assistance and foreign funds to maintain the benefits it obtained and
capacity it built under the Industrial Energy Audits component.
*   HMGN will need additional foreign funds to:
* operate and maintain the Early Warning System against the GLOF dangers at the Tsho Rolpa Glacier
Lake, and
e   sustain the benefits obtained under the Marsyangdi Catchment Management Plan Pilot Project and
expand the catchment management beyond the scope of the pilot.
*   Under the current situation, sustainability of the benefits obtained from the above components is assessed
as "unlikely".
C. Overall Sustainability for the Proiect.
*   As NEA components formed the major part of PSEP, it is assessed that overall the sustainability of the benefits
obtained from PSEP is "likely".
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A. Components Implemented by NEA.
*   Except for a short period of time in 1998, the Trishuli and Devighat hydropower plants have been in
operation since August 1995. NEA's operation and maintenance staff at the plants vere trained by the
Engineer and Contractor at the site, and manuals were provided to the plant management.
*   The transmission lines and substations were transferred to NEA's Operations Direct orates. NEA has the
competence to operate and maintain its distribution and transmission networks.
B. Components Implemented by the Other Agencies.
*   During the audits, the industries were willing to implement the findings and recommendations of the
audits. However, MOI lacks the capacity and financial resources to follow up with the industries.
*   The Dumre-Besisahar road has been taken over by DOR. DOR has the human resource capacity to operate
and maintain this road but it lacks financing resources. However, HMGN has started the sustainable Road
Maintenance Scheme by introducing the Road Fund Act 2000. DOR has informed the Bank that regular
maintenance of the Road will be properly provided for after the Road Fund is operational.
- 12 -



* The operation and maintenance of the Tsho Rolpa EWS has been taken over by DHM. The Department's
human resource capacity to operate and maintain such a high-tech system needs to be complemented by
technical assistance. While agreeing in funding the EWS under Cr. 2347-NEP, IDA had conditioned that
DHM sign an O&M contract for at least five years with a competent firm. DHM lacks the financing
resources to fund such a technical assistance contract. HMGN (DHM) has requested to finance the O&M
contract from another ongoing IDA project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Marginally satisfactory.
*   The project was designed to improve NEA corporate autonomy and to provide it with the capability to
complete the physical construction. IDA waited a long time from appraisal in June 1990 to Board presentation
in March 1992 for HMGN and NEA to take the necessary actions identified during appraisal. The most
important actions were a tariff increase and conclusion of a Performance Agreement (PA) between HMGN and
NEA, both satisfactory to IDA. Procurement for the principal components (rehabilitation of the
Trishuli-Devighat hydropower complex and reinforcement of the high voltage network) was initiated, and bids
for the high voltage network contracts had been received.
-   However, the institution building measures were not well defined before Board approval. They were still being
developed under the NEA-EdF twinning arrangement. No specific targets were formulated as part of the
project although some performance targets were set in the PA. The intention appeared to have been to
incorporate more specific institution building measures in the next IDA project, which was expected at the
time to be Arun III HEP, and was scheduled for approval relatively quickly after the PSEP. Major efforts were
put into cooperation and coordination among HMGN, NEA, IDA and all the interested co-financiers which led
to a general agreement on the wider development objectives for the sector during project implementation.
*   While the overall development objectives agreed upon during appraisal where appropriate at the time, in
retrospect, they should be considered rather ambitious taking into account the implementation capacity of the
client. The appraisal mission had a lot of confidence in the proposed twinning arrangements and the
Performance Agreement; in retrospect, these have not been effective instruments in the context of NEA.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory.
*   Eleven supervision missions were fielded. Issues were identified quite in advance, and recommendations were
provided in a timely manner. The general HMGN-IDA dialogue on the power sector was affected by IDA's
decision to defer consideration of Arun III HEP, but the direct relation with NEA project staff responsible for
implementing the PSEP did not suffer. However, Bank staff should have requested that NEA make a decision
on the issue of consultants for the training center and program much sooner. Furthermore, well before the
closing date, more emphasis should have been placed on the importance to accelerate the implementation of
the planned computerization of the accounting and billing and metering systems, in particular when it became
clear that alternative funding sources were not available.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory. It is recognized that the institution building measures could have been better designed at entry, but
this was only one aspect of the project and on balance the overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory.
*   The feasibility reports for the rehabilitation of the Trishuli-Devighat hydropower complex and high voltage
- 13 -



network reinforcements were well prepared. However, the Environmental Assessment for HV Reinforcement
was not detailed enough and failed to recognize any difficulties which NEA later experienced on compensation
and access to tower sites.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Marginally satisfactory, overall.
A. Components Imnlemented by NEA:
* HMGN's support of NEA for the physical components was stronger than its support for
institution-building activities, in particular, for putting NEA's finances on sound footing by approving the
necessary tariff adjustments in a timely manner. The tariff adjustment which was put into effect in
November 1991 was late. NEA needed further tariff adjustments in July 1998. It was only in the
summer of 1999 that NEA applied to the Electricity Tariffs Fixation Commission for an adjustment, and
the Commission approved tariff adjustments of an average of 25 percent in November 1999.
B. Components Implemented by the Other Aeencies:
* HMGN's support for DOR, MOI and DHM was satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
A. NEA:
Marginally satisfactory.
*   The physical components (except for the Trishuli and Devighat sub-component) were completed later than
projected at appraisal.
*   NEA's performance in implementing the physical components was better than its performance in
implementing the institutional actions; however, it should be noted that several of the critical
components, such as the computerization of the accounting and billing system, were not part of the
original Project scope. Most of these components have since been taken up with assistance from other
donors, notably ADB. NEA also receives technical assitance in other areas under various donor financed
programs.
*   It is noted that changes in the senior levels of NEA did not negatively affect the quality of PSEP project
management although decisions were sometimes held up.
*   The performances of the Project Coordinator and Project Managers in charge of each of the components
were satisfactory.
B. The Other Implementing Agencies:
*   The Department of Roads (DOR): DOR was slow in appointing the consultants, conducting the
procurement/evaluation, and finalizing the contracts. DOR's supervision of the contracts was more
efficient. DOR's performance was marginally satisfactory.
*   The Ministry of Industry (MOD: MOI appointed the consultants for Phases I and 2 in relatively short
periods and supervised, rather efficiently, the consultants' works during their audits and demonstration
projects. MOI's performance was satisfactory.
*   The Department of Hydrology and Meteorologe (DHM): The early warning system against GLOF dangers
was the first project DHM had with the Bank. They had to learn about the Bank's procedures and
guidelines. Thus the selection of the consultant took longer than planned. Once the contract was signed,
DHM followed the design, implementation, testing and commissioning of the system efficiently. DHM's
performance was satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Marginally satisfactory.
As NEA components formed the major part of PSEP, it is assessed that Overall Borrower Performance was
"marginally satisfactory". Although, it was not directly part of the project, recognition should also be given to the
adoption by HMGN of new policies and legislation, which opened up the power sector to private investors. Nepal
- 14 -



has been a front runner in that respect. Thesc :.beralization measures were formulated as'jart of the continuous
dialogue between HMGN, NEA and Bank stafi.
8. Lessons Learned
*   The Performance Agreement signed as a condition of effectiveness, and which was designed as an
instrument to enhance NEA's autonomy and monitor its institutional performance, has proven to be
difficult to enforce. While changes were made in the composition of the Board of Directors the :najority
of the Directors remained ex-officio government officials and this proved to be insufficient to guard NEA
against political interference in day to day matters. While the Government long run policy for the power
sector includes the privatization of NEA, possibly after unbundling, in the context of Nepal, it will take
time to achieve. In the interim, further modifying the composition of the Board of Directors could be a
second best alternative.
*   The design of the institutional development measures was not effective. Effective training and
recruitment of qualified staff should have been given more priority to ensure institutional development
actions are sustainable. Under the project, technical staff benefited much more from on the job training
and coaching of consultants; but training of financial staff received much less attention. Weaknesses in
available skilled human resources (particularly in the financial and administrative areas); lack of
appropriately designed training programs; and practical problems of donor coordination all contributed to
the difficulties in meeting institutional development targets. The project team would have benefited from
specialist staff to ensure that such project components were realistic and well designed.
*   Setting specific performance targets and having to rely on other donors funding for implementation
creates risks, particularly in a situation where strong corporate management is not yet in place. A good
example was the issue of the central training facility and training programs that was left unresolved at
Board presentation. It was expected that a bilateral credit from France would be forthcoming, but this did
not materialize. It was almost two years later that HMGN and the Bank agreed to fund the training center
sub-component under the Credit. Selection of the engineering consultant to design the center and prepare
the Master Training Plan took longer than planned. When the Credit was closed, construction of the
training center was not completed. Since then, NEA has been funding the training center from its own
resources.
T The project has shown the advantage of addressing key issues and procurement early in the project cycle.
This approach should be continued in future projects.
- Appropriate external audit arrangements can be used as a tool for increasing accountability and institution
building. Initially, the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) appointed a local audit firm to carry out the
audit of NEA accounts, but the scope of that audit and the capabilities of the local audit were not
acceptable by IDA. It was therefore agreed to have a special auditor appointed complementing the work of
the local auditor. During project implementation it was however, agreed with NEA and OAG to have one
single annual audit carried out meeting the requirements of both the OAG and IDA. Over the last few
years, in practice, the annual audit was carried out by an international audit firm in association with a
local firm. This arrangement has proven to be valuable both for improving audit standards and
developing auditing skills in Nepal.
*   Environmental Impact Assessments should be initiated early in the project cycle. At the time of this
project, procedures for assessments were quite different than in following years. With new procedures,
information gathering is more thorough and will decrease such ambiguities that were present in this
project. Although only about 40 families were affected for just small portions of their land, court
proceedings took a long time and construction of some of the HV transmission lines was delayed. On
these lands/ parcels, transmission towers were built. The land required for the construction of a tower is
minimal. The owners took NEA to court to increase their compensations. In one case (the one which
lasted longest), there was a two story house over which the line was to pass. The owner built two more
stories (illegally - without any permission from the municipal authorities) and then wanted compensation
for the additional floors too. After NEA won the case, the then-MD of NEA still did not want to use
force. NEA took some more time, diverted a portion of the line, avoided the house, and paid some
compensation for the portions of the garden used.
*   Public consultations based on sound technical, economic, financial criteria and taking into account social
- 15-



and environmental criteria, as used in the screening and ranking exercise of the Medium Hydropower
Study, should be made an integral part of the preparatory process to create a political consensus on
proposed hydropower investmepts. It is an essential tool for mitigating social and environmental impacts
as well as implementation risks.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower, after reviewing the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), had minor comments. These
comments are included as part of the Borrower's Evaluation Report which is attached to this ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
10.1 Background to Preparation/ Appraisal and Approval of PSEP.
In 1987 at the request of HMGN, ADB and IDA conducted a diagnostic study of Ne:pal's Power Subsector.
As a result of the Power Subsector Review (PSR - Report No. 6879a-NEP; dated January 1988), HMGN, ADB and
IDA agreed that further attention needed to be given to improving institutional performance, energy pricing and
resource mobilization, investment planning and bulk electricity exports. Arun III HEP was identified as the next
new generation project to be implemented. The PSR also identified that there was a need to rehabilitate two
existing hydropower plants, strengthen the high voltage network in the Kathmandu Valley, and continue the
institutional strengthening of NEA. IDA prepared and approved the Third Technical Assistance (Pancheswar)
Project (Cr. 1902-NEP) to help NEA implement the PSR' s recommendations relating to investment preparation in
generation, transmission and distribution; upgrading of existing generation facilities; electricity tariffs; and
improving NEA's operational efficiency. Funded under the then ongoing Cr. 1478-NEP for the Marsyangdi
Hydroelectric Power Project (MHPP) and the above mentioned Cr. 1902-NEP, the following reports were prepared,
as part of preparation of the Power Sector Efficiency Project (PSEP): (a) the feasibility report for the rehabilitation
of the Trishuli-Devighat Hydropower Complex; (b) the detailed project report for the urgent reinforcements in the
high voltage network in the Kathmandu Valley; and (c) reports on load management options and measures for the
1992-1996 period. The recommendations of these studies were amalgamated into the PSEP, funded under IDA
Credit 2347-NEP, which is the subject of this ICR.
By the time PSEP was approved, IDA, ADB and other co-financiers (OECF of Japani, KfW of Germany,
and bilateral aid agencies of the Govemments of France, Sweden and Finland) had focused their assistance and
dialogue with HMGN and NEA on the preparation of the Arun III HEP. HMGN took actions in line with the
commitments it made during the appraisal of Arun III HEP. In 1995, IDA undertook a comprehensive re-review of
the Arun III HEP, and under the circumstances prevailing in August 1995, concluded that the risks to Nepal in
undertaking a large complex project such as Arun III HEP were too great to justify proceeding with the project.
Thus, IDA decided to defer consideration of Arun III HEP and assured HMGN that it attached the highest priority
to helping Nepal in devising and implementing an alternative strategy for meeting its needs for electric power. For
some period of time, IDA's decision affected HMGN's relations with the Bank and other cofinanciers.
10.2 Screening and Ranking (S&R) Exercise
In the past, HMGN's development and IDA's lending strategies for the power sector in Nepal were based on
supporting relatively large hydroelectric power stations to be executed in the public sector. The Arun III HEP was
the latest example for this strategy. Following IDA's decision in August 1995 to defer the construction of the Arun
III HEP, HMGN and IDA adopted an alternative strategy with an initial focus on an accelerated pursuit of smaller
hydropower projects for meeting Nepal's power requirements. In view of the expected future scarcity of public
- 16-



multilateral and bilateral aid funds, a pipeline formed of high quality medium sized hydropower projects would be
an appropriate instrument to be presented for private development.
With financing from Cr.2347-NEP, a Screening and Ranking (S&R) exercise, aimed at reducing project
implementation risks by selecting hydroelectric schemes through a transparent and public process, in addition to
application of comprehensive evaluation criteria was carried out in 1996/97. The evaluation criteria, was based on
technical, economic, financial, environmental and social development impacts of the proposed projects. Thus, the
traditional criteria, which included only the technical, economic and financial characteristics and impacts, was
broadened to include the expected impacts of the projects on the physical environment and to the local society in
the vicinity of each project.
The first step included the evaluation of 145 hydropower sites in a coarse S&R. Subsequently, 24 sites were
selected for more detailed evaluation (fine S&R). Seven of those 24 projects were selected and formed the high
quality project pipeline. Feasibility studies and preliminary environmental impact assessments (EIAs) for these
projects were carried out by international and local consulting companies in 1997/98. The feasibility studies and
preliminary EIAs for four large projects (Upper Karnali, Dudh Koshi and Tamur 4/5) were carried out by an
international consultant (CIWEC of Canada); the feasibility studies and preliminary EIAs for three medium sized
projects (Rahughat Khola, Likhu-4, Kabeli A and Budhi Ganga) were conducted by local consulting firms, under
the supervision and responsibility of CIWEC.
This creative arrangement of having the international consultant responsible for the outputs ensured that the
results were subject to the quality assurance of experienced and competent experts from the international
consultant, while the local consultants broadened their knowledge and know-how in designing hydropower
projects. Secondment of 47 NEA staff to CIWEC and employment of local consulting firms allowed enormous
transfer of knowledge to the Nepali engineering industry.
During the fine S&R process, seven additional sites for which licenses (survey or production licenses) had
already been granted to private developers and NEA were also reviewed. They were all confirmed as fitting the
S&R criteria and were among those projects chosen for implementation. (Some of them are in the process of
construction).
The feasibility studies and preliminary EIAs confirmed recommendations emerging from the S&R exercise
that the development of small and medium-sized projects (IOMW to 300MW) were appropriate for meeting
Nepal's domestic demand for electricity in the medium term.
During the S&R process, a stakeholder analysis for identification of the legitimate stakeholders was also
conducted, and systematic public consultations with those stakeholders were held. (Details of the consultation
process are available in the project files)
The S & R exercise:
*   Developed Nepal's hydroelectric potential by building up a high quality pipeline of projects which
had been selected through a participatory S&R process that recognized technical, economic, financial
as well as environmental and social impacts and ensured an appropriate balance between investments
in generation, transmission and distribution;
*   Improved the regulatory environiment for private investment in the power sector and established
procedures for competition between private power developers; and
*   Improved the efficiency of operations and creditworthiness of NEA.
The S&R process was a state of the art exercise on participatory approaches with review meetings with
stakeholders and taking into account social development and environmental impact aspects.
However, before projects are approved by HMGN for implementation, detailed environmental and social
- 17 -



assessments will be carried out in accordance with Nepalese guidelines. In the case of projects funded under
possible, subsequent IDA Credits, these detailed environmental and social assessments would also be carried out in
accordance with IDA guidelines. The process includes an interagency review and full public stakeholder
consultation and participation, in particular, for the preparation of the environmental management and
resettlement and rehabilitation action plans.
10.3 NEA - Electricite de France (EdF) Twinning Arrangement
During the appraisal and approval of PSEP, NEA's "twinning" arrangement with l,lectricite de France
(EdF) was continuing. For this reason, the Project included continuation of this arrangement as a component.
Under Cr. 1902-NEP for the Third Technical Assistance (Pancheswar) Project, NLA signed a twinning
contract with EdF. The arrangement consolidated the studies and technical assistance measures in support of
NEA's institutional development and provided for expertise in all aspects of power utility piractices with special
emphasis on assisting NEA to develop a corporate plan and improve operations management. ADB and IDA
rejected the first version of the diagnostic study of NEA's institutional development plan. IDA and ADB accepted a
second proposal but called for further development of the overall implementation plan. These reviews and
communications delayed the start of implementation by about 18 months.
Some findings and recommendations of the twinning, such as the establishment of separate Human
Resources and Rural Electrification Departments (each one headed by a Director reporting directly to NEA's senior
management) and appointment of accounting consultants to separate NEA's rural electrification accounts (so that
HMGN would reimburse NEA for annual loses incurred in rural electrification), were included under PSEP. NEA
and EdF developed a performance improvement plan which was incorporated into a Perforrnance Agreement (PA)
between HMGN and NEA, the first of which was signed in October 1992 as a condition of effectiveness of PSEP;
IDA was consulted in the process. The terms of the PA required annual reviews. In additiorn, NEA developed a
preliminary three-year rolling Corporate Plan. Diagnostic studies were carried out and recommendations were
developed for the other institution building issues such as loss reduction, computerization of the billing, accounting
and material management functions, etc.
At the end of the twinning contract, EdF concluded that within the environment prevailing in 1992, a
twinning arrangement was not a form of intervention strong enough to be successful. Its impact would take too
long to effectively address the serious short-term problems of the Nepal power sector. EdF recommended that the
next step in the institutional development of the Nepal power sector and NEA would be a performance contract
with an outside contractor who would be in charge of NEA's day-to-day operation. Its primary goals would be to
take short-term and mid-term actions to improve the personnel's productivity, lower the level of customer accounts
payable and better oversee working capital requirements. The performance management contract would stipulate
upfront the improvement objectives to be achieved. The contractor would bring in its own slaff in key management
positions and would have the required autonomy to make the decisions needed. Its compensation would be tied to
the performance achieved: it would include a fixed payrnent and a variable remuneration based on actual
performance.
However, during the preparation/appraisal/negotiations of the then proposed Aran III HEP, HMGN and
IDA did not agree with the above recommendation which could have been seen as a first step towards private
sector involvement in NEA. The NEA/EdF twinning arrangement was discontinued. Instead, HMGN, IDA and the
potential co-financiers for Arun III HEP concentrated on strengthening NEA's institutional capability with actions
and conditionality on the following:
*   Annual revisions and reviews of a Performance Agreement between HMGN and NEA;
*   Annual update of NEA's Corporate Plan;
*   Preparation and implementation of the following plans targeting NEA's institutional strengthening:
NEA Commercialization Plan, Materials Management Plan, Accounting Action Plan, Receivable
Action Plan, Insurance Action Plan, Loss Reduction Program, three-year rolling Investment Plan,
Annual Capital Investment Program, plan of action for NEA's computerization of its consumer
- 18 -



accounts, actuarial valuation of NEA's liabilities for staff pensions, and financing plan for these
liabilities.
Many of the above plans were prepared and their implementation, satisfactory to IDA and other prospective
co-financiers of Arun III HEP, were made conditions for that project. However, following IDA's withdrawal from
the Arun III HEP, it was difficult for IDA and the co-financiers to enforce and monitor the timely implementation
of these plans. Progress has been slow in part because of funding for required technical assistance was not
available. Since August 1995, IDA, ADB and KfW, together with HMGN and NEA, have been working on
defining and implementing many of the institutional measures and financial support has been including in other
follow up projects.
10.4NEA Central Training Facility and Training Programs
With technical assistance provided by EdF under Cr. 1 902-NEP, NEA obtained the essential elements to
manage its training activities. At the time of appraisal of PSEP, training activities were carried out at three centers:
Bhrikuti Mandap, Panauti Hydropower Station, and Balaju. Instructors for generation and maintenance,
distribution, computers, general sciences, administration and finance were at work at these centers. However,
within the NEA/EdF twinning diagnostic studies, it was determined that the lack of a central training complex was
impeding NEA from developing a sustainable training program. To address this issue, technical assistance for the
extension of NEA's ongoing training program and its broadening to cover training in management and finance
and procurement of pedagogic training equipment were included in PSEP. NEA was to acquire land and construct
a central training facility, using local and foreign design and civil engineering consultants. Later, funding of the
construction of the center was also included in PSEP.
At first, NEA opted to continue to employ EdF as its consultant for the preparation of a Training Master
Plan and design of the center and training programs. IDA agreed to NEA's proposal to negotiate a contract with
EdF. Later, IDA concluded that the scope of the contract was too broad and expensive and recommended that NEA
renegotiate the contract and restrict the scope of the services. After IDA's recommendation, EdF lost interest and
communications/negotiations took a very long time. NEA decided to break its negotiations with EdF and proceed
with the selection of consultants in accordance with a short-list. Upon IDA agreement on this last proposal, the
joint venture of Tenega Nasional Berhad of Malaysia and SILT Consultants (P.) Ltd. of Nepal was selected in
accordance with IDA Guidelines. The Consultants prepared the Training Master Plan and detailed project for the
center. However, all these activities took much longer than planned at appraisal of PSEP, and by the time Cr.
2347-NEP was closed, the construction of the center was still ongoing. Most of the equipment was delivered to
Nepal. Since then, NEA has been funding the completion of the construction and installation of the equipment. At
the time of this report, the training center was still under construction. NEA continued its training activities in its
above mentioned existing training centers.
10.5The Trishuli Incident:
On May 21, 1998, the inlet butterfly valve of Unit 1 burst suddenly, causing extensive flooding in the power
house. The valve was destroyed. Due to the flooding, all seven units of the power station were out of service for
35-50 days. The first three units (Phase 1) were commissioned in 1956, and the butterfly valves were manufactured
in a then-Yugoslav, currently-Slovene, company. Their housings were made of cast iron. The other four units
(Phase 2), manufactured in Japan, were commissioned in 1969. The housings of the butterfly valves for these units
were made of cast steel.
The conditions just prior to the incident are worth mentioning. At around 6:30pm on May 21, 1998, there was
a grid failure and the units at Trishuli tripped out . After grid resumption, the machines were operated from Unit 7
onwards and all units were put into service on the grid. Unit I was also put on load for ten minutes. During the
adjustment for load, speed and frequency variations, there was a major explosion and it was observed that major
pieces of the body of the butterfly of Unit I flung in all directions; water gushed like a fountain; and all the units
were submerged under water. Due to lack of electricity, even the top channel gates could not be operated. Only the
next morning was help received from the Devighat power plant, and the gates were closed.
- 19 -



During the rehabilitation and upgrading of the Trishuli power plant (under the Project), the butterfly valves
too were opened, cleaned and refurbished. The contractor was Multipower Hydroelectric Devwlopment Corporation
(MHDC) of China. The valve and its servomotor were checked and tested. The contractor had elected to refurbish
the valves and servomotors at site, rather than remove them to a fully equipped workshop for overhaul. The
contractors' works were supervised by the engineering consultants (CIWEC of Canada).
Following the incident, HMGNINEA fortned a joint Investigation Committee. The Chairman, Mr. Laxman
Prashad Upadhyay, Special Secretary at the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR), and the members were
appointed by MOWR. NEA went back to the Consultant's Commissioning Report and found that the Consultant
had remarked that handling by the Contractor of the valves of the first three units was not satisfactory. The
Consultant had noted that "there [was] no indication how successful the Contractor [had] been in its attempt to
return the valve bodies to their original roundness or if the bodies will continue to remain round." NEA asked the
Consultants why they had not stopped the Contractor carrying out unsatisfactory handling.
The power plant remained out of service until July 10, 1998. After dewatering, cleaning ard rechecking, the
four units of Phase 2 were put back into service with five days of intervals between each unit. The butterfly valves
of the other two units of Phase 1, whose valves had been subjected to the same "unsatisfactory handling", and those
of Unit I were replaced under a turn-key contract which included manufacture, installation, testing and
commissioning. The units were put back into operation in December 1998 with some of the components in manual
control. The full automated system control was completed in July 1999. NEA financed the repairs from its own
resources.
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                    Projeced ;Q last PSR                  ActuallLatest Estimate
Increase capacity of Trishuli to 21 MW (its   Component completed in 1995.   Power station delivers 21 MW.
original capacity).
Increase capacity of Devighat to 14 MW (its  Component completed in 1995.    Power station delivers 14 MW.
original capacity).
Increase transmission capacity in      Component completed in 1998.          The transmission capacity has been
Kathmandu Valley to 250 MVA.                                                 increased to 250 MVA.
Provide 30 MW transfer capacity between   Component completed in 1996.       NEA is able to transfer about 30 MW from
Nepal and India, over the Duhabi-Kataiya                                     Bihar, India.
line.
Develop a high-quality hydro project portfolio Screening and Ranking completed in 1996. Feasibility studies for the said seven hydro
through a Screening and Ranking process.  Feasibility studies for the seven hydro  projects were completed in December 1998.
projects identified to be completed by
December 1998.
Construct a Training Center and implement  Training Center to be completed in 1999.    Construction of the training center continues.
training programs at NEA.             Training programs not begun yet.
Implement institutional development actions Computerization of the accounting functions Computerization of the accounting, billing,
at NEA.                               to start in 1999.                      materials management functions will be
taken up under the next IDA operation.
Improve transportation capability on the  Road to be completed in June 1999.  The road was completed in June 1999.
Dumre-Besisahar road.
Build rural electrification networks in the  Rural electrification completed in 1997.  Rural electrification networks expected to be
Besisahar area.                                                             transferred to local private operation entities
by end-i 999 and 2000.
Enhance energy conservation by assisting   Assistance to local industries to be  Assistance was completed in December
local industries.                     completed in December 1998.            1998.
Install an Early Waming System against  EWS was installed in 1998.           EWS was in operation during monsoons of
GLOF dangers from Tsho Rolpa Lake.                                           1998 and 1999.
- 21 -



Output Indicators:
IndI@aterfM:tri:; x :1i_  I        Pr*@I.d ift hat i:tPR                  AttualLaest istiat
Trishuli: 21 MW.                                                             Power staticon delivers 21 MW.
Devighat: 14 MW.                                                            Power staticn delivers 14 MW.
Kathmandu Valley HV Network:250 MVA.                                        The transmission capacity has been
increased to 250 MVA.
Duhabi-Kataiya Line: 30 MW.                                                  NEA is able to transfer about 30 MW from
Bihar, India.
Completion of S & R and identification of the Feasibility and EA reports to be completed by Reports connpleted.
high-quality project portfolio.       December 1998.
Training center and programs.         Construction to continue in 1999.      Construction continues.
Institutional development at NEA -    To be initiated in 1999.              Will be undertaken under the proposed ADB
computerization.                                                            Nepal: Rural Electrification, Distribution and
Transmission Project and the IDA's
proposed Power Development Project.
Dumre-Besisahar road.                 To be completed in June 1999.         Completed in June 1999.
Rural electrification in Besisahar Area.                                    Completed in 1997.
Energy Conservation - Audits.         To be completed in December 1998.      Completed in December 1998.
Early Waming System at Tsho Rolpa Lake.                                     Completed in 1998.
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)        .
Appraisal     Actualatest   Percentage of
-Estinat        Estimate       Appraisal
Project CQst By Component              US$ millon      US$ million
A. Generation Rehabilitation                          23.60            26.30         111.4
B. High Voltage Reinforcement                         15.10            16.70         110.6
C. NEA Infiastructure/Buildings                        7.60             5.10          67.1
D. Marsyangdi Catchment Pilot Project                  9.00             5.60          62.2
E. Industrial Energy Audits and Load Management        2.60            2.10           80.8
F. Technical Assistance                               12.50             7.00            56
Total Baseline Cost                                   70.40           115.40
Physical Contingencies                                8.80
Price Contingencies                                   9.40     _
Total Project Costs               88.60          115.40
Interest during construction    11.50
Total Financing Required              100.10           115.40
Project Costs by Procuremen Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurenwt Method
Expw m -Catwy   N              Oiher           N.B,F.                       Total Cost
1. Works                    14.20         8.80         0.00          1.00        24.00
(12.70)      (7.80)        (0.00)      (0.00)        (20.50)
2. Goods                    33.30         0.00         0.00         9.50         42.80
(30.00)       0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (30.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         16.90        4.90         21.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (14.50)      (0.00)       (14.50)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00         0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     47.50         8.80        16.90         15.40        88.60
(42.70)      (7.80)       (14.50)       (0.00)       (65.00)
- 23 -



Project Costs byPocuremnt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement MethodI
Expendkure Cateory            Ic            NCB          Other           N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                         14.20           8.20          0.00           0.00           22.40
(11.50)         (7.40)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (18.90)
2. Goods                         27.70           0.00          0.00            0.00           27.70
(24.90)         (0.00)        (0.00)      _  (0.00)         (24.90)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00          12.70           0.00           12.70
(0.00)         (0.00)        (12.70)         (0.00)         (12.70)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00          0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                        41.90            8.20          12.70          0.00            62.80
(36.40)         (7.40)        (12.70)         (0.00)        (56.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs includ. contingencies.
7'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to: (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Co  ponent (in US$ million equivalent)
I                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage Of APPnaiSal
| AppraisalLEstimate         ActualLatEstimate
B|n       Govt       COF.      Bank       Govt.        COI   Bank   Govt.  COF.
Project Total            65.00      20.40     14.70      56.50      6.30               86.9   30.9   0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
- 24-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
At appraisal, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was estimated for: (a) NEA's investment program
(time-slice for FY92 - FY2002, over an operation period of 30 years); and (b) the rehabilitation of the
Trishuli-Devighat power plants.
Economic Internal Rate of Return for NEA Investment Program:
*   At appraisal, the EIRR for the FY92-FY2002 time-slice was calculated as 2.4 percent without
taking into account consumer surplus, and 18.1 percent after taking into account the said consumer
surplus.
*   The said time-slice included the construction of the Arun III HEP.
*   Since the decision to defer this project, NEA's investment program has been substantially changed.
*   Thus, in the ICR, an EIRR for the revised time-slice was calculated.
*   The EIRR for the revised time-slice was computed as 12 percent, without taking into account
consumer surplus. As the EIRR is greater than 10 percent, another computation taking into
account consumer surplus was not undertaken.
Economic Internal Rate of Return for the Upgrading of the Trishuli-Devighat power plants:
*  At appraisal, the EIRR for the rehabilitation of the Trishuli-Devighat power plants was calculated
as 23 percent for firm energy only.
*  On the same basis, the EIRR for this component was calculated as 16 percent using actual tariffs
paid.
- 25 -



Economic Internal Rate of Return for NEA Investment Program (Time-Slice Analysis):
Millions NRs
FY Years         Total  Incremental   Incremental   Incremental   Incremental
Invest.      Invest.         O&M       Total Cost  Sales (GWh)    Sales Rev.   Net Benefits
199211993         1206              0           1206              0              0          -1206
199311994         1477              0           1477              0              0         -1477
199411995         1378              0           1378              0              0          -1378
1995/1996         2382             31          2413             112            554          -11359
1996/1997         2290             61          2351             186            919          -1432
1997/1998          845            401           1246            232          1147            -100
1998/1999         1432            276           1708            300          1483            -225
1999/2000                         276            276            300          1855           1579
2000/2001                         276            276            300           1855           1579
2001/2002                         276            276            300           1855           1579
200212003                         276            276            300           1855           1,579
2003/2004                         276            276            300           1855           1579
2004/2005                         276            276            300           1855           1 579
2005/2006                         276            276            300           1855           1,579
2006/2007                         276            276            300           1855           1 579
2007/2008                         276            276            300           1855           1 1579
2008/2009                         276            276            300           1855           1579
2009/2010                         276            276            300           1855           1579
2010/2011                         276            276            300           1855           1 579
2011/2012                         276            276            300           1855           1579
201212013                         276            276            300           1855           15 79
2013/2014                         276            276            300           1855           1E79
2014/2015                         276            276            300           1855           1579
2015/2016                         276            276            300           1855           1579
2016/2017                         276            276            300           1855           1579
2017/2018                         276            276            300           1855           1579
2018/2019                         276            276            300           1855           1579
2019/2020                         276            276            300           1855           1579
2020/2021
2021/2022
202212023
2023/2024
2024/2025
202512026
2026/2027
EIRR                    12%
Major Assumptions:
Analysis approach followed Project appraisal to the extent possible.
Economic analysis based on incremental cost and benefit streams associated with the time-slice.
Financial capital costs were converted to economic costs by deducting transfer of payments (taxes, import duties), and
local component cost was adjusted by standard 0.9.
O&M costs were derived as 2% of capital costs.
Benefits were evaluated on the basis of incremental sales valued at NRs 4.941kWh for the years 1992-93 to 2000, and
beyond that at NRs 6.18/kWh (held constant for the life of the Project) in line with the recent tariff increase announced in
November, 1999.
The taiffs for the period 1992-2000 refled actual prices paid by consumers of power.
ogt and henefit treams are in constant 1995 NRs arived at bv usino GDP defatom
- 26 -



Economic Enternal Rate of Retumn for the Up2rading of the Trishuli-Devi hat power plants:
US$ Millions Equivalent
Benefits
Incremen.            Total            Net
FY Years   Invest.   O&M    Total Cost  Firm GWh  Revenue  Revenue
1993                    7.7                            7.7                                             -7.7
1994                  11.9                            11.9                                           -11.9
1995                  10.3                            10.3                                           -10.3
1996                    6.0         0.3                6.3              81.0             6.0           -0.3
1997                    1.4         0.3                1.7              81.0             7.0            5.4
1998                                0.3                0.3              81.0             6.0            5.7
1999                                0.3                0.3              81.0             5.9            5.6
2000                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2001                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2002                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2003                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2004                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2005                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2006                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2007                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2008                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2009                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2010                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2011                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2012                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2013                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2014                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2015                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2016                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2017                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2018                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2019                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2020                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2021                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2022                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2023                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2024                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2025                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
2026                                0.3                0.3              81.0             7.1            6.8
EIRR                  16%
Major Assumptions:
Analysis approach followed Project appraisal to the extent possible.
Economic analysis based on incremental cost and benefd streams associated with the Trishuli Project.
Incremental O&M coats were estimated at 0.75% of incremental capital cost
Financial capital costs were converted to economic costs by deducting transfer of payments (taxes, import duties), and local component
cost was adjusted by standard 0.9.
Benefds were calculated as incremental firm energy output valued at the actual average tariff paid prevaifng at that particular year.
Beyond 2000, average tariff was kept constant in real terms.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty             Performnce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implem,zntation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/89                              E/SP, E, FA, RS
3/90                                E/SP, E, FA, RS
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appr.: 6/90                        E/SP, RS, IDS, SCS, NRE,
Post: 12/90                        EE
Post:12/90                ~~~~~E/SP, FA, E, RS
Nego.: 5/91                         E/SP, FA, E,RS
Post N:7/91                         E/SP, FA, RS
P.N.: 11/91                        FA
Board: 4/92
Pre-Eff: 1 1/92                    E/SP, FA
Supervision
5/93                              E/SP, E, FA, RS
10/93                             E, FA
8/94                              E
4/95                              E (2)
11/95                             E (2)                                U                 U
3/96                               E (3), FA (2), Law, EnS, RS         U                  U
6/96                              E (3), EnS, FA                        S                 S
10/96                             E, FA, EnS, RS                       S                  S
2/97                              E, FA, EnS (2), RS                   S                  S
7/97                              E, FA, EnS                           S                  S
12/97                             E, FA                                S                  S
10/98                             E, IS                                S                 U
ICR
2/99                               E
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               50.5                       111.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                     117                       334.1
Supervision                             167.6                       525.3
ICR                                       0.2                          1.8
Total                                   335.3                         973
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                            O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
FSector Policies                           OH  O SU * M  O N  O NA
F Physical                                 * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Financial                                OH OSUOM ON ONA
 Institutional Development                0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
OEnvironmental                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
F Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
0 Other (Please specify)
Z Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
F Public sector management                 0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
FS Lending                                        OHS *S  OU  OHU
E Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU  OHU
X Overall                                         OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
F Preparation                                     OHS IDs  O u  O HU
X Government implementation performance           O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance               O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
1 Overall                                          OHS Os  O U  O HU
These ratings are based on an overall assessment, in some instances they have been qualified in the text
The U project development objective rating given during the last supervision mission was primarily based
on the reluctance at the time of Government to increase tariffs. As explained in the text, a significant tariff
increase occured in November. This is the reason that the rating in the ICR has been upgraded.
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Trishuli-Devighat Hydropower Upgrading Project - Project Completion Report, prepared by CIWEC for
NEA, CIWEC Report No. 005704, December 1995: Volume I - Civil Works Contract. (Bank Archives
Document Nr. F 221522).
2. Trishuli-Devighat Hydropower Upgrading Project - Project Completion Report, prepared by CIWEC for
NEA, CIWEC Report No. 005704, December 1995: Volume II - Electrical and Mechanical Equipment
Contract. (Bank Archives Document Nr. F 221523).
3. Trishuli-Devighat Hydropower Upgrading Project - Summary Completion Note, prepared by NEA,
February 1999.
4. Kathmandu Valley High Voltage Reinforcement Project - Completion Report, prepared by Tata
Consulting Engineers for NEA.
5.NEA Central Workshop - Summary Completion Report, prepared by NEA.
6.NEA Computerized Billing Project (Status as of January 1999) - Status Report, prepared by NEA,
February 1999.
7. NEA Training Center Establishment Project (Status as of December 1998) - Status Report, prepared by
NEA.
8. NEA Training Center Establishment Project - Training Master Plan, prepared by Tenaga Nasional,
Malaysia, Silt Consultants (P) Ltd., Nepal, and Architects Module (P) Ltd., Nepal.
9. NEA Medium Hydropower Study Project (Status as of February 1999) - Status Note, prepared by NEA,
February 1999.
10. NEA Headquarter Facilities Project - Completion Report, prepared by NEA, January 1999.
11. Kathmandu Valley High Voltage Reinforcement Project - Initial Environmental Examination for
Overhead Lines - Land Acquisition and Compensation, prepared by Electricite de France for NEA, no date
given. (Bank Archives Document Nr. F 51053)
12. Tsho Rolpa GLOF Early Warning System - Brief Project Report, prepared by the Department of
Hydrology and Meteorology (DHM), Ministry of Science and Technology, HMGN, January 1999.
13. Tsho Rolpa GLOF Early Warning System - Final Completion Report, prepared by BC Hydro
International Limited, Canada, for DHM, December 1998.
14. Report on the Visit of an Expert from the Tata Consulting Engineers to Trishuli Hydro Power Station,
at Nepal Regarding Problems Observed on the 1300mm Butterfly Valves and Bursting of Unit I Butterfly
Valve, prepared by Tata Consulting Engineers, July 1998.
15. Industrial Energy Management Project - Final Report - May-December 1998, prepared by the
Intemational Resources Group, of USA for the Office of Energy Efficiency Services, Ministry of Industry,
HMGN; December 1998.
- 31 -



- 32 -



'00 04/22  15:30    fl225112                     WORLD BANK                                      Z02
HIS MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL
MINISTRY OF AlTER RESOURCES
Tel :  228923, 22R04"
226796,227654
0' s fSzFay:  +977.1-227536
-fteisr - .vy . 'f  .,r,se           Silngha Durbar
Ref. A,,)i/4'6f  5  _    4            r                                  Kathmandu. Nepal
Dote:
Q    ..j 2W -D9-tate: I S April 2000
The World Bank
'Hote1 Yak and Yeti Co=p2ex
Kathmandu
Dear Sir/Madam,
Please find enclosed herewith the Borrower's pvaluatiotn Report qf Power Sector
Efficiency Project as received from Nepat Electricity Authority.
With Regards.
Sincerely Yours,
(S. K. Shamna)                                               -        -;t x _, -
S. D.. 
'4-"



'00 04/24  15:31    U'225112                  WORLD BA                                     i003
-,
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Borrower's EvaluatiQil Reuort
The evaluation report covers only the part of the Power Sector Efficiency Projecr related
to the NEA activities.
The evaluation is centered around two-aspect (O) whether the project has achieved the
objectives and (ii) the lesson learned during the implementation of the project. It also
touchea upon its Own perforiance a.s wcll dS thC ptfuiuItIUIt of che Bank duringu the
implementation of the project.
The objeLtives set were (i) increase the supply capacity; (ii) improve NEFA's financial
viability and strengthen its institutional performance;(ii) develop a hia;h quality pipeline
of hydropower projects
With the upgrading anid refurbishing of the Trisuli and Devighat hydroelectric plants
about 14 MW of generation was added and with the reinforcement oF the high voltage
network in the Kathinandu valley, the supply capacity Increased from 160 MVA to 250
WlA. The Borrowcr hence believes that the objective of increasing the supply capacity
11d.S b1Ce  I1IL.
The financial perfornance has been mixed during the project In FY 1996/97 the rate of
return on revealed assets increased from 0.2% in FY 1992/93 to 4.3% and self-financing
ration increased to 38%. The level of account reccivable remained about 3 Tnonths of
sales equivalent. Althoug these figures could not be sustained because of the ovcrdue
tariff adjustment, the financial indicators have not been unsatisfactory. The situation is
improving with the recent tariff adjustment.
Since the PSEP started, there has becn chancr:d in the formation of the Board with the
introduction.of greater number of members from outside the government. With the
creation of profit ceners in distribution. NEA has taken one step further towards
autonomous functioning of its core business and commercialization of i1rs function will be
achieved. However, the objective to train more staff by creating adequate Tn-house
capability wras not fully met because of the failure to make the traning center operative in
time caused by the termination of PSEP loan in half way through. One of the major
achievement of the project has been the creation of the inventory of Nigh quality projects
with due consideration not only to the technical and economical aspects but also the
environment and social aspecLs. The screening and ranking study has culminaTed in the
feasib ility iLudies of seven lydro power projects of different sizes.
To sum up the performance against the objective is satisfactory.



'00 04/24  15:32    V225112                  WORLD BANK                                  Z1004
Lesson learnt, which could be used to improve the inmplementation of future projects are,
There had been considerable delay in the Board Presentation and Loan effective from the
date of appraisal of the project. This is largely due to the acceptance of unmanageable
number of conditionally without due consideration to the time and capacity to comply
with the conditionalities. It would have been more prudent to clarify the issues and reach
to a suisfactory solution before and during loan negotiation. The conditionaliries for the
Loan Effeectiveness should be kept at minimum  so as to avoid uncertainties in
implementation of a project.
The commitmnent for any component of a project should ensure that that pan is fully
financed. Wf it is not possible for any reason, such project component should not be raken
up. The case of computerization of accounting and billing and metering systems is a
classic example of such project.
Advance procurement activities are necessary for timely completion of a projects as has
been the case with Trisuli-Devighat component of the project.
More ia-counuy expertise should be used in order to reflect the local condition in cosI
estimate of a project. It is the considered opinion of the borrower that except for few
components of the project such as Training Centre, overall the sustainability of tlhe
project is sauisfactory.
Borrower had. provided competent team of Project Coordinator. and Project Managers.and
their performances considered to be satisfactory. However, because of the absence of
environmental regulation at the time of project implementation, in some cases, the
execution of some project components had been hampered. The preparation of thc project
by NEA is considered to be satisfa.ctory.
The PSEP was diversified and had too many components cranmmed together. At least four
agencies were involved in the project, which might lhave been difficult for the Bank to
coordinate. However, with the eleven supervisory missions fielded during the project
lifetime, the overall performnance of the Bank is considered to be satisfactory.



00 05/02  1:05        V2Z5112                       WORLD BANRK      R e'.                            i(]002
%~ ~~-T s                                  t 12 .
6  His Mla     '% nvernment                         Pax  977-1-262993
199&9w%-                  ~~~~~Tel.  2126000(Direct)
Minist                      Iad Transport                         262693)
Dep metrd   Road!; Es   r4?mc& mnp
Foreign   Boeprq,tB?an                                   Babar Mahal, Kathmandu
Ref. No-  -o                      (;    ;9
Date: May 2,2000
Country Diector                                                             02  MA1Y 200
The World Bank
Hotel Yak & Yeti Complex
Kathmansdu
Atta:  Mr. S. G. Joshi, Consultantergy and ifasttrs
Dear Sir,
Subject: _SE__Cr-2347-__EP)_Drgl_CR mre  R__i____ofs !&Gc
I an please to have the opportunity to go through the draft ICR prepared by tLe Bank and have
(ollowiag minor comments concerning to the component executed by DOR.
(1)    6 Susoalzability
HMGN has started sustinable Road Maintenance Scheme by introducinzg Road Fund Act
2000. Currently, Dumr - Besishabar Road is already under the ambrella of SMD
(StraigEhened Maintenance Division) and reguIar maintenance has been started since the issue
of contract .vise taldng over cerEificate.
()      6 2-B  Transition arrangement to regular operation
Tough overall 1EMGN regular budgetary provisions made for the road maintename i3 not
upto the expecation yet, DOR gives it's high priority to maintain and opente Bank financed
projct. We appreciate the concern expressed by tha Banlk re.arding this matr and assure to
take due care on regular mainteahnce of the Road, wthich wil be properly addressed after
Road Fund being operational,
7.6    Implomenting Agendes
Initially, procurement of works and services was started and completed in time. UnforrunateIy,
during the process of implementation, out of five contracts two contbacts have to be
tenminated due to fi-audulent evidence found on the part of rwo contractors. To discouragc
these practies. togehr with the Bank DOR has terminated two contracts. It has been realized
that it is good for the Institutional development of construction industries heace re-tendeing
and award of contracts have been carried out of the two contracts. We appreciate tho Bank's
ficxible attiudc to attai' . :1be desired objectives of the project. However, the evaluation of
the Bank about DOR's performance marginally satisfactory is not justifled simce the
committed works have been cormpleted 100% and accordingly the expenditure has been donc.
Hence we humbly request you to reconsider the rating of DOR's performace.
Thanling you
Sincerel Yo
....    ...
(M. G.M      ).
Deputy Dirctor Gcncral
YTtJIi   .,, .,,,....



'00 04/11  14:Z24   S2Z5112             WORLD B.ANK                             J002
4                                                             11 APR 29DB
Gov~~~nent                r ~2-29=0
f()    *                       nzHis Majesty's  ovW       Nepal                 Z-4243
~~~'  -, ~~~~~2-2h686
MINISTJIIYOFAIfUSTRY                                   2>-4174
2-45246
Ref No-.                                                                  2-' 24676
Singbadurbar, K mandu
NEPAL.
Date:
April 10, 2000
The World Bank
4;atmandia Co-antry Ofice ._
IAI Durbar
Katwnandu, Nepal
Kind Attn: Mr. Suredra Govnda Jashi                           .
Dear Mr. Joshi, 
N-EPAL: Power Sector Efflclency Prject f C: 2347 - NEM?
Draft Inplemofltation C2mpletioe Report tic)
Thanks for your Implementation CompSeton Report oD the above project
A3 our compneU 1l htdustrmid Ervgy Audim has been compled safsfatzily
according to your ratings also, tiere is no futher comments on the above
CompletiDn Report from our side. The proect is continuing to provide some
services in eneg efflciency improvement to the industres with HMG Budget of
fths Mavstr.
Thanling you.
Sincerly,
,Kalyan B. Pradhan)
Joint Secuxetry



'00 03/31  17:14    '225112                    WORLD BANK                                       002
His Majesty's                                               2   3rnmentof Nepal  2zL74
Ministry of Science & Technology                                 248a8
DEPMTMOf OF HYDROLOGY & MEOIUY   Fax No.: t-
P.O. Box: 405 rw 3525
-  -                   Sabar Mahud, XaWwwavdu
NEPAL
Narch 30Q 2000
To,
The World Bank
K.atfnandu Country Ofce
Lal Durbar, Ya & Yeti Hotel Complex
Katb1mndu Nepal
A1u: Tjaarda P. Ston vam Lc=uwcn
TeamLeader, Nepal
South Asia Encrgy Sector Unit.
Sub:  Evalua_ion of the Tsho Rolpa EWS svstenu
Please fnd the attached evaluaaion reporz of the project as per your request
lette dated 29 February 2000.
With best ragards,
Sincerely,
Seoior Diviisional HIydlogist
Department of Hvdrology and Meteotlogy
Kabamudu



'00 03/31  17:14    0225112                   WORLD BANK                                  l 003
ht5S5 1 .
Tsho Rolpa GLOF Early Warning System Project
Evaluation of the Project
1.    Borrower's Assessment
a)   Proiect Obiective
The Primary objective of this system is to provide early Warning about the
Glacier Lake Outburst Flood to the people residing in the potential GLOF hit area
alaog Rolwaling and Tama Kosbi Valley% ax well as Khimi Hydr Project In ihis
regard, Installation of Early Warning System (includig Sensor, Rclay and
Warning Statios ia Rolwaling and Tarrakosi Valcy of Central Decvlopmet
Region and Master Station at Dh.angadi of Par Wcstem Development Region of
Nepal) has been carried out Altogether, ther are 19 Warning Stations. 3 Relay, 2
Sensor stations and 2 DMC stations of Eariy Waniing System in Roiwaling and
T-rta Koshi Valley. Two DMC stations are at Kathmiando and Khimti.
b)   Desion
The overall objective for the design of the GLOF warning system was to
provide a safe, secure, reliable warrLing to the dowustroam villges in as shiat a
tnie as possible. The inent had baen to only usc Meteor Burst to relay the
wamng signal from the sensors to a Master Station and then back to the wazning
stations in die flood plain It was concluded that there were many  more villaps to
warn that originally assuned. It was then decided to use the faster sinal
tranmission capabilities to Extend Line Of Sight (ELOS) embedded within
Meteor Burst A Meteor Burst Commurdnation (MBC) network provides long
rangc conununications, up to 1,000 riles, by reflecting radio signals off the
ionized trails left by miern matenmr as they entar the earth'r. atmosphero. A4t the
shorter range (30 -50 miles) communication is by ELOS usig ground wav.
These two modes of operation are scamlcss zand automatic withn an MC
network, thereby providing an additional level of redulancy for communicating
a warning message to all villages within Tsho Rolpa networfk The design is
broken into four types of components. GLOF sensing stations located just below
Tsho Rolpa; GLOF warnig stations located at the villages; data management
cenrers (DMC) to monitor system pcrformance; and a Meteor Burst master
station.
c) Tmnlementatiot,:
Tho Taho izolpa networL; is faily auto tcL IL ii mwniLored amd controlled
fomn Department of Hydrology and Moteorology. One of the DMC station at



'00 03/31  17;:15    S225112                  WORLD BANI                                    Z 004
Khlimti is specially for Yhimti Hydroelectric ProjCCL Data mancrmen and
Contl (DMC) application software is installed on PC workstations at each of
these location at which all network furctions and messages are monitored,
displayed and archivcd. This provides a full playback capability at any tima for
post analyses of all events that may havc occurred in tae network, including self-
test results, messages, flood alerts and the status of the sesaors at the moraine
dam- In addioion, commands may bc sciLt tu cach station individUa13y or
collectivelv to the entirc networkc. Ihese commands includc system ARM, system
DISARM, flood test messages. reporting intetvals and network cormectivity
changes.
d)  Opgrtion EXpe_nce:
EWS system is completely new for Nepal. Equipment used in the systzm is
highly sophisticated and Iore complex in. technical parts. Shori training and basic
knowledge gained from the field are not enough to maintain the system smoothly.
However. we arc maintainxing the system yct.
At present DHM is moniriiiT the system formx  KathrLadu DMC. When any
abnor=al data is found, DHM staff are visiting the site and find out the fault and
repair it. But evcry problemr in the clectonics parts sometimes caused problem to
repair thIem propcrly. Only minor problem can be repairecL Sufficient spare parts
ad repaLfr training of Meteor Burst equipment are necessazy for smooth operation
of the system.
Warning system can be used at other potential GLOF sites. The flexibiliLy of the
componcnts of the warning systemr will help to meet Nepal's needs for remote
data gathering for weather, strcam flow, landslides, glaciology and for nmtessage
capability to and from remote areas. Ihc system can ; u uscd for remotc data
gathering :messaging and vehicIe/aircrafrtrekk-ing party locatioiL Over 1000
remotc stations can be serviced by one Master Station.
2. Evaluation of Borrower's own uerformance:
Ihe EWS system is working normally at present. Without te operation
and maintenance of the systen, it is difficult to sustail such highlY technical
system to makc operation normal. A the tine of installation of EWS, only few
spare parts were madc available which are not sufEicicnt for having timnely
maintenance. Training in Rkard level exchange and repair of the Meteor BuTrt
equipment is esscutial.



'00 03/31  17:18    V225112                 WORLD BANK                                  Qo005
3. Evaluation of Bank Performance:
In close co-operation with the World Bank, D}IM has been able to
implement the project on time. Before and dunng the period of project
implementation, DI-IM had received full t-,operation from the World Bank staff
of Kathmandu, without whose support aad valuable advises this project would not
have been sucvessfuUy carried out.
The overall performance of thG bank is satisfactory.



