Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  9077-NEP Type: (SAR)
O'LEARY, D/ X80408 / D-9059/ ASlIE                    4ePOrt No. 9077-NEi
STAFF APPRAISL REPORT
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCy PROJECT
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
Energy & Infrastructure Divisio
Cuntry Department I
South Asia Region
i  O  m n   s    



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Nepalese Rupee (NRs)       =      100 Nepalese Paise
US$1.0 (July 1991)                  NRs 42.7 (Official Rate)
=      NRs 42.7 (Free Market Rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilovolt (kV)              =      1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilowatt (kW)              =      1,000 watts (W)
1 Megawatt (MW)              =      1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 Kilowatt - hour (kWh)      =      1,000 watt - hnurs (Wh)
1 Megawatt - hour (M7Jh)     =      1,000 kilowatt - hours (kWh)
X Gigawatt - hour (GWh)             1,000,000 kilowatt - hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     - Asian Development Bank
ADB/N   - Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AHP     - Arun Hydroelectric Project
BSEB    -  Bihar State Electricity Board
CIDA    - Canadian International Development Agency
DOR     - Department of Roads
EA      - Environmental Assessment
EAU     -  Energy Audit Unit
EIRR    - Economic Internal Rate of Return
FINNIDA -  Finnish International Development Agency
GOI     -  Government of India
HMG/N   -  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IDC     -  Interest During Construction
JICA    - Japanese International Cooperation Agency
LCB     - Local Competitive Bidding
LRP     - Loss Reduction Program
MCMPP   - Marsyangdi Catchment Management Pilot Project
MFE     - Ministry of Forests and Environment
MHPP    - Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Power Plant
MOI     - Ministry of Industry
MOWR    - Ministry of Water Resources
NCL     - Nepal Coal Limited
NEA     -  Nepal Electricity Authority
NOC     -  Nepal Oil Corporation
OECF    - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PC      -  Performance Contract
SCF     -  Standard Conversion Factor
SLA     -  Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SOE     -  Statement of Expenditure
T&D     -  Transmission & Distribution
WtP     - Willingness to Pay
Fiscal Year
July 16 to July 15
All years refer to the Gregorian Calendar



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiary:             Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA)
Amount:                  SDR 48.1 million (US$65.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard, with 40 years maturity.
OnlendinR Terms:         Out of US$65 million, the Government would onlend
US$ 60.8 million to NEA at a rate of 10.25Z for a
period of 20 years, including a grace period of
5 years; the remaining US$4.2 million covering energy
conservation and catchment management would be passed
on as grants to the Ministries of Industry and Works
and Transport. HMGlN would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project Description:    The project would include:  (a) rehabilitation of the
35 MW Trisuli and Devighat hydroelectric plants;
(b) reirnforcement/ upgrading of the existing
transmission and distribution system in the Kathmandu
valley including provisions for spares, equipment and
tools, and construction of a 132 kV interconnection
with India to upgrade power exchange capabilities; (c)
provision of equipment for NEA's headquarter offices,
a training centre and centrally located worksAops;
(d) provision of technical assistance to the Ministry
of Industry to assist local industries in identifying
energy conservation measures; and (e) implementation
of the Marsyangdi Catchment Management Pilot Plan,
including: (i) soil conservation and sediment control;
(ii) upgrading of the Dumre-Besisahar road; and (iii)
rural electrification in the Marsyangdi valley.
Technical assistance in the form of consulting
services to assist HMG/N and NEA in implementation and
training of Nepalese technical staff would be provided
with each project component as well as to improve the
effectiveness of NEA's management, train higher level
and support staff and improve billing.
Benefits:                Benefits would include meeting forecast electricity
demand at least cost, resource savings from increased
operating efficiencies, restoration/enhancement of
lost capacity and reduced system losses, deferral of
investments due to extension of power plant life and
rei.iforcement of existing substations, improved
reliability and quality of electricity supply, and
NEA's institutional strengthening, particularly in
finance, manpower planning and training. In addition,
the Marsyangdi catchment management component would
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
extend the useful life of the hydroelectric project
investment through developing sustainable approaches
to catchment soil conservation and cediment erosion
which could eventually be expanded to other catchments
upstream of other existing and planned hydropower
projects.
Risks:                   No unusual technical risks are foreseen for the
project's power components. The main risks concern
project implementation delays and NEA's continut.d weak
financial performance. These risks have been
mitigated by requiring appointment of supervisory
consultants and signature of the Performance Contract
between HMG/N and NEA prior to credit effectiveness;
providing for effective project management by NEA and
consultants, and continued close attention to
implementing measures to enhance NEA's cost recovery.
With respect to the remaining components, the major
issue concerns the Marsyangdi catchment management
soil conservation and sediment reduction program. The
approach used depends on the willingness of farmers to
adopt new land management systems for marginal forest
grazing land. Given the pilot nature of the project,
its very modest scale and the fact that other
approaches to soil conservation in Nepal have proved
ineffective, the risk is acceptable.



iii
Estimated Cost: P/
Local    Foreign    Total
------(US$ million)-
A.  Generatic.a Rehabilitation                            3.4        20.?     23.6
B.  HV Reinforcement                                      2.2        12.9     15.1
C.  NEA Infrastructure/Buildings                          2.1         5.5       7.6
D.  Marsyangdi Catchment Management Plan                  2.4         6.6      9.0
E.  Industrial Energy Audits                              0.2         2.4      2.6
F.  Technical Assistance                                  0.7        11.8     12.5
Base Cost                                           11.0        59.4      70.4
Physical Contingencies                                    2.1         6.8      8.9
Price Contingencies                                       3.4         5.9      9.3
Total Project Cost a/                               16.5        72.1      88.6
Interest during Construction                             11.5                 11.5
Total Finances Required                             28.0        72.1    100.1
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
------(USS million)-
IDA                                                       6.3        58.7     65.0
Cofinancing                                               1.3        13.4     14.7
HMG/N                                                     1.6                   1.6
NEA                                                      18.8                 18.8
Total                                                    28.0        72.1    100.1
_===    ==_==    5==~==
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
-----------------US$ Million---------------
IDA FY                             92       93      94       95       96      97
Annual                            7.8    20.7    17.0    14.3        3.2     2.0
Cumulative                        7.8    28.5    45.5    59.8    63.0    65.0
Economic Rate of Return: 18Z.
Maps:
IBRD 22331
IBRD 22780
a/ The total cost net of taxes and duties (US$4.0 million) is US$84.6 million.



iv
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       i
I.  ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER SUBSECTOR   . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
A.  Sectoral Importance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
B.  Energy Resources and Supply   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       I
C.  Energy Consumption  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
D.  Organization of the Energy Sector   . . . . . . . . . . .       3
E.    Energy  Pricing    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
F.  HMG/N's Energy Sector Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5
G.  Bank Group Involvement in the Power Subsector   . . . . .       5
H.  Cofinancing and Donor Coordination  . . . . . . . . . . .       7
II.  THE  BENEFICIARY  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  8
A.  Organization, Management and Staffing   . . . . . . . . .       8
B.  Upgrading NEA's Operational Efficiency  . . . . . . . . .      8
C.  Financial Organizati-n, Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . .      10
D. Training ..........                                            12
E. Existing Facilities .13
F.  Power System Planning   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     14
G. System Losses .15
III. THE PROJECT .16
A. Background .16
B.  Project Objectives                                            16
C.  Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      16
D. Project Cost .18
E.  Project Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     18
F.  Project Engineering and Status of Preparation   . . . . .     19
G.  Project Implementation  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Nepal in
July 1990. Mission members included Messrs. Donal O'Leary (Mission Leader),
Werner Dobisch (Hydropower Engineer), Somin Mukherji (Financial Analyst),
Salem Ouahes (Sr. Power Engineer), Agustin Alberti (Training Consultant),
B. N. Acharya (Consultant Institutional Analyst), Brian Carson (Consultant on
Soil Conservation), John Davis (Consultant Financial Analyst), Lionel Maistre
(Consultant, Energy Economist), Frank Peacock (Consultant Agricultural
Economist) and Tod Ragsdale (Consultant on Environment/Resettlement).
Production of the Report was supervised by Bruce Mitchell. The Peer Reviewers
were Joseph Gilling (Sr. Economist), Etienne Linard (Sr. Power Engineer) and
Alfonso Mejia (Principal Financial Analyst).



v
Page No.
H.  Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                21
T,-  Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               23
J.  Development Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                23
K.  Project Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                24
L.  Risks     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  25
IV.   FINANCE   .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .    .  .  .    .  .    .  .    .    .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
A.  NEA's Financial Data Base   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                26
B.  NEA's Past Performance and Present Position   . . . . . .                28
C.  Tariffs   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  31
D. F4-nancial Recovery.                  . . . . . . . . . . . . .           32
E.  NEA's Future Financial Performance  . . . . . . . . . . .                34
F.  Rural Electrification   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                36
G. Evaluation Committee .36
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .36
A,  Electricity Demand Forecasts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                36
B.  Least Cost Alternative  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  37
C.  Economic Rate of Return   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  38
D.  Sensitivity Analysis  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  39
E.  Justification for Bank Group Involvement  . . . . . . . .                39
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 39



vi
ANNEXES
1.1  NEPAL:  Energy Balance for FY 1987/1988 . . . . . . . . . . . .
1.2  NEPAL: Fuel Prices:  1975-1990 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1.3  NEPAL: Past & Present NEA Tariffs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.1  NEA Organization Chart  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.2  Action Plan for Upgrading NEA's Operational Efficiency  . . . .
2.3  NEA Interconnected System - Existing Generating Plants  . . . .
2.4  NEA Transmission System ....................
2.5  NEA's System Loss Reduction Action Plan . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.6  Typical Daily Load Curve for the Nepal Interconnected System  .
3.1  Details of Power Sector Efficiency Component  . . . . . . . . .
3.2  Description of the Marsyangdi Catchment Management Plan . . . .
3.3  Description of the Energy Audit Program . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.4  Detailed Cost Estimate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.5  Project Implementation Organizational Chart . . . . . . . . . .
3.6  Implementation Schedules  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.7  Disbursement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.8  Financing Plan by Project Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4.1  Assumptions for Financial Projections . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4.2  Summary Investmrent Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4.3  NEA Actual and Forecast Income Statements . . . . . . . . . . .
4.4  NEA Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds
Statements  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .   .
4.5  NEA A_tual and Forecast Balance Sheets  . . . . . . . . . . . .
4.6  NEA Monitoring Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.1  Historical Growth in Demand, Energy Generation and Energy Sales
5.2  Number of Consumers Categorywise  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.3  Detailed Demand Forecast  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.4  NEA Interconnected System - Generation Capacity and Energy
Forecast Categorywise ....................
5.5  NEA Interconnected System - Generation Capacity and Maximum
Demand  Forecast   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
5.6  Project Economic Analysis Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.7  Time Slice EIRR for the NEA Investment Program  . . . . . . . .
5.8  Rehabilitation/Upgrading o, the Trisuli-Devighat Plants;
Estimation  of  EIRR    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
6.1  Data and Documents in the Project File  . . . . . . . . . . . .
IBRD MAPS: Nos. 22331 and 22780



NEPhL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. ENEflGY SECTOR AND POWER SUBSECTOR
A. Sectoral Importance
1.01        The development of Nepal's abundant hydroelectric resources
(estimated at 83,000 MW) is a key component of the country's development strategy
particularly in view of the rapid depletion of its forests, its only other
indigenous fuel source. The efficient development of Nepal's hydroelectric
resources can contribute not only to meeting its internal power needs but through
developing a surplus trade balance in conventional energy (fossil fuels and
electricity) and mobilizing resources to address Nepal's development needs.
However, local resource shortages, caused by underpricing of electricity, coupled
with weak institutional capacity, have frustrated the achievement of power
subsector performance targets. Further, in the past, unreliable power supply
constrained economic growth, and only 9? of the population has access to
electricity. In spite of these shortcomings, His Majesty's Government of Nepal
(HMG/N) has accorded high priority to the power subsector's development,
allocating approximately 312 of all external assistance for power since FY83.
Given the power sector's importance to the economy, this high level of allocation
is expected to continue through FY2000.
B. Energy Resources and Supply
1.02        Nepal's main energy resources are fuelwood and hydropower.
Agricultural residues are widely used for cooking and heating. Biogas potential
is high because of the large livestock population. The solar energy potential
also seems technically promising, and there may be some scope for utilizing wind
energy, although data are lacking. There are no known oil or coal commercial
deposits; thus all fossil fuels are imported. About 6Z of total energy supply is
from commercial resources (hydroelectricity, petroleum and coal). In FY88
domestic hydroelectricity accounted for about 2.2Z of total energy supplies and
imported sources (including hydroelectricity) for about 4.2?.
1.03        Fuelwood accounts for approximately 712 of total energy supplies.  It
is the basic energy source for cooking and heating in rural areas, where the vast
majority of the population lives. Forests cover some 382 of the total land area
and are fairly evenly distributed. Fuelwood consumption, currently over four
million tonnes of oil equivalent (TOE) a year, exceeds the forests' sustainable
annual yield. If present trends continue, the forests will be largely exhausted
by the year 2000; this is leading to growing fuelwood shortages and hardship in
rural areas. Government fuelwood policy is to reverse deforestation by taking
action on both supply and demand, including energy conservation (para. 1.09).
This would be achieved through an afforestation program, improved watershed
management and utilization of alter-native energy technologies (biogas, mini/micro
hydro schemes, solar energy devices and improved woodstoves).
1.04        Other Renewable Energy Sources.  Dung production by livestock is
estimated at about 24.5 million tons per year, of which approximately 1? is used
directly as a fuel by rural households, accounting for about 72 of the total



energy supplies. Dung cot.verted into methane in biogas digesters could provide
for the cooking and lighting needs of an estimated 402 of the population.
However, only about 4,000 have been developed so far which would generate an
insignificant methane yield. Agricultural waste (straw, husks, etc.) is wi!ely
used and accounts for approximately 162 of total energy supplies. Solar energy
applications, so far, have been limited primarily to demonstration/pilot projects
(solar water heaters, solar driers, and photovoltaic and wind-power generating
units). Solar energy applications' economic viability still has to be justified.
1.05        Hydropower.  The Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) has estimated
(1985) Nepal's economically exploitable hydropower potential to be around
25,000 MW, of which about 20,000 MW have been investigated. Only 241 MW of the
potential have been developed (236 MW in the interconnected network and 5 MW at
isolated centers), and a further 12 MW are under construction. The MOWR
sponsored resource surveys of Nepal's three major river basins (Kosi, Gandak and
Karnali), producing an inventory of hydroelectric sites. The Nepal Electricity
Authority (NEA) is following these up with various prefeasibility and feasibility
studies of the promising hydroelectric sites. Hydropower development is hindered
by relatively low levels of domestic demand which do not justify projects that
could take full advantage of economies of scale. There are technical
impediments: lack of access roadsz difficult geological conditions; extreme
variation in river flows; a relatively weak hydrological data base; and heavy
silt loads. Some potential projects (Chisapani, Pancheswar) are also very large
(3,000 MW or above) and would have to be developed as export projects to India
requiring special institutional and financial arrangements.
1.06        The large number (about 30,000) of traditional water mills for
grinding corn indicates that there is considerable scope for developing micro-
hydropower schemes through individual or community effort. If all these mills
were replaced by dual-purpose mills (grinding corn and generating electricity),
they could be uced to operate small power generators with an average capacity of
about 10 kW, giving a total potAntial of 300 MW. Recognizing that dual-purpose
micro hydro units could form part of the least cost solution for meeting rural
energy needs and also provide high returns for relatively modest investments,
HMGIN's policy is to use tariff deregulation and make credit available through
the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB/N) to encourage private sector
entrepreneurs to develop micro-hydro schemes of up to 100 kW capacity.
C. Energy Consumption
1.07        Nepal's per capita consu,.otion of commercial enurgy (18 kilograms of
oil equivalent) is the lowest recorded for any developing country. In FY88,
gross energy consumption amounted tc 5,800 million TOE of which commercial energy
accounted for 341 million TOE (5.9? of total energy consumption) distributed
amongst petroleum (3.12), coal (0.9Z) and hydroelectricity (1.9?). During
1980/81-1987/88 commercial energy consumption grew 8Z per annum compared with an
annual real GDP growth rate of 4.72. The resulting energy elasticity (1.70) was
high compared with 1.1 f3r all developing countries. This is partly due to
considerable inefficiency in commercial energy use in the industry and transport
sectors and in electricity generation, transmission and distribution. This is
being addressed in various donor supported projects, including the Marsyangdi
Hydroelectric Power Project (MHPP) (Cr. 1478-NEP) and the proposed Project as
well as the Interfuel Substitution and Energy Efficiency Study (para. 1.09). The



-3-
)ulk of commercial energy consumption in FY88 was in the residential (27,6Z),
industrial (32.8Z) and transport (25.1Z) sectors (see Annex 1.1).
1.08        Energy Trade.  All imported energy supplies are purchased from India
(coal and electricity) or have to be routed through India (petroleum products).
Until 1973 Nepal's petroleum product imports were all ftom India, but since then
Nepal has bought on the international market at international prices. Nepal does
not have a refinery. Under a 5-year agreement signed in June 1990, petroleum
imports are delivered to India, which supplies Nepal's required mix of products
from the most convenient Indian refineries under a product exchange agreement.
Nepal Oil Corporation (NOC) maintains minimum stocks equivalent to 35 days'
supply. Coal is imported from India by Nepal Coal Limited (NCL) which negotiates
supply contracts with the Indian authorities including provision of rail wagons
for transporting the coal to Nepal's border. Electricity trade has fluctuated
with net imports accounting for 4Z of net commercial energy supply in FY88.
Altogether, commercial energy imports accounted for about 22Z of Nepal's limited
foreign exchange earnings in FY88. In the future, the trend points to continued
increases in commercial energy imports and the necessity of developing indigenous
hydroelectric resources to minimize the impact of energy imports on Nepal's
balance of payments (para. 1.14).
1.09        Interfuel Substitution and Energy Efficiency.  In view of the need to
develop an action program to reverse deforestation and maximize energy
utilization efficiency, HMG/N requested the joint United Nations Development
Program (UNDP)/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme to
cor.duct an Interfuel Substitution and Energy Efficiency Study which is expected
to begin in aarly 1992   This Finnish International Development Agency (FINNIDA)
funded study will identify sectoral investment programs to support energy
efficiency and interfuel substitution in a framework of policy actions (including
energy pricing - see para. 1.14), institutional development and financing
arrangements to ensure their implementation.
D. Organization of the Energy Sector
1.10        Institutional responsibility for the energy sector is spread over
many organizations including core and line ministries and several entities. The
Ministry of Finance is responsible for coordinating and securing external
financial assistance in the energy and other sectors: it also has an interest in
the financial implications of energy investments and pricing and energy agencies'
financial operations. The National Planning Commission, which is responsible for
national economic planning, reviews energy sector programs and projects,
particularly in connection with the preparation of the national five-year
development plans. The Public Service Commission provides guidelines governing
conditions of service (recruitment, promotion, discipline, etc.) in government
departments and public enterprises.
1.11        The line ministries with specific energy responsibilities are the
MOWR (electricity supply); the Ministry of Forests and Environment (MFE)
(fuelwood); the Ministry of Agriculture (through its jurisdiction over ADB/N);
the Ministry of Industry (MOI) (which has jurisdiction over NCL) and whose
Department of Mines and Geology is responsible for oil and gas exploration; and
the Ministry of Supply (which has jurisdiction over the NOC and the Timber
Corporation of Nepal (TCN)). Apart from NEA, the other public energy sector



enterprises are the TCN (fuelwood supp7y). the NOC and NCL (import and
distribution of coad).
1.12       Within the power subsector, MOWR has general responsibility for all
public activities related to electricity supply, including jurisdiction over NEA
which is char-ged with the planning, construction and operation of all public
power facilities in Nepal. The Minister of MOWR in also Chairman of NEA and of
the Water and Energy Commission (WEC), which includes representatives of all the
main ministries. WEC's responsibilities, carried out through its technical arm,
the Water and Energy Commission Secretariat (WECS), include investigation of
national water and energy resources, studies of natioral water and energy
requirements, conservation, development and utilization of water and energy
resources, and preparation and coordinationi of short- and long-term plans for
water and energy development. WECS is supported by technical assistance provided
by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) through the WECS/NEA
Institutional Support Program (WISP), staffed by Canadian International Water and
Energy Consultants (CIWEC). It liaises with NEA, which also benefits from the
assistance of WISP staff in load forecasting, system planning, tariff design,
hydroelectric project preparation and engineering of distribution systems.
E. Energy Pricing
1.13       Most energy (approximately 88Z) in Nepal is not traded, and hence
market clearing is not via the price mechanism. Pricing of commercial energy ia
generally administered by HMG/N; however, for a proportion of commercial fuelwood
sales, which account for only a small percentRge of fuelwood consumption. prices
are set in the market place. Pricing schedules of the principal comme.c..al
energy sources (petroleum products and electricity) dre prepared by NOC and NEA,
respectively; these must then be approved by the Cabinet. Coal prices are set by
the Government of India (GI). The pricing of commercial fuelwood sold by TCN is
based on proposals prepared by TCN and approved by the Cabinet.
1.14        Prices for all forms of energy have risen substantially in real terms
since 1975, but much more so for indigenous sources (fuelwood and electricity)
than for imported energy (petroleum and coal) (Annex 1.2). Until recently, the
policy for petroleum products had been to adjust domestic prices to reflect the
trend of international prices. In addition, taxes on petroleum products were a
major source of Government revenue. The current price structure for petroleum
fuels sets prices for kerosene and diesel below their border prices and for
gasoline and aviation fuel above border prices. Because the weighted average
price of petroleum products in Nepal is less than the prevailing border prices of
mid-July 1991, NOC's projected annual losses for FY92 were estimated to be
NRs 1,796 million.
1.15        Coal prices reflect its border price of supply plus distribution and
storage costs; they are exempt from taxes mnd duties. Since 1975, fuelwood
prices charged by the TCN (and its predecessor thp Fuelwood Corporation) have
risen much more rapidly than electricity prices, but rather more slowly than
kerosene prices. Despite these increases, TCN's prices remain well below the
free market level set by private suppliers, which much more closely reflect the
economic cost of supply.
1.16        Electricity prices have always been below the long-run marginal costs
of supply; the present estimated average price of about NRs 2.22/kWh on total NEA



sales is well below the estimated long run marginal cost (LRMC) of NRs 6.44/kWh
(see Annex 1.3). This reflects a 61Z tariff increase as of November 17, 1991
which also introduced time of day pricing for high and medium voltage consumers.
The new tariff level and structure reflect in part the recommendations of a LRMC
and Tariff Study that was supported by Cr. 1902-NEP. The NEA study is being
complemented by a study on equitable and efficient energy pricing policies being
conducted by WECS under Asian Development Bank (ADB) sponsorship. This study
will provide recommendations to achieve the financial viability of NOC
(para. 1.14) and other energy corporations and a framework for the Interfuel
Substitution and Energy Efficiency study implementation (para. 1.09) through
promoting the substitution of fuelwood by commercial energy sources and efficient
energy use.
F. HMG/N's Energy Sector Strategy
1.17        Recognizing the key role of increasing energy supplies in the
nation's economic development and in meeting its Basic Needs Program targets
formulated in 1985, HMG/N has given high priority to energy sector investments,
especially power projects (para. 1.01), in its investment program. The principal
objectives of HMG/N's energy policy are to: (i) reverse the deforestation trend;
(ii) develop a surplus trade balance in conventional energy (fossil fuels and
electricity) by developing indigenous hydropower resources; (iii) meet the
forecast demand for energy within Nepal at least cost to the economy;
(iv) increase the reliability and quality of electricity supply through upgrading
the distribution system and reducing systems losses; (v) adjust energy prices to
promote efficient use while meeting the Government's social objectives; and
(vi) improve operational and financial performance and resource mobilization from
energy sector entities.
1.18        HMG/N has made some progress in meeting these objectives through:
(i) implementing a fuelwood management policy (para. 1.03); (ii) addressing
interfuel substitution and energy efficiency issues (para. 1.09);
(iii) collaborating with the GOI in conducting preparatory studies for the
Chisapani and Pancheswar hydroprojects (para. 1.05); (iv) allocating
responsibilities to the public and private sectors for the development of the
energy sector (paras. 1.06; 1.10-1.12); and (v) developing an efficient energy
pricing policy (paras. 1.13-1.16). The strategy's impact is particularly evident
in the power subsector in system planning and institutional consolidation. Of
most note is the creation of NEA in August 1985 by amalgamating a number of
diff-rent public entities (para. 2.01). This has led to more focussed decision-
making and increased sectoral coordination. However, urgent action is needed in
energy pricing particularly for fuelwood and petroleum p:oducts.
G. Bank Group Involvement in the Power Subsector
1.19        IDA's objectives for the power subsector consist of assisting HMG/N
to: (a) develop efficiently its enormous hydroelectric potential with minimal
adverse envirormental impacts to (i) reduce the cost and improve the availability
of power to the domestic market and (ii) export power to India; (b) upgrade the
corporate performance of the principal subsectoral institution (NEA);
(c) formulate a comprehensive and balanced investment program to meet projected
demand at least cost; (d) set tariffs for export to India and for internal supply
in Nepal that reflect the economic cost of supply; and (e) meet the demand for



-6-
energy (particularly rural energy) at least cost while developing and sustaining
Nepal's indigenous resources. To date, IDA has supported HMG/N's strategy by
financing ten projects in the energy sector including six projects aimed at the
development of grid hydroelectric schemes, three forestry projects and a
petroleum exploration promotion project which attracted one joint venture but has
not led to any petroleum discoveries.  The credits have totalled US$281 million
equivalent, representing about 27? of total IDA commitments to Nepal; lending for
power projects, primarily through MOWR, amounted to US$206 million. The lessons
learned from supporting HMG/N's energy sector strategy and in the joint IDA/ADB
power subsector study (para. 1.23) have been useful in developing a coordinated
donor lending strategy for supporting the Nepal power subsector in line with
HMG/N's sectoral objectives (para. 1.17).
1 20        Of the six IDA credits devoted to supporting hydropower development,
four supported project implementation and two supported project preparation,
including the feasibility study of the Karnali (Chisapani) Multipurpose Project
(ultimate capacity in excess of 10,000 MW) (Cr. 1452-NEP), site investigations of
the 3,000-6,000 MW Pancheswar project and the detailed engineering for the Arun
Project (Cr. 1902-NEP). While progress on the preparatory studies has generally
been satisfactory, experience with the two completed hydroelectric projects
(Kulekhani and Marsyangdi) has been mixed. Physical implementation of projects
has improved markedly but weaknesses in institutional/financial performance still
persist.
1.21        The credits for Kulekhani (Cr. 600-NEP & Cr. 601-1-NEP) were closed
on June 30, 1984. The Project Performance Audit Report'/ stated that a 21
month delay in project commissioning and an 80Z cost overrun were caused by lack
of experience of the implementing agency (the Kulekhani Hydroelectric Development
Board) in managing projects of this scope (at the time it was the largest in the
country) in the Nepal Himalayas; the parties did not fully anticipate the risks
involved and, therefore, did not take sufficient corrective measures. In
particular, the project suffered from the lack of a Panel of Experts (POE) to
review the project feasibility study, site investigations, and a detailed
engineering cost estimate. In addition, the need to develop a comprehensive
watershed management plan to control erosion in the catchment upstream of the
Kulekhani reservoir was not identified (although watershed management programs
are now in place with the support of other donors). Compliance with the major
financial covenant of setting tariffs to meet rate of return targets was
deficient because of Government reluctance to make timely tariff adjustments.
1.22        Implementation performance improved considerably for the Marsyangdi
Project (Cr. 1478-NEP), primarily due to HMG/N and IDA applying lessons learned
from the Kulekhani project. A POE was involved from the beginning, and bids were
based on a detailed engineering study. The project also included preparation of
a catchment management plan in the Marsyangdi area. However, HMG/N had
instvfficient resources to implement the recommended plan. The proposed Project
would provide funds to implement the first five years of the catchment management
plan. The Marsyangdi Project was commissioned in January 1990, within six months
of its scheduled date, and within budget. Compliance with project covenants was
mixed primarily because HMG/N was unwilling to make timely tariff increases.
1/ NEPAL: Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project (Cr. 600-NEP and 600-1-NEP),
Project Performance Audit Report (t 6177), May 8, 1986.



-  7 -
1.23       At the request of HMG/N, during 1987 ADB and IDA conducted a
diagnostic study of Nepal's Power Subsector; as a result, HMG/N, NEA, ADB and IDA
agreed that further attention needed to be paid to improving institutional
performace, energy pricing and resource mobilization, investment planning and
bulk electricity exports. In addition to identifying the proposed Project, the
Power Subsector Review (PSR), January 15, 1988 - Report No. 6879a-NEP, identified
the Arun Project as the next generation project to be added to Nepal's grid as
well as the first project to enable Nepal to develop bulk power exports to India.
As a result of a joint review of the PSR by HMG/N and IDA, IDA prepared the Third
Technical Assistance (Pancheswar) Project (Cr. 1902-NEP) to help NEA implement
the PSR's recommendations relating to investment preparation in generation,
transmission and distribution (pars. 2.20-z4), upgrading of existing generation
facilities (para. 2.19), electricity tariffs (para. 1.16) and improving NEA's
operational efficiency (para. 2.04-2.14).
1.24        The Arun Project's preparation is now at an advanced stage:  the
detailed engineering cost estimate was finalized in November 1990, and
prequalification of civil works contractors has been completed. However, because
of design changes and delays caused by the Trade and Transit (T&T) dispute and
political transition, the project's estimated costs have increased appreciably.
Given the scale and current costs of the proposed Arun project (402 MW, for which
the first phase of 268 MW would cost about US$1 billion) in comparison to Nepal's
economy, IDA is currently reviewing its affordability and the operational
sequencing of Arun and alternative generation investments in an effort to arrive
at a balanced investment program on which both the Government and the donors can
agree. In the meantime, the proposed Power Sector Efficiency Project would
reduce system and financial losses and would, inter alia, help to strengthen the
capacity of the electricity authority to carry out the power investment program
and operate and maintain the system.
H. Cofinancing and Donor Coordination
1.25        Under Cr. 600-NEP, 1478-NEP, 1902-NEP there has been significant
cofinancing involving IDA, CIDA, the European Commission, Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development, Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau, Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan, Saudi Fund for Development, and UNDP in
supporting the development of hydroelectric schemes; other donors including ADB,
FINNIDA, Government of France and the Japanese International Cooperation Agency
(JICA) have largely supported investments in transmission and distribution (T&D).
ADB and IDA collaborated in the preparation of the Nepal Power Subsector Review
(para. 1.23) that has guided both institutions' strategy for power development in
Nepal. The strategy proposed in the review was endorsed by the donor community
at a Donors Meeting on the Nepal Power Subsector chaired by the Bank in Paris in
May 1988 when ten donors made preliminary commitments to support the Arun
Project.



- 8 -
II. THE BENEFICIARY
A. Organization, Management and Staffing
Organization
2.01        NEA, the beneficiary, is a relatively new organization.  Following
studies financed by ADB, it was created in August 1985 through the amalgamation
of a number of public sector organizations, principally the Nepal Electricity
Corporation, the Electricity Department, and Small Hydro Development Board.
Under the NEA Act, NEA is required to supply electricity to all, regardless of
ability to pay, as well as to operate on commercial principles. Although the NEA
Act states that NEA is to be autonomous, in practice it has limited autonomy.
The Act spells out the Government's powers over Nepal's power subsector including
appointment of NEA's Board and requirements for NEA to submit regular reports and
obtain Governmental approval for foreign loans, power exports and changes in
electricity prices. Further, HMG/N is very involved in NEA's day-to-day
functioning, including staff appointments.
Management
2.02        As specified in its Act, NEA's Board consists of Government employees
(Secretaries of the MOE, MOWR, Law and Justice and MOI; a Member of the Planning
Commission; an official designated by HMG/N; and the Deputy Chairman of the
Rastra Bank) and two private sector representatives nominated by the Government,
together with NEA's Managing Director. The Board is chaired by the Minister,
MOWR. The Board has played a very limited role in facilitating NEA's
institutional development. Few of its members have expertise in the power
sector, there have been periods when it has met infrequently, and, in general, it
has not consistently functioned in ways which have supported efficient,
commercially oriented operations. NEA's organization chart is given in
Annex 2.1.
Staffing
2.03        NEA had about 9,398 employees in December 1991, including 441
technical and about 143 non-technical officers. Approximately 52Z of NEA's staff
are permanent, 12X temporary, and 36? are monthly and daily wage earners.
Although NEA is seriously overstaffed, it is deficient in key personnel in nearly
every functional area. NEA has the lowest annual sales and generation per
employee of any Asian country for which data are available: 60 MWh (net
generation) and 81 MWh (gross generation) per employee, respectively, compared to
184 MWh and 263 MWh for Bangladesh, the next lowest. NEA's management is
conscious of the overstaffing problem and, in conjunction with the IDA-financed
training program (para. 2.14), has commissioned the preparation of a manpower and
training master plan. Recommendations agreed with IDA will be implemented under
a Performance Contract (PC) between NEA and HMG/N (para. 2.06).
B. Upgrading NEA's Operational Efficiency
2.04        In 1988, the Power Subsector Review identified a number of major
impediments to NEA's efficient operation including: (a) a lack of coherent
corporate goals; (b) insufficient autonomy (as evidenced in its Board composition
and increasing Government interference in its day-to-day affairs);



-9-
(c) unfamiliarity amongst NEA management with the application of modern utility
management techniques, including insufficient delegation of responsibility (and
accountability) to middle management staff; and (d) inadequate conditions of
service. These have led to low staff morale and productivity, inadequate
financial and accounting management, a poorly maintained and operated system,
unreliable electricity supply and high system losses. The Power Subsector Review
proposed, and NEA accepted, that a major step could be taken in addressing these
issues through NEA entering into a "twinning" arrangement with a mature utility.
2.05        With the assistance of IDA (Cr. 1902-NEP), NEA entered into a two
year 'twinning" agreement with Electricite de France International (EdF) in
October 1989 (subsequently, the contract was extended by six months). The
agreement provides expertise in all aspects of modern power utili..y practices,
with special emphasis on assisting NEA to develop a corporate plan and improve
operations management. In close collaboration with NEA management, an EdF team
reviewed NEA's main functions and issued a diagnostic report. Based on
discussions between NEA, EdF and IDA, the following priority areas were selected
for NEA's Performance Improvement Plan (PIP):  financial management; manpower
planning/training; design standards; corporate planning; loss reduction/-
computerized billing; load management; procurement and materials management;
oper:ations and maintenance of power facilities; generation expansion planning;
and studies to develop an inventory of potential hydroelectric projects
(para. 1.05). Following these discussions, the consultants prepared a
comprehensive program defining long-term and short-term action plans to address
the priority areas (Annex 2.2). These action plans were then converted into a
master schedule to be attached to a Performance Contract (PC) between HMG/N and
NEA (para. 2.06).
2.06        Key elements of the action program will include:  (a) streamlining
NEA's organization through creating a separate Rural Electrification (RE)
Directorate (para. 2.24) and a separate Human Resources Department (HRD),
reporting directly to the Managing Director, responsible for manpower planning
and corporate-wide training programs (para. 2.16); (b) introducing an incentive
scheme based on actual performance in NEA's compensation system; and
(c) introducing a staff career development process that allows for merit
promotion and training. To provide a framework for implementing NEA's PIP, a
three year rolling Performance Contract (PC) will be agreed between HMG/N and NEA
which will be updated annually and be subject to modifications, if necessary, by
HMG/N and NEA. The contract will focus primarily on NEA's major objectives and
outline the respective rights and obligations of HMG/N and NEA. Implementation
of the PC is expected to reduce government interference and build up NEA's
autonomy. The following major issues are expected to be covered in the first
contract: (a) NEA objectives in the specific areas of supply to consumers,
consumer relations, finance, accounting and auditing, technical operations and
tariff policies; (b) the respective rights and obligations of NEA and HMG/N,
including specific agreements on implementation of tariff policies, financing of
investment, settlement of arrears between HMG/N and NEA and legal and regulatory
aspects, including disconnection of supply; (c) management of the PC; and
(d) agreed details of investment plan and its financing, performance indicators
and financial projections. A draft PC between HMG/N and NEA was discussed and
agreed with IDA during negotiations; conclusion of a PC between HMG/N and NEA
with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 6.04(a)).



- 10 -
2.07       The dispersal of NEA's headquarters (HQ) in Kathmandu in several
buildings disrupts management and Qrganizational integration. NEA is
establishing central office facilities to improve its corporate effectiveness,
computerizing some of its activities and rationalizing its working environment.
Also, the increasing demands for maintenance repair services from the various
hydro plants could be met at least cost by establishing a central, fully equipped
mechanical and electrical workshop with specialized and well trained maintenance
teams. The proposed Project includes equipment for NEA's new headquarters
offices and workshop facilities. In addition, NEA plans to set up a trainir.g
facility (para. 2.16).
C. Financial Organization, Accounts and Audit
2.08       Although NEA was only incorporated in August 1985, on completion of
the proposed FY92-97 expansion program, it will be responsible for assets worth
US$1.1 billion. It is therefore essential for NEA to have an efficient Finance
Department, supported by an effective internal audit system. Unfortunately,
NEA's present financial administration, accounting, and internal audit are
unsatisfactory. In recent years donors, particularly ADB and IDA, have provided
NEA with considerable technical assistance in these areas; the results, however,
have proved to be unsatisfactory mainly because of insufficient local initiative
and direction in the implementation and operation phases of the new systems and
procedures. NEA's financial staff lack the qualifications, experience and
initiative necessary to carry out their duties and responsibilities. This
situation has been further exacerbated by staffing policies and staff transfers
inappropriate for a power utility.
2.09       Overall accounting and financial management are deficient.  General
accounting, which suffers from poor primary documentation, is inaccurate and
follows principles which deviate from accepted international standards. Poor
coordination between regional units and HQ and weak accounting at HQ have
resulted in significant delays in the preparation of the final accounts. Debt
and debt service records are incomplete (para. 4.03). Accounting manuals need to
be reviewed and updated to provide staff with clear direction on correct
accounting principles. Cost accounting needs to be improved and put to useful
purpose. Cash management and cash control appear to be almost non-existent; cash
collection, as evidenced by high receivables (para 4.13), is unsatisfactory, and
there appears to be little control on cash in transit. Budgeting suffers from
approval delays and lack of monitoring during implementation. Present
procurement procedures lead to excessive ordering, high prices and lack of
standardization. Accommodation for physical stores, in general, needs
improvement. Thus, even if NEA had fully competent staff, the present systems
would not provide the information required for effective financial management.
2.10       NEA is taking steps to correct this situation.  In accord with an IDA
recommendation, made during preparation of the proposed Project, in December 1991
NEA appointed a professionally qualified Finance Director on contract for three
years. The necessary funding required would be met from Cr. 1902-NEP. Also, to
further strengthen NEA's Finance Department, in accord with an understanding
reached during negotiations, NEA has also appointed two well qualified Nepali
professionals to act as assistants to the new Finance Director. Further, NEA
will be required to employ consultants to review NEA's accounting system and
practices, make appropriate recommendations and implement the accepted changes.
During the implementation phase, the consultants will provide "on-the-job"



- 11 
training to NEA's accounting staff. The consultants will also make
recommendations and assist management in deciding on the Accounting Department's
staffing needs.
2.11        The preliminary long form auditor's report for FY89 clearly
demonstrates the deficiencies in NEA's financial administration, many of which
had been commented upon in previous reports. Many matters raised in this report
are serious and point to unsatisfactory internal control as well as poor
accounting, e.g. failure to account for cash in transit over several years; poor
bank reconciliation; large advances to staff without proper justification,
including advances to staff who have now left NEA; large sums paid through
letters of credit which have been outstanding for years; charges to bank accounts
which have not been recorded in NEA's accounts; failure to reconcile branch
accounts; and charging out stores at 'nil' value. These and other matters
reflect unfavorably on NEA's internal audit and control. Accordingly, as
recommended by IDA, in order to strengthen its Internal Audit Unit, NEA has
employed consultants under Cr. 1902-NEP to review the unit's organization,
staffing and program needs and make appropriate recommendations. Subsequently,
this would be followed by the updating of existing and, when necessary,
development of new audit programs and the training of staff in their use.
Independent Audit
2.12        In accordance with the NEA Act, the Auditor-General (AG) is
officially responsible for auditing NEA's annual accounts. However, although the
AG certifies the reports, because of manpower constraints the actual work is
contracted out, generally for three years, to independent firms of Chartered
Accountants. The audited financial statements for FY86 and FY87 were
unsatisfactory. The reports have omissions, and numerous items lack adequate
explanation; furthermore, the report and statements do not conform with
recognized international accounting and auditing standards. However, a different
firm was contracted to audit NEA's FY88 accounts, and based on satisfactory
performance, its contract was extended for FY89 and FY90. More recently,
constitutional amendments have authorized NEA to appoint its own auditors
although this would also require amendment of the NEA Act. To facilitate
achieving this objective in accord with an understanding reached during
negotiations, HMG/N is preparing a proposal for appropriate amendments to the NEA
Act.
2.13        Credit 1478-NEP requires NEA to furrLish certified financial
statements and a signed copy of the audit report to IDA within twelve months of
the end of the fiscal year. Inordinate delays in finalizing the annual accounts
have resulted in non-compliance with the covenant. However, with the appointment
of the new auditor since FY88, NEA's audits for FY88 were completed within a
reasonable time, and those for FY89 were finalized in January 1992. The delay in
submittal of the FY89 accounts was mainly due to NEA's inability to expedite
revaluation of assets in its accounts, as covenanted under Cr. 1478-NEP. Audited
FY90 accounts are expected to be approved by NEA's Board by the end of March
1992. The technical assistance program envisaged for NEA's Finance Department
(para. 2.10), commercial operations (para. 2.24) and internal audit (para. 2.12)
is expected to enable NEA to complete its future audits within the schedule
outlined below. To ensure better monitoring, during negotiations NEA agreed that
unaudited annual financial statements with all supporting schedules would be
prepared within six months of the close of each fiscal year and that annual
audited financial statements and reports would be certified by the auditor and



- 12 -
approved by NEA's Board within nine months of year end (para. 6.03(a)). The
auditors would, in their report, provide a separate opinion on expenditures made
through special accounts and on IDA reimbursements made through statements of
expenditures (SOE) and certify that they are fully supported by the underlying
data (para. 6.03(a)). In addition, during negotiations, HMG/N and NEA assured
IDA that annual audited financial statements certified by the AG would be
forwarded to IDA within twelve months of year end (para. 6.02(a)).
Insurance
2.14       As agreed under Cr. 1478-NEP, NEA has carried out a Risk and
Insurance Management Development Study with J. M. Gordon and Associates
Consultants Ltd, insurance consultants of Calgary, Canada. The study concluded
that insuring all exposures and risks would be extremely expensive for NEA and
therefore insurance should only be purchased for catastrophic risks for large
facilities. Small or more frequent losses would be more cost effectively "self-
insured" (i.e. no insurance purchased). Based on an evaluation of NEA's ability
to fund losses internally, the study concluded that NEA should self-insure any
loss exposure or location where its maximum foreseeable loss would be less than
NRs 20 million. It also concluded that NEA should bear the first NRs 10 million
of any loss. The first NRs 2 million of any loss should be charged to operating
expenses, and any loss exceeding NRs 2 million per accident would be paid out of
a contingency reserve fund. Since NEA is currently accruing losses the
establishment of such a reserve fund would be difficult. During negotiations, it
was agreed that NEA would, by June 30, 1992 prepare and furnish to IDA for its
review and comments, a proposal for an insurance program consistent with sound
public utility practice to be undertaken by NEA. Starting in FY93, NEA will
implement the insurance program taking account of IDA's comments (para. 6.03(b)).
D. Training
2.15        NEA's management regards training as a critical component of its
institutional development and a means to enable it to meet its obligations under
the PC to be signed with HMG/N (para. 2.06). Initially, NEA had no formalized
training program; training was ad-hoc, as a result of counterpart staff being
attached to consultants and contractors working on projects. The first
systematic training program was established for eighty-three technicians and
operative financial and accounting staff in bookkeeping, budgeting, stores
control and cost accounting with the assistance of Coopers and Lybrand Deloitte
(C&LD) under ADB's Fifth Power Project.
2.16        Under Cr. 1478-NEP, with EdF's assistance, NEA has initiated a
corporate approach to training. The training program is focussed on technical
areas identified in a training diagnosis and the establishment of a training
center using existing facilities at Marsyangdi. The program trained seven
trainers and 132 NEA staff for a total of approximately 2,300 staff-days in FY90.
This was increased to cover about 244 technical personnel for about 5,700 staff-
days in FY91. During FY92 the plans are to train up to 500 staff for a total of
about 11,500 staff-days, pending completion of the Marsyangdi Training Center and
the training of additional instructors. While progress has been made in training
in NEA, it has been hampered by lack of clear policies, high-level involvement
and appropriate institutional organization as well as delays in purchasing
equipment, appointing instructors and the training center's establishment. The
proposed Project provides for continuation of the training program and its



- 13 -
broadening to include training in management and finance. To provide an
appropriate framework for institutionalizing training and manpower planning
during negotiations NEA agreed that by March 31, 1992, it will implement an
action program, including the establishment within NEA of a Human Resources
Department (HRD) responsible for training programs and manpower planning and
development and the employment of a HRD Director with qualifications
satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.03(c)).
E. Existing Facilities
2.17        NEA is Nepal's principal power supplier; electricity is also supplied
by some industrial captive generation plants (nominal capacity of 17.5 MW) and a
number of privately owned hydroelectric plants (each of less than 100 kW
capacity) with estimated cumulative capacity of 0.6 MW.
Generation Capacity
2.18        Nepal's interconnected system has an installed generating capacity of
291 MW (see Annex 2.3) of which 236 MW (81Z) is hydroelectric plant and 55 MW
(19Z) is diesel plant; NEA's rated generating capacity is 257 MW. Since 1981,
180 MW of new hydroelectric plant has been installed, increasing the hydro
proportion of generating plant from 67Z to 81Z. All hydroelectric plants are
run-of-river except for the 60 MW Kulekhani I which has seasonal storage. The
12 MW Jhimruk grid hydroelectric project (to be commissioned in 1995) is under
construction by the Butwal Power Company (a non-governmental organization) with
Norwegian assistance; this company also constructed the 5.1 MW Andhi Khola
project which was commissioned in 1991. On commissioning, the Jhimruk project
will be handed over to NEA. With FINNIDA's assistance, NEA commissioned a 26 MW
multifuel thermal plant in 1991. Outside the interconnected system, NEA operates
a number of isolated hydroelectric plants with total installed capacity of 3.9 MW
and small diesel plants with total installed sapacity of 1.0 MW.
Transmission
2.19        Nepal's transmission system (Map IBRD 22331) developed through the
gradual interconnection of isolated networks built to serve regional centers. In
the central region a 66 kV network was developed to bring power into the
Kathmandu valley from outlying hydroelectric plants: Kulekhani I (60 MW), Sunkosi
(10 MW), Devighat (14 MW) and Trisuli (21 MW). A 66 kV double circuit line also
links Kulekhani I with Hetauda and Birganj. To allow electricity to be
transmitted to the Eastern, Western, Mid-Western and Far-Western regions, a
132 kV transmission line is being superimposed on the 66 kV system from Anarmani
in the Mechi Zone to Manendranagar in the Mahakali Zone; in addition, the
Kulekhani II and Marsyangdi hydroelectric plants are linked to the 132 kV system.
A single line diagram of the existing transmission system is shown in Annex 2.4
together with a schedule of facilities. Interconnection with India takes place
at Ramnagar at 132 kV and at fourteen other isolated points along the border at
the distribution voltage level (33 kV or 11 kV). The NEA system is not
synchronized with the two border Indian State Electricity Boards (Bihar and Uttar
Pradesh). Power exchange, currently limited to 50 MW equivalent, occurs in an ad
hoc manner, depending upon the availability of supply. Most of the 66 kV/11 kV
substations in the Kathmandu Valley are overloaded to the point that NEA is
forced to shed load to avoid overload on the main substation transformers.
Further, system supply capability under fault conditions is limited because there



- 14 -
is no direct intertie at 132 kV between the Marsyangdi and Kulekhani plants. The
proposed Project would address these problems.
Distribution
2.20        Available data indicate that the distribution system consists of
351 km of 33 kV lines, approximately 900 kms of 11 kV (and 2.3 kV lines) and
approximately 2,500 km of low voltage (LV) lines. Overloading of the existing
33/11 kV and 11/0.4 kV substations, particularly in the Kathmandu valley, is
leading to overloading of their outgoing feeders, causing excessive voltage drops
and high technical losses (para. 2.25).
Maintenance
2.21        Until the recent commissioning of the 69 MW Marsyangdi Project, NEA
had been postponing major repairs and maintenance of its hydropower stations.
This is particularly the case of the 35 MW Trisuli-Devighat complex, which can
hardly deliver 21 MW at present. Each of the seven existing generating units of
the Trisuli plant, commissioned between 1962 and 1970, have accumulated over
110,000 hours in operation and urgently need repair. Progressive siitation of
waterways and excessive use of plant over 20 years without maintenance have
reduced output from 18 MW to about 12 MW. Downstream, the Devighat plant is
reusing water discharged from Trisuli and is, therefore, directly affected by the
reduced and silty water supply. Although the Devighat units, commissioned in
1984, are in better condition than Trisuli, the highly sedimented inflows and
operational constraints have reduced power output from the design capacity of
14 MW to 9.4 MW. Likewise, the Sunkosi, Gandak and Kulekhani hydroelectric
plants need complete overhauls and repairs as soon as possible to avoid major
breakdowns. Currently NEA is undertaking overdue maintenance of the 92 MW
Kulekhani I and II complex. Under Cr. 1902-NEP, NEA carried out a feasibility
study with assistance from consultants, which confirmed the attractiveness of
upgrading and refurbishing the Trisuli-Devighat complex. The proposed Project
would facilitate implementation of the study's recommendations. It would also
provide spares, tools and equipment for Nepal's transmission system. Spares for
three other hydroelectric schemes and two diesel plants are being financed under
Cr. 1478-NEP.
F. Power System Planning
Generation
2.22        NEA's Planning Directorate's System Planning Department, with the
assistance of the Engineering Directorate's Project Preparation Department, is
responsible for system planning in generation and transmission. Distribution
planning is carried out in the Technical Services Department of the Distribution
and Customer Services Directorate (TS/DCS). In 1987, in conjunction with the
Power Subsector Review, under technical assistance funded by CIDA and IDA, NEA
prepared a Least Cost Generation Expansion Plan (LCGEP) through the year 2005
with CIWEC's assistance. This study identified the components of the proposed
Project. In 1990 NEA, with EdF's support under Cr. 1902-NEP, updated the LCGEP
to take into account the changes in Nepal's economic environment since 1987,
including the impact of the recently resolved T&T impasse. The proposed Project
was reconfirmed as a priority investment. Although NEA continues to rely upon
assistance from consultants to prepare its generation expansion plans, it has



- 15 -
developed in-house capabilities for conducting computerized system-planning
studies as well as cost estimating for hydroelectric projects.
Transmission & Distribution Planning
2.23        Planning in T&D is hampered by the multiplicity of planning criteria
and standards from various consultants and the inexperience of NEA staff to
impose a uniform approach. Also, NEA's work is constrained by a lack of basic
system data and maps of existing distribution networks. Recognizing this, NEA
has completed a Ten Year T&D Master Plan for the Nepal interconnected system with
technical assistance provided under Cr. 1902-NEP. This activity has been
complemented by technical assistance provided by ADB aimed at institutionalizing
distribution planning at the regional/zonal levels as well as assisting TS/DCS in
establishing drawing office facilities and a central registry for system plant
and configuration data.
Rural Electrification (RE)
2.24        RE is an important component of a strategy to meet rural energy needs
at least cost and potentially an important element of a comprehensive rural
development strategy because it delivers high quality, highly productive energy.
At present, approximately 942 of Nepal's population live in rural areas, of which
an estimated 2Z has access to electricity. There are many reasons why RE has not
yet taken root in Nepal: (i) absence of an RE master plan; (ii) lack of
coordination of the various parties involved; and (iii) economical and financial
non-viability of most existing RE schemes (especially those operated by NEA)
because of design and management weaknesses. Further, NEA has been unwilling to
increase its RE activities because the Government does not reimburse NEA for
them. To address these and related issues, NEA has prepared a Ten Year RE Master
Plan with assistance provided by the National Rural Electric Cooperative
Association (USA) uneer Cr. 1902-NEP. In addition to identifying the components
of the RE master plan, the study has recommended that NEA set up a separate
Directorate to provide a focus for RE programs (paras. 2.06 and 4.25). Further,
under the pr_posed Project an RE scheme would be carried out in the Marsyangdi
catchment which would provide a test case for the development of user
organizations for the management of RE schemes.
G. System Losses
2.25        System losses have been a critical problem affecting NEA's
operational and financial performance throughout its existence, with yearly
losses averaging 24-30? of gross generation during FY86-90. Technical and non-
technical losses have each contributed about half of the system losses. The
technical losses are caused primarily by improperly planned and inadequately
designed distribution systems, while improper billing, illegal connections and
incorrect metering are the primary causes of non-technical losses. These high
system losses cause NEA to lose substantial revenues and require larger tariff
increases to achieve agreed financial targets. Further, high technical losses
require NEA to either incur increased capital expenditure and attendant debt
service or operate inefficient, unreliable systems prone to load shedding.
2.26        Since its inception, NEA has taken numerous steps, assisted by ADB
and IDA, to reduce system losses through organizational changes, procurement of
meters, metering and reactive compensation equipment, and reinforcement of the



- 16 -
distribution system. Under Cr. 1478-NEP, with the assistance of British
Electricity International (BEI), NEA developed a 5-year, two phase system Loss
Reduction Program (LRP) to meet time-bound targets for the Kathmandu Valley,
which accounts for more than half of NEA's billings. Technical losses would be
reduced through a program of transformer relocation, reconductoring, phase
balancing and reactive power compensation. Non-technical losses, such as
pilferage, would be addressed through meter resealing coupled with rehabilitation
of inadequate service connections. Metering errors would be addressed through
testing and recalibration of three-phase and single phase meters, while billing
errors would be handled by improved procedures for meter reading and accounting.
The LRP is being implemented by CD/DCS's Loss Reduction Division which was set up
in 1990 to provide a focal point for all NEA commercial and loss reduction
activities. The first two years (Phase II) of the LRP is being implemented under
Cr. 1478-NEP and provides for: (a) resealing of 1002 of customer installations
and rehabilitating 40? of the electrical services; (b) phase balancing 60? of the
electrical services; (c) trial installation of 55 km of Aerial Bundled Conductors
(ABC); (d) equipping a meter test station in Kathmandu; and (e) upgrading
statistical metering at generation, import and export points. Although initial
progress was slow due to protracted delays in appointing consultants and
procuring equipment, implementation progress is now satisfactory. Phase III of
the LRP, to be also implemented under Cr. 1478-NEP, would continue Phase II in
the Kathmandu Valley and extend the successful elements to the rest of the
country. To complement the above effort, under technical assistance provided by
ADB, NEA has developed of an action plan to computerize its billing system which
would be implemented under ADB's Seventh Power Project. Further details on NEA's
Loss Reduction Action Plan are provided in Annex 2.5.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01        Due to the problems discussed previously the Project was formulated
as an outcome of dialogue between HMG/N and IDA to address power rehabilitation
investment needs and NEA's institutional development as well as to support
actions in energy conservation and assist in the implementation of the Marsyangdi
Catchment Management Pilot Project (MCMPP).
B. Project Objectives
3.02        The Project's primary objective would be to: (a) increase NEA's
effective supply capacity by improving technical and operational efficiency,
upgrading existing generation capacity and imi.roving the system load factor; (b)
restore NEA's financial viability and strengthen its institutional performance;
and (c) enhance energy conservation measures. l- ,ddition. the project would
address remaining environmental concerns arisi..g from the Marsyangdi
Hydroelectric Power Project (MHPP) (Cr. 1476-NEP) by supporting an innovative
approach to catchment management on a pilot ba-is.



- 17 -
C. Project Description
3.03        The proposed Project is summarized below.  Details of components (a),
(b), (d) and (e) are in Annex 3.1, component (g) in Annex 3.3 and component (f)
in Annex 3.2. The TORs for consultant services are in the project files. The
geographic locations of the Project's physical components are shown in Maps IBRD
22331 and 22780.
(a)  Generation Rehabilitation.  This includes the upgrading of the civil
works of the Trisuli and Devighat hydroelectric plants and the retro-
fitting of the Trisuli electro-mechanical equipment.
(b)  HV Reinforcement.  This includes investments to:  (i) increase the
66kV circuit capacity to improve voltage regulation and reliability:
(ii) upgrade the 66/llkV transformer capacity at existing substations
and construct two substations nearer the load centers in Kathmandu
(Teku and Bhaktapur); (iii) construct a 5 km 132 kV intertie between
the Marsyangdi and Kulekhani systems (see attached Map IBRD 22331) and
a 132 kV line from Bhaktapur to New Chabel (initially operated at
66kV); (iv) provide equipment, spare parts and tools for the Western,
Eastern and Bagmati transmission sections; and (v) construct a 132 kV
interconnection line between Duhabi and Kataiya to upgrade power
exchange capability with India.
(c) NEA Infrastructure/Buildings. This includes:
(i) NEA HQs. The provision of imported equipment such as
electrical/mechanical building services, communications equipment,
computers, filing and drafting systems and other appropriate
furnishings.
(ii) Workshops. The provision of spare parts, tools, cranes and
vehicles for NEA's mechanical and electrical workshops.
(iii) Training Center. The provision of pedagogical training equipment
together with consultant services to extend the current training
program.
(d)  Marsyangdi Catchment Management Plan.  The Project would finance
consultant services, materials and equipment necessary to implement a
pilot project in the Marsyangdi catchment. This program includes: (i)
a soil conservation and sediment reduction program; (ii) institutional
support to the Local Development Office (Lamjung District) of the
Ministry of Local Development and Department of Soil Conservation and
Watershed Management of the MFE; (iii) upgrading of the Dumre-
Besisahar road; ana (iv) electrification of the Besisahar area and
vicinity.
(e)  Industrial Energy Audits.  The proposed Project would finance
consultant services and equipment needed for the establishment of an
Energy Audit Unit within the Ministry of Industry which would provide
technical advisory services to assist local industries in implementing
energy conservation measures. It would also support NEA's efforts to
improve the system load factor by providing services and equipment to
upgrade NEA's load dispatch center and install low frequency relays,



- 18 -
load monitoring equipment, time of day metering and communications
equipment to be used for the load management program.
(f)  Technical Assistance.  In addition to physical works and equipment,
the proposed Project includes technical assistance in the form of:
(i) consultant services to assist NEA in the implementation of project
components (a), (b), (c) and (d(iv)) as well as feasibility and/or
detailed engineering studies for priority hydroelectric projects and
(ii) extension of NEA's ongoing training program and continuation of
the "twinning" support to NEA.
D. Pro3ect Cost
3.04       The Project's total cost, including physical and price contingencies,
duties and taxes is estimated at US$88.6 million, based on mid-1990 prices. It
comprises US$72.1 million in foreign exchange and US$16.5 million in local costs,
including US$4.0 million in taxes and duties. The unit costs are based on
recently signed contracts for comparable civil works and T&D projects, recent
quotations for spare parts and consultant estimates for the Trisuli-Devighat
electro-mechanical equipment. Physical contingencies are included at 152 of the
base cost for the civil works of Trisuli-Devighat and 10X for the other
components. Price contingencies for foreign costs are assumed et 3.42 for FY91
and 3.42 per year thereafter. Price contingencies for local costs are assumed at
112 for FY91, 11Z for FY92, 82 for FY93 and 6.52 per year in FY94 and FY95 and
6.OZ a year thereafter. The cost estimates are summarized below and detailed in
Annex 3.4.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
For-eign
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange
---- (Rupeo million)---  ----(USS million)---- %
A. Generation Rehabilitation       147.0   862.3 1009.3   3.4   20.2   28.6      86.4
B. HV Reinforcemnt                  92.1   651.9  644.0   2.2   12.9   16.1      86.7
C. NEA Infrastructure/Buildings     88.4   234.1  322.6   2.1    5.6    7.6      72.6
0. Marsyangdi Catchment Plan       106.7   260.0  886.7   2.6    6.8    9.0       72.6
E. Industrial Energy Audits          7.8   103.0  110.8   0.2    2.4    2.6      92.8
F. Technical Assistance             28.4   606.3  631.7   0.6   11.8   12.6      96.0
TOTAL BASE COST                467.4  2536.6 3004.0  10.9   69.4   70.4       84.4
Physical Contingencies          91.4   288.7  880.1   2.1    6.8    8.9       76.0
Prico Contingencies             146.3   263.6  S99.8   8.4    6.9    9.4      63.4
TOTAL PRO.ECT COSTS            705.1  3078.8 8378.9  16.5   72.1   88.6       81.4
Interest During Construction   490.7      .0  490.7  11.6      .0   11.5       .0
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED      1196.8  3078.8 4274.8  28.0   72.1  100.1    72.0
NOTES: 1.  Total physical contingencies are about 12X of base cost; local price contingencies are
about 26X and foreign price contingencies are about 9X of the rospective base cost plus
physical contingencios.
2.  Identifiable taxes and duties are about NRs 172.0 million (US84.0 million) and the total
Project cost, net of taxes is NRc 3611.9 million (US184.6 million equivalent).



- 19 -
E. Project Financing
3.05      The financing requirements, including interest during construction
(IDC) at an annual rate of 10.25Z, are USD$100.1 million, including
US$28.0 million in local costs and US$72.1 million in foreign costs. A proposed
IDA credit of US$65 million would finance 81% of the Project's foreign cost and
38Z of its local cost, equivalent to 77% of the total cost net of duties and
taxes. HMG/N has requested the Government of France (GOF) to provide
US$5.1 million equivalent for the NEA training component. The GOF has agreed to
fund the first tranche (US$0.,t. million equivalent); it is anticipated that
further financing will be discussed in future annual discussions between HMG/N
and GOF. The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) has agreed to provide SDR 4 million
(US$5.4 million equivalent) to finance spares and equipment for transmission and
the rural electrification component of the Marsyangdi Catchment Management Pilot
Project (MCMPP). The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany has agreed to
finance the components related to soil conservation, watershed management and
institutional support of the MCMPP. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with HMG/N on the cofinancing arrangements (para. 6.01(a)). The effectiveness of
the cofinancing agreement with the NDF is a condition of credit effectiveness
(para. 6.04(b)). NEA's accounting policy provides for capitalization of IDC
which is estimated to be US$11.5 million. NEA would finance US$18.8 million (19Z
of total financing). HMG/N would finance US$1.6 million representing part of the
local cost for the MCMPP (including the RE component) and for the industrial
energy audit component. HMG/N and NEA would bear the cost overrun risks. The
proposed financing plan is in Table 3.2. A more detailed plan is included in
Annex 3.8.
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent)
Local       Foreign        Total          Z
IDA                          6.3           58.7          65.0          65
Cof>.\ancing                 1.3           13.4          14.7          15
HMG/i;                       1.6                          1.6           2
NEA                         18.8                         18.8          18
TOTAL                       28.0           72.1         100.1         100
3.06      Tht Government would onlend US$60.8 million equivalent out of proceeds
of the proposed Credit to NEA at an interest rate of 10.25% repayable over a
period of 25 years, including a grace period of 5 years. The onlending rate is
expected to be positive in real terms (3.25Z-3.65Z) over the Project life and
includes a premium to reflect that HMG/N is bearing the foreign exchange risk.
The balance would be passed on as grants to the Ministries of Industry and Local
Development.
F. Project Engineering and Status of Preparation
3.07      NEA has prepared the following documentation with assistance from
consultants (funded tuder Cr. 1478-NEP and Cr. 1902-NEP) and agreed to undertake
several actions to expedite procurement of the Project physical items:
(a) Rehabilitation of the Trisuli/Devighat Complex. NEA/CIWEC have
completed a feasibility report on the options for rehabilitation of



- 20 -
the Trisuli/Devighat schemes and an economic study to determine the
recommended options for further development. During appraisal IDA
reviewee the feasibility report and agreed with NEA regarding the
works to be undertaken. The detailed engineering has been completed,
bids have been received for the civil works and electro-mechanical
components and are under evaluation.
(b) HV Transmission Reinforcement. NEA has prepared a proposal for urgent
reinforcements in the HV system with a detailed project description
and cost estimate. NEA has appointed EdF International (France) to
carry out project preparation and draft bidding documents.
Construction work of the HV transmission reinforcement needs to be
carefully planned and properly scheduled to minimize disturbance of
NEA operations. The bidding for the HV component is underway.
(c) Load Management. A draft report on load management options prepared
by the NEA/EdF was reviewed during appraisal. Subsequently, NEA with
assistance from EdF prepared an action plan with detailed cost
estimates for the implementation of load management measures over
1992/1996.
(d)  Industrial Energy Audit.  In November 1990 HMG/N submitted to IDA a
proposal to undertake an Energy Management Program for the Industry
Sector in Nepal. This included the creation of an Energy Audit Unit
within the Ministry of Industry. This unit will provide, over a five
year period, a range of technical support including audits and
training services towards the development of private sector expertise
in the local consulting and industry communities.
G. Project Implementation
3.08      NEA will be responsible for implementing the proposed Project with the
organization shown in Annex 3.5, except for the Energy Audic Program under the
responsibility of the MOI and the MCMPP for which primary responsibility would
lie with the Ministry of Local Development (para. 3.10). A Project Coordinator
with the rank of Director will coordinate the work with three Project Managers
and support staff as follows: (a) a Project Manager and two supervisory staff
from the Construction Directorate for the Trisuli/Devighat plants; (b) a Project
Manager and two supervising engineers from the Construction Directorate for the
Kathmandu transmission reinforcement project; and (c) the Director, Commercial
Department, for the load management component. All Project Managers would report
to the Project Coordinator who would also liaise with the Project Managers
appointed by the MOI for the energy audit program and by HMG/N for the MCMPP.
During negotiations NEA agreed on a schedule for contract signature for the hydro
rehabilitation works, the transmission reinforcement component and the MCMPP RE
component as well as recruitment of consultants for all project supervisory
tasks. The appointment of supervisory consultants as well as invitation of bids
for these components (paras. 6.04(c) and 6.04(d)) would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. A Project Coordinator has been appointed, and the final Project
implementation organization chart was agreed during negotiations (para. 6.03(d)).
3.09      With the exception of the hydro rehabilitation and HV transmission
reinforcement components, most of the other power work is relatively
straightforward and should be handled using NEA's own resources with some



_ 21 -
assistance from contractors (e.g. transportation to site, foundation works). The
power station rehabilitation work of the electrical/mechanical plant would be
handled on a turnkey basis by an equipment manufacturer who would be responsible
for installation and commissioning to ensure satisfactory performance during the
warranty period. Civil works rehabilitation would be handled by a contractor
engaged under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. The HV
transmission reinforcement component would be handled under one (or possibly two)
single responsibility contract, including the lines and the substations.
3.10      Responsibility for implementation of the Marsyangdi catchment
management has been assigned as follows:
(a)  the soil conservation and sediment control component would be
implemented by the Local Development Office (Lamjung) of the Ministry
of Local Development assisted by consultants with technical inputs
from the Department of Soil Conservation and Watershed Management
(DSCWM) of the MFE;
(b) the upgrading of the Dumre-Besisahar road would be implemented by DOR;
and
(c) the RE component would be implemented by NEA.
To coordinate these activities a Marsyangdi Catchment Development Committee (to
be designated as a subcommittee of the District Development Committee once it is
established) would be formed and chaired by the Lamjung District Local
Development Officer (where most activities would be concentrated) with members
comprising local representatives of MFE/DSCWM, NEA, DOR, other relevant
ministries and local user groups. To facilitate implementation of the MCMPP,
HMG/N agreed during negotiations that DOR would establish a project office and
employ a Project Manager for the Dumre-Besisahar road by August 31, 1992
(para. 6.01(b)).
3.11        With respect to the energy audit program, HMG/N agreed during
negotiations to establish a project office in the Ministry of Industry and
appoint a project manager by August 31, 1992 (para. 6.01(c)).
H. Procurement
3.12        Procurement arrangements for the project are shown in Table 3.3.  IDA
fi..anced goods, works and services required under the proposed Project would be
procured in accord with IDA guidelines; goods and works financed by other donors
will be procured in accord with their respective guidelines. There would be two
turnkey contracts (approximately US$10 million and US$2 million) for the supply
and erection of the HV lines and substations and two contracts for the Trisuli-
Devighat complex rehabilitation, one for electro-mechanical equipment of
US$12.5 million and one for civil works of approximately US$15 million.
Contractors for the Trisuli-Devighat civil works have been prequalified in accord
with IDA guidelines. Procurement of materials and equipment and of the turnkey
contracts would be on the basis of ICB, except for: (a) materials, tools,
equipment and spare parts (which are of a proprietary nature and can only be
manufactured by the original suppliers or their licensees) which would be
procured under direct contracting to the limit of US$5.0 million (of which IDA
would finance US$2.6 million, about 4Z of the proposed Credit); (b) transport of



- 22 -
materials, erection and commissioning of lines and distribution works, and a
small amount of materials, totalling US$2.5 million, which would be procured
under local competitive bidding (LCB); and (c) items available off-the-shelf,
which could be procured under local or international shopping procedures. Except
for the Trisuli-Devighat civil works, which would be procured under ICB, other
civil works are of a size that do not justify ICB and would be procured under LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA. International and local shopping would be allowed
up to US$75,000 per contract and US$600,000 in aggregate. For goods procured
under ICB, local manufacturers would be given a 152 price preference on CIF
prices or prevailing duties, whichever is lower. Consultants financed by IDA
would be appointed in accord with the IDA guidelines for use of consultants.
IDA's prior review of contracts would apply to: (i) all consultants services,
studies and training; (ii) all civil works above US$200,000 equivalent; and
(iii) materials and equipment above US$75,000 equivalent. This would cover over
802 of the procurement to be financed under the proposed Credit. Other contracts
would be subject to ex-post review by IDA.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US3 million)
Procurement Method             Total
Project Component                     ICB      LCB      Other    NA         Cost
A. Generation Rehabilitation
- Civil Works                         14.2     2.9                           17.2
(12.7)   (2.5)                         (15.3)
- Equipment                           13.3                                   18.8
(12.0)                                 (12.0)
B. HV Reinforcement
- 132 and 88 kV lines and             16.4                                   18.4
substation (Turnkey)               (14.8)                                  (14.8)
- Spares, Tools, Vehicles
and Equipment                                            3.6  I/            3.6
C. NEA Infrastructure/Buildings
- Civil Works                                  2.1         1.0  V/            3.2
(1. 9)                         (1. 9)
- Equipment, Vehicles,                 3.6                 3.0  2/            6.6
Tools                              (3.2)                                   (3.2)
D. Marsyangdi Catchment Plan
- Soil Conservation )
- Institutional Support )                                  4.9  S/            4.9
- Rural Electrification                                    3.0   /            3.0
- Dumre-Sesisahar Road                         3.6                            3.6
(3. 3)                         (3.3)
E. Industrial Energy Audits                                    3.3                3.3
(2.9)              (2.9)
F. Technical Assistance                                       13.6               13.6
(ll.S)             (11.e)
47.T 6   r 87W     32 388
(42.7)   (7.8)     (14.5)              (66.0)
NOTE  Figures in parentheses are the amounts proposed to be financed by IDA.
1/ Includes US33.0 million of HV spares and 1JSS2.4 million for Rural Electrification to be
financed by the Nordic Development Fund.
2/ Includes USS2.9 million of training equipment to be financed by France.
3/ Includes US84.2 million to be financed by Germany.



_ 23 -
I. Disbursement
3.13        Disbursements under the proposed Credit would be made as follows:
(a)  100Z of CIF cost of foreign expenditures for imported materials and
equipment. In the case of goods manufactured locally, 100Z of ex-
factory expenditure, and in the case of other goods procured locally,
702 of the expenditures;
(b) 100Z of foreign expenditures and 65Z of local expenditures for civil
works for the Trisuli-Devighat complex rehabilitation and the HV
reinforcement for lines and substations in Kathmandu to be awarded on
a turnkey basis;
(c) 652 of local expenditures for erection works and civil works to be
procured locally for workshops, infrastructure facilities and the
Dumre Besisahar Road; and
(d) 10OZ of total expenditures for consulting services.
To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be established in the Nepal
Rastra Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The initial deposit in
the account would be US$500,000 and cover all expenditures both local and foreign
less than US$50,000 equivalent. All other expenses above US$50,000 would be
submitted directly to IDA for payment. Itemized SOEs would be used for civil
works contracts less than US$200,000 equivalent, materials and equipment
contracts less than US$75,000 equivalent and all transportation contracts.
Documentation supporting these expenditures would be retained by NEA's Project
Coordinator's Office in Kathmandu for inspection by IDA supervision missions.
3.14        Based on the expected project implementation schedule (Annex 3.6),
the disbursement schedule (Annex 3.7) is based on completion of the proposed
Project by December 31, 1996, with a one year warranty after completion. The
Credit closing date would be December 31, 1997. The disbursement period is
expected to be 4.5 years, compared to the 8 year Bank profile for Nepal power
projects all of which were hydroelectric projects with large dams and lengthy
civil wurks contracts. Bids on all major works would be invited and consultants
appointed before Credit effectiveness. Moreover, most of the work is
rehabilitation and upgrading of existing facilities rather than new construction,
and the Project entails several discrete components which can be carried out in
parallel. It is expected that about 95? of disbursement for the proposed Project
will occur in the first 4.5 years, with the remaining 5? in the last year, mainly
to pay the contractors' retention monies. The proposed implementation and
disbursement schedules are considered to be realistic.
J. Development Impact
3.15        Environment.  The proposed Project is not expected to generate
appreciable ecological effects nor to have a major impact on the environment
since the bulk of the work concerns existing facilities. The Project would have
a positive environmental impact through the rehabilitation of generating plants,
primarily hydroelectric, and minimizing dependence on thermal generation. An
environmental assessment (EA) has been conducted of the Trisuli-Devighat



- 24 -
component as well as an initial environmental examination (IEE) of the HV
component. The EA includes an environmental action plan that was discussed and
agreed between NEA and IDA to ameliorate the Trisuli-Devighat's component's
environmental impacts relating to reclamation of the borrow pit and use of
commercial energy sources (kerosene, electricity) and firewood acquired from
legal sources by the civil works contractor. The EA established that no
landholdings would be affected by the Trisuli-Devighat component. The IEE
(prepared according to the Bank's environmental guidelines for transmission
lines) established that 42 households would need to be resettled including those
affected by the substations. NEA and IDA agreed on an acquisition/compensation/-
resettlement action plan under generic guidelines that NEA has developed for
transmission projects in accord with the norms developed under the Arun-III
Access Road Project (Cr. 2029-NEP). The MCMPP component will address
environmental concerns such as soil conservation and sediment reduction through
changing land use patterns in degraded land and improving the local inhabitants'
income. The project includes funding to implement the action plans.
3.16        Poverty Alleviation.  During the construction and civil works stages,
the proposed Project would provide direct employment to the local labor force,
including unskilled labor and women. Local employment would also be increased by
the economic activities set in motion by the backward and forward linkages to
improved electrical supply. The MCMPP component could have a special impact
because it is directed towards the most intensive users of the marginal lands
within the project area who tend to be the poorest residents. Improved land
productivity will lead to income and consumption gains for these very low income
earners. These are also the people who are most likely to benefit from job
opportunities created by micro enterprises resulting from rural electrification.
3.17       Women in Development.  As mentioned above, the proposed Project would
provide increased employment opportunities for women during both the construction
and civil works stages, particularly in the Kathmandu area, and through increased
economic activity linked to improved power supply. The MCMPP component would
directly benefit women (who are largely responsible for both herding livestock
and collecting fuelwood) through land management changes that increase the
availability of fuelwood and fodder on communal lands and move away from free
grazing towards the stall feeding of cattle. The MCMPP will also encourage the
adoption of horticulture as an income earning opportunity for women.
K. Project Monitoring
3.18        Project imp'lementation would be monitored by NEA with the assistance
of local and international consultants. NEA would submit quarterly reports and
other pertinent information to IDA. NEA would also coordinate with HMG/N to
ensure that timely information is provided to IDA in relation to the Energy Audit
Program and the MCMPP.  During negotiations, agreement was reached with NEA that
within six months of Project completion, NEA would prepare and furnish to IDA a
Project Completion Report on the Project's execution and initial operation costs
and benefits, NEA's performance and the accomplishment of the Credit's
objectives.



- 25 -
L. Risks
3.19        The main risks relating to components (a), (b), (c) and e(iv) concern
possible delays in Project implementation both in procurement and during
construction. To minimize procuremenit risks, the consultants assisting in bid
evaluation and supervising implementation would also be appointed before Credit
effectiveness. Based on past experience in Nepal, construction delays could
result from shortages of domestic financial resources and inadequate project
management and supervision. The former risk would be reduced by implementing
measures to enhance NEA's cost recovery, including reducing system losses,
improving the handling of consumer accounts and collections performance, and
otherwise increasing NEA's revenues.  Further, HMG/N made a commitment to a
tariff action program to ensure NEA's financial viaDility. Possible construction
delays would be minimized by ensuring effective Project management and
supervision through NEA's internal organization for the Project and hiring
consultants to assist NEA during Project implementation.
3.20       With respect to the remaining components, the major issue concerns
the MCMPP soil conservation and sediment reduction program. The approach used to
soil conservation has never been used in Nepal before; it depends on the
willingness of farmers to adopt new land management systems for marginal forestry
grazing land. If farmers fail to adopt these new measures the soil conservation
program may not be successful. Given the pilot nature of the project, its very
modest scale and the fact that other approaches to soil conservation in Nepal
have proved ineffective, the risk is acceptable.
IV. FINANCE
4.01        Although NEA's financial po3ition was satisfactory in the years
immediately following its formation in 1985 and it achieved a 5.6Z rate of return
in FY86, it financial performance has deteriorated since then, and its net income
has been negative every year since FY88 (para 4.09).  This deterioration reflects
NEA's inherent weaknesses in organization, management, administration and
financial functions (para 2.01, 2.02, 2.08 - 2.11) as well as previous
Governments' unwillingness to raise tariffs adequately. In addition, HMG/N's
continued interventions in NEA's day-to-day activities (para 2.01) have further
weakened its institutional base. As a result, NEA finds it difficult even to
manage its daily operations and has to depend heavily on HMG/N's budgetary
assistance for its investment needs. Should the present trend be allowed to
continue, NEA will not be able to contribute adequately to EMG/N's ambitious
power sector development program. The proposed Project would support a remedial
financial recovery program designed to restore NEA's financial viability and
establish NEA's capability to generate the revenues necessary to support its
development program during the 1990s.
4.02        The following sections explain NEA's financial data base and analyze
its past and present financial performance and position. The NEA financial
recovery program (para 4.19) and its projected impact on NEA's finances are then
explained. The analysis presented in this chapter is based on financial
statements (Annexes 4.3 to 4.5) derived from information available for FY86-92
and forecasts prepared for FY93-97. For analytical purposes, it is assumed that
the power investment program including the Arun Project will be implemented,
although, as discussed in para 1.24, this program is currently being reviewed,
and a program involving lower investments may be adopted.



- 26 -
A. NEA's Financial Data Base
4.03        NEA's latest audited accounts are for FY89V; however, the auditor's
report contains a large number of qualifications, many of which will require
further investigation (para.2.11) before the accounts can be corrected and may
eventually have a significant negative impact on NEA's financial position.
Although adjustments have been made for some of the auditor's comments, given the
accounting delays, inaccuracies, and absence of vital information, the FY89-91
financial statements presented in Annexes 4.2 to 4.5 should be considered as only
indicative of the state of NEA's finances. Steps have already been initiated by
HMG/N and NEA to have NEA's accounts reflect revaluation of assets, the
subsidiary loan agreements (SLAs) for all funds onlent to NEA since the latter's
incorporation in August 1985 and the transfer of Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Power
Project (MHPP) to NEA. While NEA's FY89 provisional accounts include revaluation
of assets, finalization of all SLAs will be reflected in NEA's FY90 accuua.ts and
the effect of the Marsyangdi Project's transfer in the FY91 accounts. Thus by
the time the FY91 accounts have been completed, all accounting adjustments will
have been finalized and incorporated in NEA's accounts. The progress in bringing
NEA's accounts up to date in each of these areas, which was accomplished during
the proposed Project's preparation, is discussed in the following three
subsections.
Revaluation of Assets
4.04        In accord with an agreement under the Marsyangdi Project (Cr. 1478-
NEP) and with funding provided by ADB, NEA employed Coopers and Lybrand Deloitte
(C&LD) to undertake a verification and revaluation of its fixed assets; the final
report was submitted to NEA in December 1990. The C&LD revaluation study,
however, excluded distribution systems for llkV and below, vehicles, small plant
and tools, customs duties and taxes, and IDC. Subsequently, as agreed during
appraisal, NEA, assisted by its twinning partner, EdF, carried out a verification
and valuation study of the remaining assets. NEA's FY89 financial statements
(provisional) include revaluation of a major part of the assets that were
considered within the scope of the C&LD study; the remaining assets (i.e., 11 kV
distribution system and below) have been recorded on an historical basis.
Necessary adjustments and corrections will be included while finalizing the FY90
accounts. For FY89, the impact of the revaluation on NEA's net fixed assets and
accumulated depreciation as adjusted is estimated to be as follows:
2/ The analysis presented in this chapter was completed prior to finalization
of FY89 accounts; information used is based on draft FY89 audited accounts.



- 27 -
Without Revaluation             With Revaluation
--   NRs Mil ------            -----NRs Mil----
Net Fixed Assets            4,671.2                       13,017.0
Accum. Depreciation           752.5                        4,205.4
In order to preserve assets with their correct valuation, during negotiations
HMG/N and NEA agreed that starting from FY89, NEA's fixed assets would be
revalued annually in accord with a method acceptable to IDA (para. 6.02(b)).
NEA's proposed methodology has been accepted by IDA and is described in Annex 4.1
(Attachment 1).
Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) and Unptid Debts
4.05       HMG/N has delayed preparing SLAs for funds onlent to NEA since its
incorporation. These lapses caused significant deficiencies in NEA's accounts,
and NEA's outstanding debt to HMG/N could not be correctly ascertained. In March
1990, IDA initiated a review of the financing of all projects (completed and
ongoing) for which funds had been onlent to NEA. Consultants (Beca Worley
International) were retained to assist the MOF in finalizing the incomplete SLAs
and to assess correctly NEA's outstanding debt to HMG/N. Following completion of
all SLAs between HMG/N and NEA, the report's findings have been reconciled and
adjusted. HMG/N has determined that NEA's total outstanding arrears on account
of unpaid debt service liability was NRs 133.6 million at the end of FY90.
Additionally, NEA's unpaid debt liability for the purchase of bulk power from the
recently completed Marsyangdi Project during the later half of FY90 has been
established at NRs 84.3 million. Thus, NEA's total debt liability to HMG/N,
because of arrears, was NRs 217.9 million at the end of FY90. During
negotiations an understanding was reached between HMG/N and NEA that this would
be partially offset by: (a) debt owed to NEA by HMG/N (NRs 34.9 million) and its
parastatals (NRs 58.1 million) for electricity consumption up to the end of FY90;
(b) compensation due to NEA because of the 152 reduction in the lifeline block
mandated by HMG/N during the T&T impasse (Rs. 41.4 million); and (c) HMG/N's debt
liability to NEA for energy consumed during the Marsyangdi Project's construction
phase (NRs 35.5 million). Subject to HMG/N's formal approval, NEA's net
outstanding debt to HMG/N as of the end of FY90 stands at NRs 48.0 million, and,
as agreed, this amount will be paid by the end of FY94.
4.06       In view of the past problems with delayed conclusion of SLAs, during
negotiations HMG/N and NEA agreed that they would conclude an SLA before any
future credit to NEA could be declared effective, whatever the credit's source of
financing (para. 6.02(c)). The proposed Credit's effectiveness would depend upon
HMG/N and NEA executing an SLA satisfactory to IDA for onlending the Credit
proceeds to NEA (para. 6.04(e)).
Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Power Project (MHPP)
4.07       The Marsyangdi Project was to be transferred to NEA at cost six
months after its commissioning, which occurred on January 16, 1990. Based on
figures provided by the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Development Board, the following
costs as of July 16, 1990 have been provisionally incorporated in the financial
statements presented in this chapter. As agreed, foreign costs have been
converted at the exchange rates prevailing at the time of disbursements.



- 28 -
NRs Million
Foreign Costs               4,906.2
Local costs, including
taxes and duties and
IDC                         474.4
TOTAL  5,380.6
During negotiations an understanding was reached that the above provisional costs
would be incorporated in NEA's accounts as from July 16, 1990 and that, if
necessary, the accounts would be adjusted later when the project's final cost was
determined. In accord with that understanding, the final project cost to be
recorded in NEA's accounts will reflect that the civil contractor's claim has
subsequently been settled at about US$5.0 million.
B. NEA's Past Performance and Present Position
Past Earnings Performance
4.08         Credit 1478-NEP required NEA to earn rates of return on historically
valued assets of 5.5Z in FY86 and 62 thereafter. NEA achieved a rate of return
of 5.8Z in FY86; however, NEA's earnings performance has deteriorated since then,
and NEA has failed to meet the covenant.
4.09         The salient features of NEA's operating performance during FY86-92
can be summarized as follows:
1986    1987      1988   1989    1990    1991   1992
(--------auditedd-------7 (pre audit) (Tot.)  (out.)  -eat.)
Energy Generation (OWh)          431.0    640.6   661.1   668.6   476.9  837.8   912.0
Egy. Purchased - HMG/N (OWh)       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   232.0    0.0    40.0
Egy. Purchased - India (GWh)      58.1     30.9    68.0   116.8    60.2   83.0         9.0
Gross Systems Losses (K)          30.3     28.1    26.4    26.2    28.7   23.7    25.0
Egy. Sales - Nepal (GWh)         319.5    390.2   448.6   478.6   624.2  688.6   686.0
Egy. Sales - India (OWh)          21.6     20.8    18.0    17.6    23.3   76.8    84.8
Ave. Rev/kWh  (NRs/kWh)            1. 16    1.15    1.22    1.89    1.38   1.38    1.94
Increase in Av. Rev. Rate                  -1.56    6.0o   14.6%   -1.OX   0.0   40.65
Operating Income (NRs Mill)      143.3    156.4   135.8   114.0  -266.8  -265.6   -82.2
Interest Payment (NRr Mil)       103.2    120.8   126.8   137.7   133.6  125.1   158.4
Net Income (NRs Mil)              37.8     12.3    -6.6    -0.1  -400.7  -390.6  -236.8
Operating Ratio (X)               63.4     68.9    78.6    84.3   134.0  127.6   106.8
Rate of Return 1/                  6.8      4.4      3.0      1.3    -2.0   -1.6    -0.4
Debt Service Coverage Ratio 2/     1.6      1.2      1.8      1.6     1.9    2.7       3.6
Current Ratio                      0.9      1.5      1.8     1.1      1.1    1.5       2.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                 46/54   34/68    29/71   11/89   10/90  37/68   88/62
1/ On revalued assets from FY89.
2/ Estimated debt service coverage ratios for FYs 90 and 91 are high at 2.7 and 3.6 respectively.
These are In accord with the Financial Recovery Plan (para. 4.21) wherein MHPP's debt is
deferred until FY93; consequently, NEA's debt service requirements (without debt on account of
MHPP)); are low and the debt service coverage ratios are unusually high.



- 29 -
Although during the period FY86-91 NEA's sales have increased steadily, high
energy losses, unsatisfactory tariff policies, poor operational management, and
the T&T impasse's impact have all affected NEA's earnings since incorporation,
and net losses have been incurred in the last four fiscal years. The figures
indicate that annual overall energy losses as a percentage of generation and
power purchases have ranged between 242 and 30Z. Actual systems losses may have
been even higher due to poor metering at the generation stations. The main
causes of the high losses are system overloading, faulty metering and theft
(para. 2.25). The failure to increase tariffs between May 1988 and November 1991
and a 15Z reduction in the lifeline rate for 16 months in FY89-90, combined with
NEA's inefficiencies, account for the present unsatisfactory state of NEA's
finances.
Past Financing Performance
4.10        NEA's investment financing pattern during FY86-91 was as follows:
NRs Million          z
Funds Required
Capital Investment                         12,283             99
Interest During Construction                   86             1
Total Funds Required                     12,369           100
Sources of Funds
Total Internal Cash Generation              1,813
Add: Consumer Contribution                      70
Less: Debt Service                          1,031
Increase in Working Capital             255
Total Internal Sources                        597             5
HMG/N's Equity Contribution                 2,958            24
Grants from Donors                          1,523            12
Long Term Debts                             7,291            59
Total Sources                            12,369           100
The figures indicate that NEA self-financed about 5Z of its investment program
during FY86-91. About 24Z of NEA's investments were financed by HMGIN
contributions; finances for the remaining 71Z came from external sources--about
59Z from long term borrowings and about 122 from grants. Debt service coverage
has varied between 1.2 to 1.93/ times and appears to have been adequate.
However, in the absence of agreed onlending terms between HMG/N and NEA, debt
recording and the concomitant debt service requirement in the past has been
incorrect (para. 4.05). If NEA had serviced its debt correctly, actual debt
service coverage would have been lower than indicated.
3/   Except for FY91 when the debt service coverage ratio was high at 2.7.;
Please see Note 2/ under the table (para 4.09).



- 30 -
Present Financial Position
4.11        NEA's current (FY92) financial position continues to remain
unsatisfactory. However, the summary operating performance table (para 4.09)
indicates expected marginal improvements over FY91. These have been possible
primarily because of the 612 tariff increase made effective from mid-November
1991 and other financial recovery measures presently under implementation (paras
4.05 and 4.07). The current tariff levels, which reflect an increase in the
average revenue rate from NRs 1.38/kWh in FY91 to NRs 1.94/kWh in FY92, are
expected to enable NEA to comply with the agreed revenue covenant (para 4.23)
during FY92.
4.12        NEA's capitalization at the end of FY92, taking into account the
revaluation of fixed assets and the proposed adjustments on debt arrears, is
expected to be as follows:
NRs Million
Total Fixed Assets                         25,175
Investments                                     8
Deferred Charges                            1,039
Current Assets            828
Less: Current Liability  370                  458
26,680
Financed by:
Equity                                     16,430
Long Term Debt                             10,250
26,680
After revaluation of assets and a high degree of equity financing, NEA's
debt/equity ratio of 38/62 at the end of FY92 would be low, and if other aspects
of NEA's finances were normal, NEA would have a comfortable margin for further
borrowing.
Accounts Receivable
4.13        During the period FY86-90, NEA's current ratio4/ improved from 0.9
to 1.5. However, NEA's liquidity has been seriously affected by the excessive
amount of accounts receivable, which increased from NRs 120.5 million at the end
of FY86 (i.e. about 3.8 months of FY86 sales) to about NRs 356.6 million at the
end of FY90 (i.e. about 5.6 months of FY90 sales). With unreconciled consumer
ledgers and inappropriate consumer accounting practices followed, NEA's revenue
accounts are in disarray. In order to correct this situation, an "Action Plan
for Reducing Consumer Receivables" was prepared and agreed with IDA during
project preparation and is now under implementation. This plan consists of a
methodical approach to ensure that within one year: (a) all consumer ledgers are
updated; (b) correct consumer accounting procedures are rigorously enforced;
4/ Current ratio is the ratio between current assets (including accounts
receivables) and current liabilities.



- 31 -
(c) aging analysis is done; and (d) collection performance is monitored and
maintained at satisfactory levels. NEA's accounts receivable are classified into
three categories: (a) HMG/N offices and departments; (b) parastatals; and (c)
others (including the Government of Bihar and the Bihar State Electricity Board).
4.14        HMG/N Offices and Departments.  Under Credit 1478-NEP, HMG/N was
required to submit to IDA by January 31, 1986, a proposal to ensure that
electricity bills owed by HMG/N and its agencies would be settled within two
months of receipt. NEA submitted an action plan in FY87 but it was never
implemented. More recently, as a condition for the ADB 7th Power Loan, HMG/N
agreed with ADB that it would settle within four years its arrears as of the end
of FY87. Furthermore, HMG/N agreed with ADB to have government departments
settle future bills for electricity supplies on a current basis, by relating
budget releases to the payment of the previous allocation for electricity bills.
A significant amount of HMG/N's overdue amount was cleared in FY90; as a result
HMG/N's dues to NEA were reduced from 36 months (end FY87) to about 6 months (end
FY90). As part of NEA's financial recovery program, during negotiations an
understanding was reached that dues from HMG/N's offices and departments
totalling NRs 34.9 million at the end of FY90 would be set off against NEA's
unpaid debt service arrears to HMG/N at the end of FY90 (para. 4.05).  HMG/N also
agreed to ensure that starting in FY92, government subscribers would remit all
their electricity charges to NEA within three months from receiving the bills
(para. 6.01(d)).
4.15        Parastatals and Non-Governmental Consumers.  At the end of FY90,
these groups are estimated to have owed NEA a cumulative total of
NRs 321.6 million (equivalent to about 6 months of FY90 sales). As a part of
NEA's financial recovery program, during negotiations an understanding was
reached that cumulative dues from parastatals totalling NRs 58.1 million at the
end of FY90 (equivalent to about 10 months of FY90 sales) would be set off
against NEA's unpaid debt service arrears to HMG/N (para. 4.05). It was also
agreed that starting in FY93 arrears from parastatals and non-governmental
consumers would be maintained at three months of annual sales (para. 6.03(e)).
C. Tariffs
4.16        Its Act authorizes NEA to develop electricity tariff recommendations
for HMG/N's approval. After review by NEA's Board, proposals are submitted to
the MOWR and then to the MOF, and finally to the Cabinet for approval. Thus far
this procedure has not been based on detailed analytical reviews because of NEA's
unsatisfactory, tardy accounting (paras. 2.08 and 2.09); accurate statistical
information of the kind essential for the formulation of a tariff policy has also
been lacking. NEA needs to improve its tariff making procedures and incorporate
regular tariff reviews in an annual corporate development planning cycle; this
should be supported by the results of a quarterly review by the Finance
Department on the adequacy of tariffs to meet NEA's revenue requirements. During
negotiations it was agreed that by May 31 each year, NEA would submit to IDA for
approval, details of its Investment Program for the three following years with a
related financing plan and annual forecast financial statements, indicating the
measures (including tariff adjustments) proposed to meet the requirements of the
revenue covenant. It was also agreed that during the execution of the agreed
Investment Program, NEA would not undertake any new investments estimated to cost
more than US$5.0 million, not included in the program, without IDA's approval
(para. 6.03(f)). Furthermore, to avoid unnecessary duplication of scarce



- 32 -
resources that existed prior to NEA's creation, during negotiations HMGIN agreed
that all future projects in the power sector financed solely by HMG/N will be
included in NEA's Investment Program (para. 6.01(e)).
4.17        Over the last decade HMG/N has been reluctant to make timely,
adequate power tariff increases, and the increases made have failed to match the
additional costs of producing electricity, contributing to :EFA's poor financial
performance.  Since incorporation in August 1985, NEA has had three tariff
increases the first of about 22t effective September 17, 1985 followed by a
second of about 18? sffective May 15, 1988, and a third of abLit 61Z effective
November 17, 1991. In April 1989, because the T&T impasse cau ed steep increases
in fossil fuel prices (202 to 50Z) and made supplies unreliable, HMG/N mandated a
reduction in domestic electricity tariffs by 152 for the first 250 kWh consumed
per month for all consumers with consumption of less than 500 kWh/month. This
subsidy was removed in August 1990. HMG/N has agreed to compensate NEA for the
revenue losses incurred during FY90 totalling NRs 41.4 million by adjusting NEA's
arrears in debt service payments to HMG/N (para. 4.05). The short period (about
a month) for which the subsidy was in effect during FY91 will also be adjusted in
the FY91 accounts.
4.18        Because of its unsatisfactory financial performance, NEA has to
depend very heavily on HMG/N budgetary allocations for both its investment
program needs and operational expenditure requirements. Following a
recommendation made in the 1988 IDA/ADB Power Subsector Review (para 1.23), HMG/N
reviewed NEA's financial objectives and decided that in the longer-term, NEA
should be responsible for self-financing an appropriate proportion of the local
costs of its investment program. Accordingly, NEA is required to increase
progressively its share of financing the local costs of its investment program;
the May 1988 Power Subsector Donor Meeting (para. 1.25) endorsed this approach.
The adoption of a cash generation target was considered appropriate because it
would focus NEA financial management measures on the need to minimize the impact
of financing NEA's investment program on the national budget.
D. Financial Recovery
4.19        With increasing net losses in each of the past three financial years,
NEA does not currently have the financial strength to support its FY93-97
development program, which would increase its fixed assets twofold over FY91. To
correct this situation, in addition to radically improving operational efficiency
and financial management, stiff financial measures will be required to bring
NEA's earnings to an acceptable level and reduce the heavy burden which NEA has
been imposing on the national budget. Because NEA's financial situation is so
critical, a two year (FY92-93) financial recovery program has been developed that
is expected to enable NEA move towards an acceptable overall level of financial
performance. The main elements of this program are improvements in operational
efficiency, an adjustment in the repayment schedule for NEA's Marsyangdi Project
debt and phased tariff increases. The revenue covenants agreed with HMG/N and
NEA for the proposed Project, along with the agreed financial recovery measures,
are expected to cause a progressive turn around in NEA's dismal financial state
and enable it to become a viable financial entity.



- 33 -
Operational Efficiency
4.20        NEA's operational efficiency has been unsatisfactory (para. 2.04) and
had significant negative impacts on its financial performance. NEA is
undertaking a three-pronged approach to improve its overall operational
efficiency through implementing (a) a systems loss reduction program; (b) an
action plan for reducing consumer receivables; and (c) a Performance Contract
with HMG/N. The loss reduction program incorporates organizatJonal changes,
procurement of meters, metering and reactive compensation equipment, and
reinforcement of the distribution system under the n'going Marsyangdi Project
(Cr. 1478-NEP) (para. 2.26). The action plan for reducing consumer receivables
(para 4.13) agreed with IDA under this Project is currently under implementation.
The proposed Project also requires NEA to enter into a three year rolling
Performance Contract (PC) with HMG/N (para 2.06) that would include detailed
targets reflecting improvements in NEA's operating efficiency. These would
address inter alia: auxiliary consumption, staff productivity ratios, and other
relevant financial performance indicators. It is envisaged that these activities
will have major impact on improving NEA's operational efficiency, including
reducing system losses from about 292 in FY90 to 24Z in FY93, and eventually to
21% by FY97, and accounts receivable from the equivalent of 5.6 months average
billings in FY90 to 3 months in FY93, and maintain them at that level thereafter.
Adjustment in the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Project Debt Repayment
4.21        Starting FY91, NEA was supposed to have begun servicing the
Marsyangdi Project debt of about NRs 531 million annually. NEA's financial
position did not permit it to service this debt during FY91, and for NEA to begin
servicing this debt in FY92 as well to compensate for previous financial
management deficiencies, the required one-time tariff adjustment was politically
unacceptable to the newly elected government. ILIA agreed with HMG/N's request to
phase the required tariff increase and accordingly accepted a proposal to
reschedule the Marsyangdi Projects debt service requirements. Under this
proposal, NEA will not be required to service its Marsyangdi Project loan during
FY91-92, and at the end of FY92, the outstanding debt and the accrued interest
for FY91-92 will be rescheduled over the remaining 28 years of the loan maturity.
Phased Tariff Increases
4.22        Improvements in NEA 's operational efficiency and rescheduling of the
Marsyangdi Project debt combined with phased tariff increases will enable NEA to
achieve appropriate levels of cash generation.  In the past NEA's tariffs have
always been well below acceptable levels, and the resulting financial performance
has not been satisfactory. As a first step in NEA's financial recovery program,
in November 1991 HMG/N raised power tariffs by a weighted average of 61z.  A
second increase of about 42Z, effective July 16, 1992 will be necessary to
achieve the recovery program's objectives. As indicated in para 4.25, more
moderate tariff increases will be required during the remainder of the 1990s to
maintain and further strengthen NEA's financial viability.
Financial Covenants
4.23        To meet the financial recovery program's objectives and ensure that
NEA contributes an adequate proportion of the local component of its investment
program from internally generated funds as well as adequate levels of cost
recovery, two reinforcing financial covenants have been agreed with HMG/N and



- 34 -
NEA. Thus, under the proposed Project both cash generation and rate of return
targets would be the driving forces of NEA's financial management measures.
During negotiations HMG/N and NEA agreed that staring in FY92, NEA would charge
tariffs at least sufficient to produce revenues that would cover cash operating
expenses, debt service requirements, additional non-cash working capital
requirements and NEA contribution to the local costs of its investment program
(including IDC) of 45Z (FY92), 5OZ (FY93), 55Z (FY94), 60% (FY95), 65% (FY96) and
70% (FY97). HMG/N and NEA also agreed that starting in FY96, NEA would take all
measures (including tariff increases) necessary to produce annual rates of return
on revalued assets of not less than 5Z in FY96 and 62 thereafter (para. 6.02(d)).
These targets are less than the prevailing and expected opportunity cost of
capital in Nepal over the period under review. However, the financial forecasts
up to FY97 indicate that the targets would be sufficient to enable NEA to
generate enough internal funds to meet the local cost shares of its investment
program indicated above, and are therefore considered adequate. In any given
year from FY96 onwards, NEA would need to adjust its tariffs and take other
measures necessary to achieve the higher of revenue generation requirements of
the relevant internal cash generation and rate of return targets.
E. NEA's Future Financial Performance
4.24        The following forecasts (FY93-97) of NEA's financial performance
assume that the policies outlined in the previous sections plus operational
efficiency increases relating to loss reduction (paras. 2.26) and accounts
receivable (paras. 4.13-4.15) will be fully implemented. The forecast financial
statements (Annexes 4.2-4.5) are based on assumptions included in Annex 4.1.
FY                         1993   1994    1995    1996    1997
-----------Forecast---------------------
Energy Generation (GWh)                  980.0  1003.0  1034.0  1082.0  1163.0
Energy Purchased - HMG/N (CWh)           42.0    43.0    44.0    44.0    44.0
Energy Purchasod - India (GWh)           27.0    67.0    99.0  18.0   176.0
Gross System Losses (X)                  24.0    23.0    22.1    21.5    21.0
Energy Sales- Nepal (GWh)               746.0   809.0   874.0   964.0  1036.0
Energy Salos- India (GWh)                87.0    40.3    42.9    48.1    48.9
Avg. Rev/kWh (NR*/kWh)                   2.76    2.98    8.51    4.61    6.22
Increase in Avg. Rev. Rate              41.7%    8.6%   17.5X   31.3X   13.3X
Operating Income (NRa Mil.)              466.6   614.3   787.8  1831.0  2690.6
Interest Payment (NRs Mul.)             874.9   887.7  1026.2  1147.8  1464.3
Not Income (NRc Mit)                    -418.3  -273.4  -268.6   409.9   681.8
Operating Ratio (X)                      78.8    76.8    78.0    66.8    81.7
Rate of Return (X) 1/                     2.0    2.6      2.9     6.1     8.2
Debt Service Coverage Ratio               1.4    1.6      1.8     2.0    2.1
Current Ratio                             1.8    1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8
Debt Equity Ratio                        40/60    42/58   42/68   46/64   49/61
4.25        The forecasts indicate that following the initial tariff increases in
FY92 and FY93 discussed in para 4.22, NEA's tariffs would need to be increased
during FY94-97 as follows to achieve the covenanted financial performance
targets; FY94 - 8.6Z; FY95 - 17.5Z; FY96 - 31.3Z; FY97 - 13.3Z. Even with these
tariff increases, financial recovery will not be immediate, and it is expected
that NEA would continue to have annual net losses through FY95 and would only
achieve an acceptable rate of return on revalued assets of above 5Z in FY96 and
improve thereafter. Also, in view of the tariff sensitivity to fuel charges,
during negotiations it was agreed that in the future, NEA's tariffs would



- 35 -
automatically be adjusted to take into account changes in fuel costs (para.
6.02(e)).
4.26        NEA is on the threshold of a major planned expansion program; its
assets are projected to increase from about NRs 30 billion at the end of FY93 to
more than NRs 50 billion at the end of FY97. In financing this expansion, long-
term debt is expected t. increase from about NRs 12 billion in FY93 to more than
NRs 28 billion by FY97.  With heavy borrowing for NEA's proposed investment
program, its debt/equity ratio is expected to increase from 40/60 at the end of
FY93 to 49/51 at the end of FY97; however, NEA would still have a margin for
further borrowing at that time. Over the next five years (FY93-97), the debt
service coverage of between 1.4 and 2.1 times would be adequate subject to the
covenanted tariff increases. With the new financing pattern emerging as future
capital assets are expected to be increasingly financed by debt, the debt
servicing position should be monitored. During negotiations it was agreed that,
except as IDA shall otherwise agree, NEA will not incur any debt unless the
greater of (i) its actual net revenues for the fiscal year immediately preceding
the date of such incurrence or (ii) projected net revenues for any later twelve-
month period is at least 1.3 times the maximum debt service for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt incurrence by NEA (para. 6.02(f)).
4.27        NEA's current ratio position projected for FY93-97 would be around
1.8 and is considered adequate. In view of the importance of maintaining an
adequate current ratio, during negotiations HMG/N agreed to provide NEA with any
required additional working capital by way of equity contribution (para.
6.01(f)).
4.28        NEA's projected FY93-97 investment requirements and the expected
financing sources are as follows:
NRs Million          z
Funds Required
Capital Investment                     29,428           91.8
Interest During Construction            2,631            8.2
Total                                  32,058          100.0
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation               11,783
Add: Consumer Contribution                 97
Less: Debt Service                      6,640
Increase in Working Capital         564
Internal Sources                        4,675           14.6
HMG/N's Equity Contribution             2,982            9.3
Grants from Donors                      4,880           15.2
Long Term Debt                         19,521           60.9
Total                                  32,058          100.0



- 36 -
It is expected that external sources would finance about 76Z of the total
investment requirements during the period, including grants (152) and borrowings
(61?). HMG/N is expected to finance about 92 and NEA about 152 from its internal
sources.
F. Rural Electrification (RE)
4.29       HMG/N requires NEA to charge uniform tariffs throughout the country
even though NEA is obliged to provide service to unprofitable rural areas. The
losses in rural areas, which are a drain on NEA's financial resources, will
become heavier as RE activities expand. During negotiations it was agreed that
NEA will: (i) by January 15, 1993, set up a separate Directorate to manage the
RE program; and (ii) identify concerned areas and, as from July 16, 1993,
maintain separate accounts showing the annual results for such operations
(para. 6.03(g)). Furthermore, during negotiations HMG/N also agreed that after
July 15, 1993, it will reimburse NEA for the annual losses incurred in its rural
electrification operations (para. 6.01(g)).
G. Evaluation Committee
4.30        In accord with usual practice, plants and works executed by HMG/N and
later transferred to NEA have been subject to appraisal by ad hoc evaluation
committees formed by HMG/N which have determined the transferred assets' values.
In the past these committees have often been convened long after the commercial
operation of the plant, and the valuation methodologies have not followed
standard accounting practices. Such delays in asset valuation have further
delayed finalization of SLAs, and consequently the resulting uncertain debt
liability of NEA to HMG/N has put NEA's accounts in jeopardy. Since NEA has been
established as the sole public sector enterprise responsible for planning,
construction and operation of all power facilities in Nepal, such committees will
be unnecessary in the future. During negotiations it was agreed that all future
projects in the power sector financed solely or partly by HMG/N will be
constructed by NEA; convening such evaluation committees on ad hoc basis will
therefore no longer be necessary (para. 6.01(h)).
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Electricity Demand Forecasts
5.01        Total electricity sales in Nepal increased at an average annual rate
of 12.0? during FY76-91; during FY84-91 sales increased to 13.2X per annum
(Annex 5.1). Since FY84, the fastest growing categories 6/ were sales to
commercial and non commercial (22.82), irrigation and transport (18.52),
industrial (12.6? p.a.) and residential (10.72) consumers. Since 1976, the share
of total sales to industrial consumers increased from 30Z to 35? while the share
5/ NEA's tarif classification was changed in April 1983; since then the
commercial sector includes: (a) starred hotels; and (b) schools,
shops, supermarkets, hospitals, offices, etc. that previously came
under "residential" and irrigation, water supply and transportation
(previously covered under "commercial") are reported separately.



- 37 -
to residential consumers fell from 58? to 45Z. Because of load shedding in the
early and late 1980's there has been no definite trend in the load factor. The
increasing share of industrial consumption indicated some improvement, but the
recent rapid increase in the number of residential connections counteracted this
trend (Annex 2.6). Although the numbers of industrial and commercial consumers
grew more rapidly than residential consumers, the latter still account for more
than 95? of NEA's customers. Over the whole period, the total number of
consumers rose from 78,300 to 318,500 (Annex 5.2), representing an average of
about 16,000 new connections a year (9.8? p.a.); the pace of adding new household
connections quickened since 1984 averaging about 25,000 p.a. This rapid rate of
new connections was the driving force behind the increase in electricity
consumption in Nepal's power system.
5.02        Nepal Interconnected System.  NEA with the assistance of its
consultants, EdF, developed a load forecast in 1989 for the Nepal interconnected
system. The methodology employed a disaggregated approach which links the future
evolution of present consumption patterns with macroeconomic factors determining
demand in the main sectors, except the domestic sector (see Annex 5.3). In the
domestic sector, the load forecast is based on the number of new connections
added per year as well as the consumption patterns of new and mature consumers;
in the other sectors the basic indicator was economic production consistent with
the national GDP, taking into account the projected evolution of each sector's
energy intensity factor. Three scenarios were considered for future supply
(high, medium and low) built on consistent assumptions. Regarding the economy
and the development of electrification throughout the country, the main factors
defining the scenarios were based on the short- and medium-term impacts of the
then ongoing T&T impasse between Nepal and India. The medium load-forecast was
chosen because it was based on the assumption that the T&T impasse would be
resolved in the first half of 1990 which actually occurred. The load forecast
shows Nepal's total sales increasing at 9.42 per year during FY1991-2001, and
8.5? a year during FY2001-2011. The projected decrease in the annual sales
growth compared to historical trends reflects the projected major extension of
service to new consumers, principally in the rural residential sub-sector, where
consumers have a low initial demand for electricity.
5.03        The load forecast also assumes that gross system losses will be
reduced progressively from 25? in FY92 to 15? in FY2011 and subsequently remain
at that level. Bulk sales would consist of the export to India of 35 GWh in FY92
growing at 10? a year thereafter, up to the Arun Project's scheduled
commissioning (FY2002). Thus, due to the reduction in losses, units generated
are projected to increase at an average annual rate of 8? until FY2001, and 7.9?
until FY2011. The overall load factor is expected to increase from below 50? in
FY90 to about 60Z in FY2000 and subsequently remain at that level (Annex 5.3).
This is because of the complementary effects of projected increases in industrial
sales (which improve the load factor) coupled with the implementation of a
vigorous load management program including a time-of-day tariff structure and
possible load shedding. Peak demand is projected to increase from 207 MW in FY91
to 764 MW in FY2010/11.
B. Least Cost Alternative
5.04        NEA prepared the proposed Project to:  (a) rehabilitate/upgrade the
35 MW Trisuli-Devighat hydroelectric plant; and (b) reinforce/upgrade existing
T&D facilities in the Kathmandu valley and in the Terai. The assumptions used



- 38 -
and the calculations made were reviewed by IDA and found to be satisfactory;
specifically, the rehabilitation of the generating plants was found to be least
cost.
C. Economic Rate of Return
5.05        Methodology.  The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) has been
estimated for: (a) the entire Project (except for the components relating to the
implementation of the MCMPP and the energy audits of major industries which
mainly -nsist of technical assistance); and (b) the rehabilitation of the
Trisuli-_,evighat power plants. The components evaluated account for
approximately 80Z of total Project costs. In each case, the costs and benefits
were measured in terms of mid-1991 prices. All foreign costs were expressed in
terms of their equivalent border prices; local costs, net of IDC, duties and
taxes were expressed in terms of equivalent border prices using the standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.90. For the entire Project, the EIRR was estimated
on two bases: first, using the current average tariff rate (NRs 2.256) as a proxy
for benefits and, second, estimating economic benefits in terms of the sum of (a)
consumers' willingness to pay (WtP) for incremental electricity sales within
Nepal and (b) export of energy to India averaged on the basis of NRs 1.856 per
kWh. To ensure consistency in the evaluation of benefits, sales within Nepal
were adjusted by a SCF of 0.9, while exports to India (which are paid for in
Indian currency) were adjusted by a SCF of 1.0. As explained in Annex 5.6, the
WtP has been estimated on the basis of electricity consumption patterns before
and after electrification. The EIRR for the entire Project was estimated for the
period FY92-2020. For the Trisuli-Devighat upgrading component, the benefits
considered were those derived from the incremental output due to its
rehabilitation and upgrading. (Details of the economic analysis are provided in
Annexes 5.6 to 5.8).
5.06        Economic Rate of Return.  Using current average tariffs as a proxy
for benefits, the return is estimated to be about 2.4Z for the time-slice of
NEA's investment program (see Table 5.1 of Annex 5.7); based on WtP (estimated
weighted value:  NRs 13.5/kWh) the EIRR is 18.1Z (Table 5.1, Annex 5.7).    The
above revenue-based measure of the return is more an evaluation of the adequacy
of tariffs than of the true economic worth of the proposed investment. Since the
revenue-based estimate of the EIRR for the "time slice" is less than the
estimated opportunity cost of capital of 1OZ, this indicates that the average
tariff rate is below the LRMC of power supply (para. 1.16). The EIRR based on
WtP is a lower bound estimate because numerous benefits have been excluded such
as: (a) the investment program includes the first stage of the two-stage AHP (the
costs of which have been front loaded) and excludes the benefits that would
accrue from the second stage, which is to be commissioned in FY2006; (b) the use
of the AHP 192 km access road by the inhabitants of and tourists to the Arun
Valley; (c) those derived from the training activities and other NEA
institutional development activities; and (d) those derived from the improved
reliability and quality of supply.
5.07        The adjusted EIRR for the upgrading of the Trisuli-Devighat power
plants was not calculated using tariffs as a proxy for benefits because of the
difficulty of defining the consumers benefiting from the incremental generated
power. The EIRR for the upgrading of the Trisuli-Devighat plants was estimated
involving the benefits in terms of the LRMC of generation (net) derived from the



- 39 -
time slice analysis (NRs 3.355 kWh). Assuming a useful life of 30 years with no
salvage value, the EIRR is estimated to be 26.5? (see Annex 5.8, Table 5.3).
D. Sensitivity Analysis.
5.08        Sensitivity analyses were carried out for the WtP-based measure of
EIRR for the "timte s1ice" analysis and for the LRMC measure of the rehabilitation
of the Trisuli-Devighat power plants, to ascertain the robustness of the Project
economic viability to changes in key Project parameters. The results of the
sensitivity analysis for the "time-slice" analysis are shown in Annex 5.7, Table
5.2 and Figure 5.1. The analysis indicates that an increase of 1252 in the
Project cost would be required to make its EIRR equal to the assumed opportunity
cost of capital (10Z) while a decrease in the value of WtP by over 50Z together
with a similar decrease in the export benefits would lower the Project EIRR to
11.4%, still above the opportunity cost of capital (10?). With respect to the
upgrading of the Trisuli-Devighat plants, investment costs would have to increase
by more than 200? or benefits would have to decrease by more than 65% for its
EIRR to decrease to 1OZ. Moreover, if its benefits were only based on firm
energy, its EIRR would still exceed 20Z. The sensitivity analysis shows that the
EIRR estimates are robust, insensitive to fuel prices and exports value (see
table 5.2).
E. Justification for Bank Group Involvement
5.09        In addition to assisting HMG/N's efforts in meeting Nepal's demand
for energy at least cost by improving the efficiency, reliability and quality of
NEA's power supply, the proposed Project would, through IDA's involvement:
(a)  improve NEA's financial viability through enabling NEA to put in place
rigorous financial planning/control systems, reduce its operating
costs;
(b) strengthen NEA's grid systeir through enhancing its rated capacity,
extending plant life and enhancing its distribution capabilities;
(c) strengthen NEA's ability to operate and maintain its physical plant;
(d) facilitate the drafting of a PC to be signed between HMG/N and NEA to
improve its operations through implementation of a PIP;
(e)  reduce Nepal's fossil fuel imports and environmental degradation
through increasing energy conservation in the industry sector; and
(f) strengthen HMG/N's ability to prolong the useful life of hydroelectric
projects through institutionalizing sustainable development activities
in the Projects' upstream catchments.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations HMG/N agreed:
(a) on the project cofinancing arrangements (para. 3.05);



- 40 -
(b) to establish a project office and appoint a project manager for the
upgrading of the Dumre-Besisahar Road (para. 3.10);
(c) to establish a project office and appoint a project manager for the
Energy Audit Program (para. 3.11);
(d) that starting FY92, its dues to NEA would not exceed three months of
billing (para. 4.14);
(e) to include all future projects in Nepal's power subsector in NEA's
Investment Program (paras. 4.16, 4.30);
(f) to provide NEA with any required additional working capital through
equity contributions (para. 4.27);
(g) to reimburse NEA for the annual losses incurred in its rural
electrification operation (para. 4.29); and
(h) not to convene evaluation committees in future to evaluate projects to
be transferred to NEA (para. 4.30).
6.02      During negotiations HMG/N and NEA agreed to:
(a) forward NEA's annual audited financial statements as certified by the
auditor general within twelve months of year end (para. 2.13);
(b)  revalue NEA fixed assets annually in accord with a method acceptable
to IDA (para. 4.04);
(c) satisfactorily execute a SLA prior to any future credit to NEA being
declared effective (para. 4.06);
(d) financial performance covenants for NEA (para. 4.23);
(e)  that NEA incorporate automatic fuel adjustment clauses in its future
tariffs (para. 4.25); and
(f)  on a debt service coverage covenant for NEA (para. 4.26);
6.03      During negotiations NEA agreed to:
(a) a timetable for submission of annual unaudited and audited financial
statements (para. 2.13);
(b) submit an insurance proposal to IDA (para. 2.14);
(c) set up a Human Resource Department (para. 2.16);
(d) a project implementation/organization chart (para. 3.08);
(e) ensure that starting FY'13 accounts receivables from parastatals and
other consumers are maintained at three months of annual sales
(para. 4.15);



- 41 -
(f)  submit to IDA by May 31 each year, (i) details of its three following
years' Investment Program with a related financing plan and
(ii) annual forecast financial statements together with the proposed
measures to comply with the revenue covenants. NEA also agreed not to
undertake any new investment (in excess of US$5.0 million) outside the
purview of the said program without IDA's prior approval (para. 4.16);
and
(g) set up a Rural Electrification Directorate (para. 4.29).
6.04        The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) conclusion of a legal agreement on the PC between HMG/N and NEA whose
conditions would be satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.06); and
(b) effectiveness of the cofinancing arrangement with NDF (para. 3.05);
(c) NEA to appoint project supervisory consultants (para. 3.08);
(d) NEA to invite bids for key project components (para. 3.08); and
(e) conclusion of a satisfactory SLA between HMG/N and NEA on the proposed
project (para. 4.06).
6.05        With the above agreements reached, the proposed project forms an
appropriate basis for an IDA credit of SDR 48.1 million (US$65 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to the Kingdom of
Nepal.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1.1
N t P  L
N4V  iAlA   1967/48
e000 we
.L  A01   a0140 TOTAL   COAL <--          P C T R 0 L e U N   P RO O U C T  --TTAL  S.ET  TOTAL    TOTAL
VOOD   1iD.      N-COUt          LPO OOIL  JAT KO. DI0IIEL  RB. -N  E  PETRO              Cow.  ONY
iUEL               OIL    a/  PRO        b/
Convergion feator, In *9/%     0.848 0.348 0.240          0.O00 1.090 1.060 1.040 1.040  1.020 0.970 1.020         0.24A7
PRIWRY
Primry prodution       4119.6 95U.6 161.1 8489.5    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  187.0  187.3   8898.6
Imprt.                    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   8.4   2.5  16.5  20.1  5u.9  79.4   7.2   0.0 179.8   15.8 244.4    248.4
Exprt and Snkera          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   -8.9  -0.9           -3.9
From *eteak               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0            0.0
Toal Primary Supply        4119.6 956.8 361.1 S489.8   8.4   2.8  16.8  20.1  u.e  79.4   7.2   0.0 179.8  14.8 881.7   5541.2
i f Total irn.y Supplied    70.805 16.41S 6.52i @8.463  0.91M  0.043 0.2O   O.84  0.925  1.8tit5 0.121 0.0035 8.071  2.53 6.54t   100.0031
TRAIWN ATION
Thermal Piowr aeneration    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  -0.7   0.0   0.0  -0.7    0.6  -0.1 C/   -0.1
energy *etor ue a lo* a   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  -40.4  40.4          _i.4
Total Final supply         4119.6 986.5 051.14 S48.8$   U.4   2.8  16.8  20.1  88.9  76.6   7.2   0.0 178.8  109.0 841.2   8M0.7
*3W6TI
feid.nthil             4010.1 "86.6 831.1 889.9    1.0   1.5   0.0   0.0  46.7   0.0   0.0   C.0  45.2   45.1  94.8    8444.3
InduatrIal               62.2   0.0   0.0  62.2   47.2   1.0   0.0   0.0   4.1  12.9   7.2   0.0  28.2   89.8  111.9    194.1
Comferciul               27.4   0.0   0.0  27.4    8.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   8.1   8.1   0.0   0.0   6.2   16.5  27.7           85.1
Transport                 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    2.1   0.0  16.8  20.1   0.0  46.1   0.0   0.0  82.7    0.8  88.5          68.8
Ariculture                0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  14.1   0.0   0.0  14.1    8.7  17.8           17.6
Others                    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.4   0.0   0.0   2.4    1.4   S.8            8.6
Non  nsergy-Ume           0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0            0.0
Total Conaumption          4119.6 @86.8 8I6.1 8489.8   8.4   2.8  16.8  20.i  5U.9  76.6   7.2   0.0  178.6  109.0 341.2   8600.7
I of Tatal Energy consumd    71.0211i .S811 6.871 94.1211  0.92i 0.041  0.20  0.388 0.9J2 1.361 0.12S 0.001  3.06S  1.861 8.68    100.00
*/ Includes bitumen. jute batching oil and lubricants.
*/ Nydro-0lericityl  de" not Includ,e aptive generation.
Aumud efficiency: 0.88 (we for multifuela. which are the current type of non-hydra under development).
1 kWh a Sfi kcal; I kb    * 10.0C Okcal
*/ Vertical balancing of dota.
Seurce.: WA: ADS'. 7th power Project and Reort on Special Aeeietenc. to Nepal fr oil Isupply *wcurlbty
W106'- Umery lawue and Option* Reort, and MA mission eat_ta.



NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
NEPAL: Fuel Prices 1976-1990
CASOLINE          DIESEL       KEROSENE              COAL            FUELWOOD aJ          ELECTRICIM          NATIONAL URBAN
NRs/1  Index Nrs/          1  I nd eRs75  -d x  NRu/Tonne  Index   NR*/Tonno  Index       irs7kInd x    CONSUMER PRICE INDEX
1976     6.00    100    2.00    100     2.00    100      458.70     100        134      100          0.23    100              100
1960     9.30    155    5.86    283     6.16    258      468.70     100        270      201          0.44    191                -
1981     9.30    166    6.65    283     6.16    268           -       -          -        -          0.62    226              148
1982     9.30    166    5.6U    283     6.16    268           -       -        460      336          0.52    226              163
1983     9.30    166    6.66    283     6.16    268           -       -          -        -          0.66   239               187
1964    10.90    182    7.50    375     6.90    295           -       -          -        -          0.80    348              198
19B6    10.90    182    7.60    375     5.90    295      643.70     138       650       410          0.84    385              206
1986    12.90    182    7.60    375     5.75    288           -       -        560      410          1.16    604              239
1967    12.90    182    7.60    376     6.76    288           -       -        660      410          1.198    04              271                   SS
1988    12.90    182    7.60    875     6.76    288           -       -        760      680          1.29    526              301                   w
1969    19.00    317    9.10    466     6.90    346           -       -        900      672          1.39   604               326
1990    19.00    817    7.60    875     6.00    300           -       -          -        -          1.38   60                  -
19"1    26.00    417   10.00    600     7.S0    376           -       -        960 y    709          2.22    965
a   Sale of tuflwood In the Knthmndu Valley by TCN and its precursor, FCN.
/,Market price is 2,600-3,600 NRn./tonne
Sources:  (a)  Commercial Energy Cost and Pricing Study, Kathmandu, WECS - Report #3/3/011/086/1/2/Seq. 224.  October 1985.
(b)  Nepal:  Issues and Options in the Enerag  Sector, Washington, D.C., UJNDP/World Bank, Report No. 4474, August 1983.
(c) Appraisal of the Seventh Power Projoct in Nepwl. Asian Development Bank, Document t R176-89, Manila, Novoeber 1989.
(d) Information supplied by the Nepal Oil Corporation and the Timber Corporation.



- 44 -
ANNE5X 1. 3
page 1 of 4
N z   
POWER SECTOR Z    4. fIESNCY PROJUC2
PAST AND PRESENT TARIFFS
Effective Effective Effective Effective Effective
MONTHLY TARIFF                           13-Feb-80 14-Apr-83 17-Aug-83 14-Apr-85 17-Sep-85
RESIDENTIAL                     A/motor
Minimum charge:   NRs/m        6.25     12.00      11.00     11.00      11.00
For demand upto:   kWh/m          25        25         25        25         25
From 25 KWh to 75 KWh: NRs/kWh        0.40       0.70      0.66       0.90      1.10
From 75 KWh to 100 KWh:  NRa/kWh       0.40       0.70      0.66       0.90      1.10
From 100 KWh to 200 KWh:  NRa/kWh       0.55       0.80      0.80       0.90      1.10
From 200 KWh to 300 KWh:  NRs/kWh       0.55       0.80      0.80       0.90      1 10
Over 300 KWh:  NRs/kWh       0.70      0.90       0.90      1.10       1.35
Moter rent:   NRs/m                                       2.00       2.00
INDUSTRIAL
Saall:upto 12 kW, LV supptied
maximu power:    kW             12         12        12         12        12
Demand charge:  NRs/kW       12.00     20.00      18.00     20.50      25.00
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh       0.36      0.56       0.56      0.75       0.90 1
Small: above 12 kW, LV supplied
maximun power:    kW           100        50         50        80         80
Demand charge:  NRa/kW       12.00     20.00      18.00     20.50      25.00
11 kV supply    Energy rates:  NRs/kWh       0.36       0.56      0.56       0.75      0.90
muaxfmn power: ksu                       500        50       5000       5000
Demand charge:  NRs/kW       30.00     45.00      45.00     61.25      75.00 1
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh       0.30      0.52       0.52      0.70       0.85
33 kV supply
maxinum power: kV                         500       500    > 5000       5000
Demand charge:  NRs/kU       30.00     50.00      50.00     51.25      62.501
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh       0.30      0.50       0.50          -
NRs/kWh                        0.57~~~~~~~~.7
KWh corresponding to Lf<0.50:  NR/kWh                                        057        0.70
KWh corresp. 0.50 c Lf <O.70:  NRs/kUh                                       0.53       0.65 1
KWh corresponding to Lf0.70:  NRs/kWh                                        0.50       0.60 1
66 kV supply
maxinmu  power:    kW                    500        500    > 5000    > 50001
Demand charge:  NRs/kW       30.00     50.00      50.00     51.25      62.50 1
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh       0.30      0.50       0.50         -          *
KWh corresponding to LfO0.50:  NRs/kWh                                       0.57       0.70
KWh corresp. 0.50 < Lf '0.70:  NRs/kWh                                       0.53       0.65
KWh corresponding to Lf00.70:  NRs/kWh                                       0.50       0.60 1
132 kV supply
maximnum power:    kWI
Demond charge:  NRs/kW
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh
COMMERCIAL
a) Hotel, Supermarket, M-G offices, Banks, etc.; LV supplied
Demand charge:  NRs/kW         -          -         -               -
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh        *         -               -
b) All starred hotels / Hotel, Supermarket, N-G offices, Banks, etc.; kV supplied
Demand charge:  NRs/kW       30.00     50.00      50.00     67.50      82.50 1
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh       0.41      0.70       0.70      0.95       1.25
c) Others / Restaurants, lodges, shops, etc.; up to 25 kWi
Demand charge:  NRs/kW       30.00     40.00      40.00     54.00      66 00
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh       0.41      0.65       0.65      0.90       1:10
UON COMMERCIAL
MInvun charge, upto 50 KWh:    NRs                    41.00     41.00      61.00      75.00
Energy rates, above 50 KWh:  NRs/KWh                  0.85      0.85       1.20       1.50



- 45 -
ANNEX 1.3
page 2 of 4
N  P A L
PMER SECTOR EFFICIENCa PtOJECT
PAST AND PRESENT TARIFFS (Continued)
Effective Effective Effective Effective Effective
MONTHLY TARIFF                          13-Feb-80 14-Apr-83 17-Aug-83 14-Apr-85 17-Sep-85 I
3TREET LIGHTING
a) Notered
b) Urmtered     Energy rates:  NRs/KWh       0.35      0.82      0.82       1.10      1.35
b) Unmetered
Energy rates: NRs/Watt      0.14       0.33      0.33      0.45       0.55
DRINKING WATER
LV suppty
Demand charge:  NRs/kW      25.00      40.00     40.00     46.50      57.00
Energy rates:  NRe/kWh      0.25       0.45      0.45      0.60       0.75
11 kV supply 
Demand charge:  NRs/kW       25.00     40.00     40.00     46.50      57.00
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh      0.25       0.45      0.45      0.60       0.75
IRRIGATION
LV supply
maximum power:    kU                                          20         20
Demand charge:  NRs/kU      25.00      35.00     35.00     20.00      25.00
Erwrgy rates:  NRs/kWh      0.25       0.42      0.42      0.60       0.70
LV suppty
maximun power:    kW                                          20         20
Demand charge:  NRs/kW      25.00      35.00     35.00     20.00      25.00
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh     0.25       0.42      0.42      0.60       0.70
11 kV supply
minfmum power:    kW                                          20         20
Duuand charge: NRs/kW       25.00      35.00     35.00     46.50      57.00 I
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh      0.25       0.35      0.35      0.50       0.60
33 kV supply 
minimum power:    kW|
Demand charge: NRs/kU
Eneroy rates:  NRs/kWh
TRANSPORTATION
Demand charge:  NRsakU     25.00      40.00     40.00     54.00      66.00
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh     0.30       0.40      0.40      0.55       0.65
TEMPLE CHARGE 
Fixed charge:  NRs/m         -          -         -         -          -
Energy rates:  NRs/kWh                  -         -         -          -
IaLrge: NEA forecst study (1986-87).



- 46 -
ANNEX 1.3
page 3 of 4
N E P A L
POIER SECTOR EFFICIENY PROJECT
PAST AND PRgESNT TARIFFS (ContIrned)
EffectIve                                       lEffective
NONTHLY TARIFF              14-May-89 ----------------------------------17-Nov-91 ---------.---------.
RESIDENTIAL          Awp/meter  -c2.5  "15   -.30    o60   (.100   :100 1    C-5    (30    -60 3Phases
Nin/i   charge: NRs/m    9.00  30.00  60.00  90.00 122.50 412.50           11.00  60.00 145.75 502.75
For dmnd upto:  kWhm          25      25     50     75    100    3001          20     40      75    215
From free  to 75 K(h: NRs/kWh   1.20   1.20   1.20        NA     NA      NA 1     2.45   2.45      NA      NA
From  75  to 200 KWh: NRs/kWh   1.30   1.30   1.30   1.30   1.30         NA       2.55   2.55   2.55       NA
From 200  to 250 KWh: NRs/kWh   1.60   1.60   1.60   1.60   1.60         NA       2.55   2.55   2.55   2.55
From 250  to 300 KWh: NRs/kWh   1.60   1.60   1.60   1.60   1.60         NA       3.40   3.40   3.40   3.40
Over 300 KWh: NRs/kWh   1.60   1.60   1.60   1.60   1.60   1.60           3.40   3.40   3.40   3.40
Meter rent:  NRs/m    2.00   5.00   5.00  10.00  10.00  10.00 I
INDUSTRIAL                                                                  t
Smatt:upto 12 kW, LV supplied                                               I
maximum power:    kW        12   kW                                          12   kW
Demand charge:  NRs/kW  20.00  NRs/m                                 T    10.00  NRs/m
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   1.20  NRs/kWh                               '     1.80 NRs/kWh
Smatl: above 12 kW, LV supplied                                             I
maximun power:    kW        50   kW                                          50   kW
Demand charge:  NRs/kW  75.00 NRs/kW                                      40.00 NRs/kW
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   1.25  NRs/kWh                               I     2.35 NRs/kWh
11 kV supply
maximua power:    kW              kW                                 I            kW
Demand charge:  NRs/ki  70.00 NRs/kW                                 |   90.00 NRs/kW
Energy rates: HRs/kWh   1.20  NRs/kWh                                     1.85 NRs/kWh
33 kV supply
maximun power:    kU              kW                                              kW
Demand charge:  NRs/kW  65.00 NRs/kW                                 1   90.00  NRs/m
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   1.10  NRs/kWh                                     1.85 NRs/kWh
66 kV supply
maxfmum power:    kW              kW                                              kW
Demand charge:  NAs/kW  60.00 NRs/kW                                 T   80.00 NRs/kW
Energy rates: HRs/kWh   0.95  NRs/kWh                               I     1.55 NRs/kWh
132 kV supply
maximua power:    kW              kW                                              kW
Demand charge:  NRs/kW  50.00 NRs/kW                                      80.00 NRs/kW
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   0.85  MRs/kWh                                     1.55 NRs/kWh
CO9UERCIAL
a) Hotel, Supermarket, N-0 offices, Banks, etc.; LV supplied                       LV
Demand charge:  NRs/kW 108.00                                            110.00
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   1.60                                              3.15
b) Starred hotels / Hotel, Supermarket, M-G off., Banks, etc.; NV sup.             mV
Demand charge:  NRs/kW 100.00                                            100.00
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   1.50                                              2.95
c) Others / Restaurants, lodges, shops, etc.; up to 25 ki                   i
Demand charge:  NRa/kW  80.00
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   1.65
NON COIUERCIAL                  LV/MV                                       I      LV      MV
upto 50 KWh/m:  NRs/ki  100.00                                            55.00  50.00 NRs/kW
Rate, above 50 KWh/m: HRs/KWh   1.80                                        |     3.10   2.95



- 47 -
ANNEX 1 3
page 4 of 4
N E PA L
POER SECTO IFFICIET PlOJECT
PAST AND PRESENT TARIFFS (Continued)
Effective                                      Effective
MONTHLY TARIFF              14-May-89 -------------                      > 17-Nov-91 ------------------->
STREET LIGHTING
a) Metered             NRsIkW 500.00
Energy rates: NR9IKWh   1.25                                            1.90
b) Uetered
Energy rates: NRs/att
DRINKINIIA WTER
LV suplypt
Demnd charge: NRs/kU  57.00                                        a   66.00
Energy rates: NRs/kIh   0.70                                     1a05
11 kV supply
Demand charge: NRs/kW  50.00                                            60.00
Energy rates: NRsIkWh   0.65                                            0.95
IRRIGATION
LV suppLy
maxim. power:   kW          8                                               8
Demand chsrgo: NRs/kW  20.00                                            66.00
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   0.80                                            1.00
LV suply                                                                  a
maximLn power:   kW        20                                              20
Demand charge: #4Rsa/k   45.00                                     '   66.00
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   0.80                                      I     1.00
11 kV supply
minim. power:   kWd
Demnd charge:  NRs/kU  40.00                                            60.00
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   0.70                                            0.95
33 kV supply
minnma  power:   kWd
Demand charge: NRs/kW  35.00                                            60.00
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   0.65                                            0.95
TRAISPORTATION                   IV                                       |M      V
Deo nd charge: NRa/kW  66.00                                            60.00
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   0.70                                            110
TEMPLE CHARGE
Fixed charge: NRst/  10.00
Energy rates: NRs/kWh   1.10                                      |     1.60
TEMPORARY
Fixed charge: NRc/i 1750.00                                       a
Energy rates: NRa/kWh   3.70                                            5.00
Source: Edf load forecast study (1989-90).                                  Source: NEA.



NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENC' PROJECT
NEA ORGANIZATION CHART
DDRET  ER           E                           I
|HUAM  RESWRCESL.ITRNLAUr_
DIRECTOR            I           INDIRECTOR             DIRECTORI       I                  DIRECTOR IHDIRECTORIE
IFINANCE AA     I           ICOPOAT PLANNIN                   OhmENGRTO                     RNEECPREP    |             CONSTRUCTION    DJC I                  *ET        I
I   DIRECTQR  I  X DIRECTOR  I  4   DRCTOR  I        --47--DIRECTOR        I         4 DIRECTOR          I                              0IECO 
ADM INISTRATION|           SYSTEMS PL      IIRN/RDSN|I                                     DSG                          KL   YR                     CNRLESEN
DrRECTETOR                                         IRCO          I4 DRETR                        I              IECO                         DIECO          I
FINAINCENIOIC                                  SSOPRCNT                        IVSICTO  L                    KULEKHANI0 II    I               ESAGR         I
OIRECTOR  IRECTO             DIRECTOR DIECI
E L/TORINGSYS   ER/CONT.                         INVESTIGATION                I T ANI II STN1                       S I        I
-- DIRECTORI
EV:J::~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CONERNIL 
-E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* EdF Twinning Advisor Associated with this Postion



- 49 -
Annex 2.2
Page 1 of 5
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Action Plan for UPDradin- NEA's Operational Efficiency
i T;METABLE I RESPONSIBLE
A. CORPORATE WIDE
1. Agree and sign a contract plan (CP) with  June 1992   HMG/NEA
HMG/N                                                  Board
- the CP would define clear cut duties and
obligations between HMG/N and NEA
- The CP will set performance improvement
targets for NEA over a 4-year rolling period;
revised each year
2. Resolve urgent pending issues                       HMG/NEA
Board
- Increase Tariff by at least 42%      July 16,
1992
- Develop export to India and remove
technical bottlenecks in existing India-Nepal      MD/ Corporate
interconnections                                   Planning
________________________________________ June 1992
3. Introduce a Corporate Planning process within  June 1992   MD/ Corporate
NEA                                                    Planning
- Clarity and discuss NEA performance
Improvement objectives according to sector
- Design a measurement system for
performance Improvement
- Issue corporate plan/link with HMG/, NEA
budgetary cycle



- 50 -
Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 5
TIMETABLE RESPONSIBLE
4. Improve Management Procedures           September  MD/NEA Board
1992
- increase delegation of responsibility to
managers
- Review existing staff management     June 1992   M/D Human
procedures and propose improvement to              Resources
HMG/N                                              Department/
Consultant
- Streamline current procurement and store   September  MD/NEA Board/
control procedures                     1992        Consultant
5. Management Information system           June 1992   MD/ Consultant
- Review current data collection and
reporting system; complete data base;
design and implement a reporting system for
selected key indicators
6. System planning/financial planning      July 1992    MD/Corporate
Planning/All
- Issue a monthly progress report for each         Directorates
Directorate
- Issue and update load forecast; update  By end of   System
LCGEP and transmission planning; use as an  each   Planning
Input to corporate planning            calender.    Department
- Define guidelines for distribution planning   July 1992    System
to be used consistently at the decentralized       Planning/DCS
level in the regions
June 1992
- Integrate financial aspects In long term         System
planning                                           Planning/
Finance
__________ Departments



- 51 -
Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 5
_ TIMETABLE  RESPONSIBLE
7. Manpower planning                       May 1992    MD/ Consultant
- Check and complete staff data bank and
Issue a rough target structured based on key
ratios
- Refine target structure at a decentralized    June 1992   MD/All
level, develop job descriptions and                Dlrectorates/
organization charts                                Consultant
8. Budgeting cycle process                  February    MD/Finance
1993        Department
- Review, update budget procedures; Issue
necessary guidelines and manual of
procedures
- Carry out short seminars for all managers   October  MD/Finance
and train four to five accountants to be In    1992  Department
charge of the budget
9. Structure optimization                   October     MD/NEA Board
1992        Consultant
- Review the organization of the Planning
Directorate, the Finance Department and
Administration Directorate
- Increase the delegation of power within the  October  MD/NEA Board
DCS towards a greater decentralization and   1992
operational efficiency
- Set up a core of advisors to assist the  October  MD/NEA Board
Managing Director                      1992
- Set up a separate structure to manage rural January  MD/NEA Board
electrification schemes                1993
10. Improvement of the conditions of service  October  MD/Consultant
1992
- Introduce Incentives through renumeration
tied to performance



- 52 -
Annex 2.2
Page 4 of 5
TIMETABLE  RESPONSIBLE
B. FINANCE DEPARTMENT
1. Staff appointments
- Senior Accounting Staff              July 1992    MD/Finance
Department
2. Clear and Investigate differences In FY89  June 1992   MD/Finance
audited accounts and adjust the accounts               Department
3. Clarify the current debt situation on SLA's and  June 1992   MD/Finance
enter the figures In the books for FY90 accounts       Department
4. Complete the audit of financial accounts for    June 1992   MD/Finance
FY90 and FY91                                          Department
5. Improve procedures
- Cash collection                      June 1992   MD/Finance/
DCS
- Cash management                      January     Finance/
1993       Consultant
- Set up an efficient budgetary and control   January  Finance/
system                                 1993        Consultant
- Improve accounting procedures both In the  January  Finance/DCS
region and at HO and Improve coordination   1993
between the regions and HQ
C. DISTRIBUTION AND CONSUMER SERVICES DIRECTORATE
1. Issue uniform distribution standards to be  January  DCS
adopted within DCS and upgrade DCS working  1993
practices



- 53 -
Annex 2.2
Page 5 of 5
TIMETABLE RESPONSIBLE
2. Improve distribution network performance  September  DCS
1992 to
- Expedite procurement of equipment and  1994
materials for LRP, continue and expand
phase balancing and extend the LRP
program outside the Kathmandu valley
- Release overloaded transformers and
networks
3. Introduce computerized billing          October      DCS
1992
4. Improve DCS network planning and data base   October  DCS/
1992        Consultant
5. Introduce load management measures      June 1992   DCS/Ministry of
onwards    Industry
6. Improve stores management and stock control  June 1992   DCS
and minimize equipment storage
D. OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE DIRECTORATE
1. Introduce a multi-year planning process within  October  O&M/
the O&M units; develop a maintenance policy and  1992   Consultant
Introduce O&M standards
2. Provide in field maintenance expertise and set-  December   O&M/
up central electrical and mechanical workshop  1992    Consultant
with associated specialized maintenance teams
3. Upgrade the operation of the Load Dispatch  September  O&M/
Center, through Improved telecommunications and 1992   Consultant
software
4. Set up a specialized unit to monitor major civil  September  O&M/
structures                                 1992         Consultant
,=-                    =77 within  !:1            T-T  961.'4!i:' ,'
Directorate to support the operational units  1992     Consultant



- 54 -                         ANNEX 2.3
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
EXISTING GENERATING PLANTS ON THE INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM (FEBRUARY 1992)
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------_
Number of Units  Installed   Rated       Actual
Name        Date In         and size      Capacity   Capacity    Energy
Service            MW             MW       MW         Gwh/yr
Hydro Electric:
Panauti                 -          3 x  0.8          2.4       2.4 1/          0
Trisuli             1962           7 x  3.0         21.0      18.0 2/      114.6
Sunkosi             1973           3 x  3.5         10.5       8.6          56.7
Gandak              1979           3 x  5.0         15.0       9.4 3/       43.8
Kulekhani I          1982          2 x 30.0         60.0      60.0 2/      154.7
Devighat             1983          2 x  4.7         14.1      14.1 2/       89.7
Kulekhani II         1986          2 x 16.0         32.0      32.0 2/       95.0
Marsyangdi           1989          3 x 23.0         69.0      69.0         462.0
Andi Khola 4/        1991          3 x  1.7          5.1       5.0          44.4
Subtotal - Hydro                                   229.1     218.5        1060.9
Misc. Small Hydro                                    7.0        7.0         23.2
Total Hydro - Interconnected System                236.1     225.5        1084.1
Diesel 5/
Hetauda              1983      4 x 2.5 + 4.4        14.4       7.0
Misc. Diesel                                        14.2        3.0
Multifuel Diesel    1991       4 x 6.5              26.0      26.0
Subtotal - Diesel                                   54.6      36.0
TOTAL PLANT INSTALLED                              290.7     261.5
1/   Plant inoperative because water is diverted for irrigation purposes.
2/   Kulekhani I and II share a common hydraulic system and can only be
operated in "tandem" as (50 + 32) = 92 MW units. Similarly, unit
outages at Trisuli require reductions at Devighat. The flow limitation
at Trisuli applies during all months of the year, because it is designed
to have only six units operating at any one time, resulting in some
spillage of water.
3/   Gandak system has no spillway resulting in that only a maximum of 2
units may be operated safely to avoid danger of flooding the powerhouse.
4/ Andi Khola is owned and operated by the Butwal Power Company.
5/   Diesel firm capacity reflects the operating state of 32 existing plants
in various locations throughout Nepal (Annex 2.16).
Source: NEA



NEPAIL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJE,T
NEA TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
NEPAL ELECTRICITY AUTIhORITY
SYSTEM PLANNING DEPARTMENT
I ntl                          .. .. . .......                                                                                  nZ^;
1s88  .....                           HT._           1  a                                                                             tntl@i""
""Na~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ouuom"                                                AOA
-"L'-''" ''G'  S   S   111X  il  ."u.r.C 11
.            iUV      - _   1   11I  E 2G WV
* t d; E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--A"..                           _- UITV                     NAT ;kl I             14L
: 1a^a*" _ W Ut tV  t     U ^ttes Olvi _v                      _*tttCOAtt  AAtrt .w;
o.w^. @5^tt tt 9 _ 1 ! - | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIA                             TANG             E             tnlK   egDAUAL       V
1.051sw                                                                                                SA04ALAD5 LA
..4111 Kw                                                                                     clv P "OIwn L
' <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA                                                 clE 2;'._ AV   . <0
~~~~~~~~~~~to NVt^ lt{s a ett trttw ' |
&WOAK  AA$I 13 KV  ILAMOAC&R              JA~            ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1



- 56 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 1 of 6
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Nepal Electricity Authority
Action Program to Reduce System Losses
INTRODUCTION
1.          Under the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Project (Cr. 1478-NEP), IDA
provided financing for Phase I of NEA's Loss Reduction Program, the System
Loss Study carried out by British Electricity International (BEI) (UK) and
completed in July 1986. The system loss study identified a phased approach to
loss reduction, including plant rehabilitation, system reinforcement and
system improvement measures over a 5 year period. Under the same financing,
NEA employed BEI in 1988, as a consultant, to assist in implementing the first
stage of a five-year program aimed at achieving a reduction in losses in the
Kathmandu valley of about 6% over the two year period. Although Phase II of
the project has been operational for more than two years, little field work
has actually been achieved to date mainly because of protracted delays in the
procurement of materials to be used in the project. This delay in the
progress of Phase II, and a wide range of initiatives now being implemented in
the power sector, provide an opportunity to reform the project in Phase III,
being financed under Credit 1478-NEP. At the same time, and under ADB
assistance, BEI is providing assistance in the areas of distribution planning
and customer management. The following action program details specific
measures NEA will be taking with IDA's long-term target of reducing Nepal's
power system losses to about 15Z-18Z by the year 2000.
The Project Team - Project Steering Committee
2.          NEA has instituted a Project team under Mr. D. Basnet as project
manager to monitor and implement the specific loss reduction programs to be
carried out. Mr. Basnet was also given the responsibility to manage the NE.A's
Loss Division and originally reported to the Director of the Bagmati
Department of the Distribution Consumer Services (DCS) Directorate. Following
the creation in 1989 of a Commercial Department, within the DCS Directorate
all NEA's loss reduction activities were transferred to this department and
the project manager reports now to the Commercial Director.
3.          The project team includes the project manager, a deputy project
manager, four engineers, administrative staff and some 100 supervisors and
field staff. Assistance to the project is provided by four BEI long-term
consultants; a Team Leader/System Information Engineer, a Meter Engineer, a
Distribution Construction Engineer and a Distribution Planning Engineer.
4.          In order to ensure that NEA management are committed to the loss
reduction program, NEA has agreed to set up, within NEA, a Project Steering
Committee, to direct and monitor the overall progress of the loss reduction



- 57 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 2 of 6
measures within all divisions of NEA. This Steering Committee would be made
up of senior managers from NEA departments directly involved in loss reduction
and chaired by the Director, Commercial Department.
5.          Constraints to the Implementation of Loss Reduction Measures.
(a)   NEA's capacity to implement a Loss Reduction Program to reduce
system losses is limited by the amount of resources, both
financial and physical, available. In particular, the lack of
adequately trained field staff is a major constraint, though it is
to be hoped that this situation will improve as the implementation
of NEA's training project with the assistance of EdF begins to
make an impact.
(b)   To reduce technical losses by more than a few percent requires
extensive investment in power equipment; transformers and lines,
etc. In Phase II of the loss reduction program, insufficient
funds were available to deal with technical losses other than to a
limited degree. It is intended however, that greater effort will
be made in this area in the proposed Phase III of the loss
reduction program.
(c)   Solutions to the non-technical losses although requiring some
finance and materials, require more commitment from all sections
of the organization to identify sources of non-technical losses
and take action to eliminate them. It is the lack of this
commitment which constrains NEA's ability to reduce non-technical
losses.
(d)   Legal procedures have hampered the prosecution of cases involving
theft of energy. Moreover, there are inherent weaknesses in the
existing laws covering energy pilferage, for example NEA cannot
take action against anyone who is not their registered customerl
Like other classes of theft, pilferage of energy is considered
only as a misdemeanor; as such, the corresponding penalty is
relatively light and does not serve as a deterrent. Also, courts
tend to be lenient with defendants, a reflection of the culture
which views the consumers as the "underdog" in contrast to NEA's
semi-government image. The inability of NEA in prosecuting
successfully cases of energy pilferage has probably acted to
encourage pilferage.
(e)   Theft involving NEA employees is difficult to detect without
proper independent checks; the opportunity for meter readers to
falsify meter readings for a small consideration is well known.
The fact that NEA staff can "earn" more than their salary by
aiding and abetting pilferage with very little chance of being
caught serves to encourage this type of activity.
6.          Analysis of Losses in the Kathmandu Valley.  The System Loss Study
completed by BEI in 1986 estimated the overall losses in the Kathmandu Valley



- 58 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 3 of 6
to be 36Z of the total generated energy coming into the Valley. At that time
it was further estimated that these losses broke down into four main
components; technical (122), pilferage (12Z), meter reading (10X) and other
(22).
7.          Under Phase II of the Loss Reduction Program BEI have tested all
of the present metering recording energy coming into the Valley at 66kV and
above and out into the llkV distribution system. Based on actual meter
readings corrected for meter errors, the overall loss in the Kathmandu Valley
is running at 30.5Z. The losses in the 66kV system and 66/llkV transformers
in the Valley are 1.3Z whilst t.xe losses in the llkV system down to the
consumer's meter is 29.6%.
8.          No study has been made of the breakdown of the losses into
technical and non-technical since 1986, but there is little evidence to
suggest that it has changed signi.icantly over the intervening period.
9.          Factors Contributing to Losses.  The main cau.-. of technical
losses are:
(a)   poor siting of transformers
(b)   overloaded/critically loaded transformers
(c)   overextended distribution lines
(d)   underrated distribution lines
(e)   poor service connections
(f)   high phase loading imbalance
(g)   poor power factor
(h)   long service line lengths
10.         The main factors contributing to non-technical losses are:
(a)   direct connection to distribution lines
(b)   use of a jumper to bypass the meter
(c)   poor quality meters and inadequately tested meters
(d)   destruction of meters
(e)   removing non-tampering devices
(f)   unmeasured/unestimated energy, e.g. strett lights, temples, the
Palace and NEA self consumption
(g)   fraud by NEA staff
(h)   no allowance for "locked-door" consumption
(i)   inadequate statistical metering at power houses and substations
11.         Actions to be Carried Out by NEA.
(a)   The following actions will be carried out by NEA; the figures in
brackets after each item refer to the above areas of loss
contribution that the action is intended to deal with.
(b)   Reseal 100,000 customer installations in the Kathmandu Valley with
new bowden seals and wire.
10(b), 10(e), 10(g) identify 10(c)



- 59 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 4 of 6
(c)   Rehabilitate 40,000 customer installations in the Kathmandu Valley
using new service enclosure and MCB
9(h), 10(b), 10(c), 10(e), 10(g)
(di   Phase balance and reconnected 100,000 customer services in the
Kathmandu Valley using mechanical connectors.
9(e), 9(f)
(e)   install 55km of ABC cable in the Kathmandu Valley an a trial basis
9(c), 9(d), 10(a)
(f)   install high voltage power capacitors in areas of low power factor
in the Kathmandu Valley.
10(g)
(g)   Complete the survey of all distribution transformers in the
Kathmandu Valley and make minor alterations as appropriate to the
electrical locations of transformers.
9(a), 9(b), 9(c), 9(d), 10(a)
(h)   Adopt improved meter testing procedures as recommended by the BEI
consultants.
10(c)
(i)   Establish a new fully equipped meter test station in the Kathmandu
Valley
10(c)
(J)   Review NEA's meter spares purchasing policy with a view to
ensuring that appropriate spare parts are purchased to enable
meters to be repaired and refurbished in the new meter test
station.
10(c)
(k)   Adopt an improved meter specification to ensure that in future
only meters with a long guaranteed service life are purchased.
10(c)
(1)   Institute a program of checking the metering of all large
customers every 1-5 years depending on the quality of the metering
installed.
10(c)
(m)   Install new statistical metering in all power houses and
substations in Nepal.
10(i)
(n)   Install metering at all powerhouses, substations, NEA offices and
depots to adequately record NEA's own consumption.
10(f)



- 60 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 5 of 6
(o)   Institute annual or semi-annual surveys of street lights and
temples to ensure the energy consumed is properly estimated or
measured.
10(f)
(p)   Instruct all Divisions of NEA to return the required meter
readings and consumption data to the Loss Reduction project in a
timely manner, paying due care and attention to accuracy, so that
losses can be evaluated promptly at the end of each month.
9(c), 10(h)
(q)   Reduce the contribution to losses caused by lapses in the
administrative function such as errors in data recording and
omission of allowances for "locked-door" consumption.
9(c), 10(h)
(r)   Evaluate and monitor losses by Division and set targets for each
Divisional Manager to encourage loss reduction activities.
9(c)
(s)   Evaluate and consider possible "reward" or "bonus" schemes for
staff who find evidence of pilferage and fraud leading to
successful action by NEA.
9(c), 9(d), 10(g)
(t)   Lobby the Government to review existing statutes relating to
electricity pilferage and press for appropriate amendments.
9(d)
(u)   Conduct regular advertising campaigns to warn the public of the
dangers of interfering with their electricity supply and of the
consequences of being involved in pilferage or fraud.
9(d)
(v)   Remind all staff that involvement in electricity pilferage or
fraud is a serious offence which will jeopardize their continued
employment by NEA.
9(c), 10(g)
(w)   Float the tenders for the proposed Phase III of the Loss Reduction
Program during the spring of 1992 and complete assessment and
evaluation of the bids so that contracts for materials can be
signed around June 1992.



- 61 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 6 of 6
12.         Annual Target for System Losses  Based on the action plan intended
to reduce system losses over the next two years, the following are the
estimate of the losses in percent annually:
Overall Loss In             1989/90       1990/91       1991/92       1992/93
Kathmandu Valley              30.5          28.5         26.0           24.0
Nepal                         27.0          25.5         24.5           23.5
Washington, D.C.
February 18, 1992



LOAD CURVE (Peak for the Year)
NEPAL SYSTEM PEAK (02.01.1992)
220-
210-
200                                                           A
190 -
180 -
170-
160 
90 14
130 
120 
110 
100 
90
0  1 2 3  4 5 6          7  8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 1   & 17 18  8.39 20 21 22 23 24
TIME (Hours)



- 63 -                   ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 4
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Project Equipment Details
A.    POWER PLANT REHABILITATION
Name of Plant          Rationale                   Scope of Work
1.   Trisuli (21MW)/       Restore existing plants    Upgrade the Trisuli
Devighat (14 MW)      to original capacity to    headworks and
provide lowest cost of      conveyance system
(Trisuli Layout       increased generation        between the intake and
Attachment 1)        capacity.                    the balancing reservoir
to accommodate an
increase of discharge
from 31.15 to 45.66
m3/s.
Retrofit seven new
runners, wicket gates,
governors and
electronic controls.
Rewind the stators,
replace excitors,
cases, breaker
protection and control.
B.    URGENT 132166KV REINFORCEMENT MEASURES
Bl    ' 'STATIONS
132/66 KV Substations                              SCOPE OF WORK IN PSEP
Capacity After Project                            Trafo   H.V.CBs  MV CBs
Max Demand FY89 (MVA)                             66/llkV 137kV      HKV
Max Demand FY95 (MVA)         Rationale            MVA       No      No.
1.    New Teku (GIS)        Provides additional          2x18       5        8
66/11 kV 36 MVA       point of supply to city
FY 89   0 MVA       area to relieve loading
FY 95  33 MVA       on 11 kV feeders and on
adjacent substations.



- 64 -                   ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 4
Substation                   Rationale              MVA        No     No.
2.    Lainchour S/S          Upgrade capacity of          2x18       -
66/11lkV  36 MVA      existing trafo bays by
FY 89  19 MVA       replacing 10 MVA units
FY 95  25 MVA       for 18 MVA units.
3.    New Baneswar S/S       Upgrade capacity to          lx18        1        1
6e/l1 kV 36 MVA       meet projected load
FY 89  17 MVA       increases.
FY 95 26 MVA
4.    New Bhaktapur          Install new substation       2xlO        5        8
66/11 kV 36 MVA       to relieve overloading
FY 89   0           with facilities for
FY 90  12 MVA       future interconnection
of 22OkV/132kV and 66kV
networks.
5.    Balu u/Siuchatar       Switchgear to                  -         4
132kV/ S/S            interconnect two 132kV
Interconnector        systems to improve
stability and decrease
reserve requirements.
6.    Duhabi                 Install an extra 132 kV                  1
bay to upgrade the
interconnection link
with India.
B2    Transmission Lines
1.    Baluju/Siuchatar       Interconnect 132kV           4            1
132kV T/L Circuit    systems to improve
overall stability and
decrease reserve
requirements.
2.    Siuchatar/Patan        Reduce overloading on        4            1
66kV Second           existing line by
Circuit               installing second
circuit on existing
66kV towers.
3.    Siuchatar/Teku         To supply new Teku S/S       3            1
66kV Circuit          in city area.
4.    Bhaktapur/New          To provide backstopping    15             1
Chabel 66kV           facilities for both            -           1
(132 KV rated)        substations with
capacity for uprating
to 132kV in future.



- 65 -                  ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 4
Transmission Lines                                    Km        ccts
5.    Duhabi-Kataiya        To upgrade the               15           1
132kV Line            interconnection link
with India; of the 35
kms of line between
Duhabi and the Indian
border, 26 kms consist
of stringing a second
line on an existing
132 kV line and 9 kms
consist of erection of
a single 132 kV line.
B3    Operational Spares
1.    Bagmati               66kV and llkV                NEA provided a list of
Transmission          switchgear relays and        equipment and spares
Section               protection equipment.       during appraisal.
Spares for Siuchatar,
New Chabel, Patan,
Bhaktapur, Thimi, Taku,
Palace.
2.   Western (Butwal)       Switchgear, relay and        NEA provided a lists of
Transmission          protection equipment to    equipment and spares
Section               improve overall             during appraisal.
operations and reduce
frequency of blackouts.
3.    Eastern               Transformers,                NEA provided a list of
Transmission          switchgear isolators        equipment during
Section               and spares to improve       appraisal.
overall plant
availability.
4.    Protection            The reinforcement            To be defined during
Systems Telecom       induce major                the detailed
modification of the         engineering phase.
protection, control and
telecommunications
system.



- 66 -                   ANNEX 3.1
Page 4 of 4
C.    NEA's Infrastructure Facilities
1.    HO Building           IDA to provide               List of furniture and
Blocks                equipment and                equipment agreed during
- Buildings           facilities for               appraisal.
- Furnishing          furnishing new complex
- Office              to provide NEA staff
Equipment           the necessary
equipment/environment
to work more
effectively.
2.    Mechanical            To provide NEA with          List of tools and
Workshop              adequate maintenance         equipment discussed
- Buildings           and repair facilities        during appraisal to be
- Tools and           for hydro and diesel         finalized in the course
Equipment          generating plants            of the detailed
- Vehicles            support.                     engineering phase.
3.    Electrical            To provide repair of         List of tools and
Workshops             rewinding and testing        equipment discussed
- Buildings           facilities for               during appraisal to be
- Equipment           generation,                  finalized in the course
- Service             transmission and             of the detailed
Vehicles            distribution equipment.    engineering phase.
4.    Training              To establish an NEA          List of pedagogical
Facilities            training school using        equipment agreed with
- Land                existing facilities at       NEA.
- Buildings &         the Marsyangdi site.
Furnishing
- Pedagogical
Equipment



- 67 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX 3.1
Attachmnext 1
F..,I.  ,.j}.
_   I



- 68 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 1 of 11
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
MARSYANGDI CATCHMENT MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT (MCMPP) COMPONENT
I Project Background
1.01        The World Bank and the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Development Board
(MHDB) commissioned a catchment management plan for the watershed of the
Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Project.1  This plan has been updated and refined
to address a number of issues, including watershed management experience from
other areas in Nepal, local natural resource management traditions and the
socio-economic dynamics of the region. In particular, the plan incorporates
experience gained under the GTZ-financed Dhading District Development Project.
The project will address the problem of erosion in the catchnent which leads
to increase sedimentation at the Marsyangdi hydropower station intake. The
catchment management plan will be cofinanced by GTZ, the Nordic Development
Fund (NDF) and IDA and implemented under the IDA Power Sector Efficiency
Project as a pilot project.
1.02        There are a number of misconceptions regarding the causes of soil
erosion that can lead to misdirected efforts in soil conservation programs.
Cutting of trees, shrubs and grass in itself does not greatly accelerate soil
erosion. In fact, trees can increase erosion under their crowns, a result of
drip concentration. Grasses and stable litter have a much more positive
effect on soil surface protection. Proper management and protection of
forested sites shows much more beneficial results than planting of the type
frequently carried out by forest departments.
1.03        Soil erosion is seriously effecting the productive capacity of the
hill farmer. Well managed cultivated land may produce less than 5 tons of
sediment per hectare while poorly managed land may produce more than 50 tons
per hectare. Although farmers are generally uninterested in soil conservation
as an end in itself, they are interested in improved productivity and incomes.
Where it is demonstrated that reduced erosion leads to higher farm incomes the
farmers will take part in soil conservation activities. The project will
adopt the approach of working with farmers to improve land management and
reduce erosion through sustainable productivity increases. It is only by
addressing the land degradation process at farm level, rather than land
degradation per se that erosion can be reduced. HMG does not have the
resources to oversee reclamation of all of its degraded land, but through
working with user groups it can certainly influence the farmers in the land
management decisions. This will be the basic strategy of the project proposed
here.
1/ National Engineering Services of Pakistan (NESPAK) and Lahmeyer
International. Marsyangdi Watershed Management Project: Catchment
Management Plan. Lahore, November 1988



- 69 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 2 of 11
1.04        Soil fertility depletion is the major constraint to increasing
agricultural production in many of the farming systems of the hills of Nepal.
Declining fertility of cultivated lands causes farmers to manage these lands
in a less intensive manner and eventually to abandon them when returns drop to
a very low level. While these infertile marginal lands are being used in an
extensive, low management system, soil erosion is at its greatest and land
degradation the most apparent. Marginal grazing lands which are generally
adjacent to marginal cultivated lands also experience severe erosion caused by
trampled soil and damaged vegetation which lead to diversion and concentration
of run-off. Production of grasses, fodder and firewood on such degraded lands
is much below the land's potential because of the virtual lack of management.
Any strategy to address fertility management on marginal rainfed lands and
intensive management of communal lands will result in less surface erosion
and, to some degree, a reduction of sedimentation.
1.05        The project will be a pilot project that attempts'to incorporate
land management practices that improve and lead to a consequent greater
sustainable productivity, whether derived from successful innovations in other
on-going projects or from local practices that could be encouraged. Its
strategy will be to develop approaches for improved land management in the
village with the villagers.
1.06        The philosophy of the project will be people-centric, out of which
some conservation-centric activities will take place. The objective will, at
a minimum, attempt to maintain or stabilize human-induced sedimentation at
current rates, i.e., to prevent an increase over current rates of
sedimentation. In this the project implementors will keep their aspirations
low, seeking limited but achievable results, rather than unrealistically high
targets. Similarly, overall goals will be kept well within the bounds of the
capabilities and expectations of local people, and locals will be engaged
early on in the planning and implementation of the project. The key elements
will be: (a) studying local people's existing innovations, expectations and
needs; (b) studying (listening and learning) local people's traditional means
of resource control and management and utilization; and (c) inviting local
"experts" to advisory committees, to seek to use their advice adequately and
sensitively. As a precondition to improving soil erosion conditions, the
basic problems of poor, landless and marginal farmers (who constitute over 85Z
of the population) will have to be addressed, through a series of confidence
building and institution building measures.
1.07        To accomplish the above, the project will work closely (in a
catalytic role) with appropriate local agencies such as the district
development committees involving the Local Development Office of the Ministry
of Local Development (LDO/MLD), the small farmer development program (SFD) of
the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB/N), village development committees,
ward committees, and local based NGOs to encourage an atmosphere of self-help
and confidence that will be sustainable beyond the life of the project itself.
Technical inputs to the Project would be provided by the Department of Soil
Conservation and Watershed Management of the Ministry of Forests and
Environment (DSCWM/MFE) and by other appropriate ministries such as the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Water Resources through its



- 70 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 3 of 11
irrigation programs. It will, in its pilot role, act as a testing ground for
preparation of a possible IDA financed National Program for Watershed
Management, and is also expected to produce lessons with applications for
large hydropower projects such as the Arun-III Hydropower Project.
II Project Area
2.01        The catchment area is approximately 3900 sq km and lies within the
Gandaki Zone in Nepal's Western Development Region.   It includes Manang
District, most of Lamjung District, and parts of Gorkha and Tanahu Districts.
The topography includes arctic-like Himalayan mountain regions in Manang, the
high and middle mountainous regions of Lamjung and Gorkha, and relatively low
lying hills and river terrace areas along the Marsyangdi River in Tanahu.
Vegetation is extremely diverse, ranging from alpine and desert steppe to
subtropical. A range of ethnic groups inhabit the watershed with equally
diverse social structures and land utilization practices.
2.02        Landuse.  Assessments of existing landuse patterns were conducted
in the early 1980s by the Nepal Remote Sensing Center. These ussessments
based on 1977/78 LANDSAT imagery determined that about 47Z of the land area of
the catchment was comprised of snow, ice and rocks. Approximately 21% of the
catchment was forested and about 16Z covered in shrubland or grassland. Only
152 of the total land area of the catchment is cultivated. Of the land area
of Lamjung District which lies within the Marsyangdi watershed over 21% of the
land is agricultural land, while in Tanahu and Gorkha approximately 57Z and
52% respectively of the catchment area is agricultural land. More substantial
work backed by intensive ground truthing by the Land Resource Mapping Project
(1986) has confirmed the validity of this data.
2.03        Land utilization patterns have undergone rapid changes in the
Marsyangdi catchment, especially along the road from Dumre to Besi Sahar, with
respect to the intensification of agriculture cropping. This increased
intensity of cultivation has reduced the areas available for winter grazing
and consequently increased pressure on existing forest lands. Lack of
management of these newly exploited resources is a major concern of land
resource specialists. Infrastructure is still poorly developed for the
marketing of vegetables and fruits, but could be improved if the Dumre-Besi
Sahar road was an all-weather road.
2.04        Certain geographic areas within the watershed - the valley of the
Paundi Khola (in southern Lamjung), where a number of economically weaker
groups reside; the steep ridges of northern Lamjung, along the course of the
Marsyangdi, where soil sjrosion and land slippage is serious and where
deforestation is a problem; or the valley of Khudi Khola, where there is great
disparity in socio-economic opportunity -- can through the Rapid Rural
Appraisal (RRA) and spatial-sociological aoproaches described below, be
targeted for early involvement.



- 71 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 4 of 11
III. Project ObjeCtives
3.01        The project has three related objectives: the first is to reduce
or stabilize man-induced erosion, thus increasing the sustainable productivity
of agricultural and forest land; the second is to reduce the pressures to
exploit presently unexploited forest areas; and the third is to improve
incomes for farmers within the watershed, especially poor farmers who are
disproportionately dependent on the marginal lands and forest resources for
their subsistence.
3.02        The above three objectives are consistent with each other.  In the
present situation the man made erosion from rainfed cropping of marginal land
and community forest land, the pressures to exploit increasing amounts of
forest lands, and the low farm incomes are interlinked. By reversing the
declining productivity of marginal rainfed cropped land, agricultural output
and farm incomes are increased while at the same time reducing erosion from
this land. By bringing community forest/grazing land under more intensive
management, land productivity for both cattle production and fuelwood
production is increased. This increases farm incomes, reduces the pressures
to move further afield into presently unexploited forest to gather fuelwood,
and reduces land erosion. Rural electrification further reduces the pressure
on forest for fuelwood production and, in itself can assist in the production
of income earning opportunities in micro-enterprises. A direct contributor to
erosion within the project area is the Dumre-Besi Sahar Road whose upgrading
will both reduce the erosion caused by its poor design and construction and
improve access to the area, thus further providing opportunities for the
marketing of agricultural surplus and the output of micro enterprises.
3.03        At present the most intensive users of the marginal lands in the
agricultural communities within the project area are the poorest people in
these communities. Improved productivity from these lands will lead to income
and consumption gains fo- these very low income earners. These are also the
people who are most likely to benefit from job opportunities created by micro
enterprises resulting from rural electrification. Women, who are largely
responsible for both the cattle and the collection of fuelwood, should also
benefit from land management changes that increase the availability of
fuelwood on communal land and that move away from free grazing and towards the
stall feeding of cattle. The project will also encourage the adoption of
horticulture as an income earning opportunity for women.
IV. Project Description
4.01 The project has six components. These are:
*     Local Confidence Building
*     Erosion Control of Marginal Lands
*     Institutional Support for the LDO/MLD and of the DSCWM/MFSC
*     Catchment Wide Erosion Mapping/Monitoring System
*     Upgrading of the Dumre-Besi Sahar Road,
*     Rural Electrification



- 72 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 5 of 11
4.02        Local Confidence Building Measures.  This will be the heart of the
project, and will involve faciiitating the formation of local user groups
within micro-watersheds to initiate locally-defined projects (such as water
supply schemes), dove-tailing with the Small Farmers Dsvelopment Programs
(SFDP) of the ADBIN; the user groups will coordinate or coincide, as
appropriate, with existing user groups set up under other projects such as the
Community Hills Forestry Project. The project will seek to work closely with
district level institutions under the direction of the LDO office within the
district planning process. The following component will grow out of these
efforts to build on local participation.
4.03        Erosion Control of Marginal Lands.  The project will, to the
extent feasible working through the prevailing norms of district-level
government, encourage the management of land use to reduce man made erosion
within the Marsyangdi watershed. The mapping, hazard identification and
monitoring, and sediment monitoring sub-components will be undertaken for the
entire watershed (paras. 4.09-4.10). However, given the pilot nature of the
project, the erosion control component will, initially, encompass one micro-
watershed and expand to four micro-watersheds in the Lamjung District by year
five. Its eventual coverage of the entire watershed will take twenty years.
The pilot project will test the technoiogies and, most important, determine
the most effective application strategies.
4.04        To meet soil conservation goals, land management processes must be
altered. These will be directed towards increasing the productivity of
marginal rainfed lands and increased intensity of management of grazing and
forest lands now under inadequate community management. The approach of the
project will be to work directly with individual farmers and with groups of
farmers, based upon the community, who are utilizing each piece of community
forest/grazing land. A team of subject matter experts will be set up by the
project to develop the required breadth of knowledge and expertise to carry
out this task. Relevant experience gained from other watershed management
projects will be used extensively in initial project set up and on a regular
basis throughout the project. User groups will be formed and encouraged to
take up appropriate technical innovations to increase agricultural
productivity leading to sustainable land use. The GTZ-Dhading experience will
be drawn on in setting up the user groups.
4.05        The project will select the micro watersheds for the pilut project
on the basis of land use, agro-ecological zones, and ethnic composition, so
that together they represent a fair sampling of the watershed. Once selected,
the project team's first task will be to carry out rapid rural appraisal (RRA)
of the communities within the watershed.
4.06        The RRA team should be able to carry out the above appraisal for a
single village in less than 2 weeks. As ongoing interaction with villagers
during the appraisal will be critical to the process, it would not be
advisable for the team to work more quickly.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 6 of 11
4.07        Having carried out the appraisals the team will develop an
implementation strategy looking at: ways of increasing the role of perennial
species for fruit, fodder, firewood and timber on privately owned marginal
rainfed land; methods of assisting in the orderly nanding over of forest land
to the farmers and assisting in its management; options for the management of
livestock in more productive, sustainable systems; and upgraded agronomic,
horticulture and livestock research/extension services to the farmer.
4.08        The above is not exhaustive and will in fact be largely defined by
the identification of problems faced by the farmer during the RRA. The
project will have no funds of its own to assist the farmer in changing land
management; it will perform an extension and training role only. But it will
assist the farmer and land user groups to utilize available lines of credit
through ADB/N, especially the Small Farmers Development Program.
Catchment Wide Erosion Mapping/Monitoring System.
4.09        This project component contains four sub-components. These are:
*   Land use mapping/GIS of the Marsyangdi watershed,
*   Hazard identification and monitoring,
*   Sediment monitoring,
*   Institutional Strengthening of DSCWM/MFSC
4.10        Land Use Mapping/GIS of the Marsyangdi Watershed.  The existing
land resources surveys of the Marsyangdi are not at an acceptable scale nor
format to be useful in watershed management planning. Initially the project
will focus on improving the .orm and substance of the natural resources data
and present them in a format that will assist watershed planners. This will
be accomplished by reflying the whole watershed to produce 1:50,000
photography (1:20,000 for areas below 12,000') and upgrading land use maps
produced by the Land Resource Mapping Project by aerial photographic
inteipretation combined with extensive field checking to determine cropping
systems, agroforestry systems, terrace types, and fertility maintenance
dynamics for the major production pocket areas. A sampling system stratified
by elevation and major landscape/climate units greatly reduces overall
sampling requirements. The mapping will be a prior requirement for both the
hazard identification and on farm erosion control sub-components of the
project.
4.11        Hazard Identification and Monitoring.  As part of the overall
watershed management plant, it is essential that a monitoring programme be
developed to characterize the Marsyangdi River and the major streams flowing
into it. There are many theories and projections regarding the
characterization of Himalayan rivers but a surprising lack of hard data to
support any hydrological models. Two aspects must be addressed, the first
being the assessment of catastrophic events that might threaten the integrity
of the Marsyangdi barrage itself. The second is the sediment load that is



- 74 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 7 of 11
always present in the river and which varies considerably with changes in
discharge; this is dealt with separately, below.
4.12        There have been a number of major geomorphic events in the
Marsyangdi such as major slides which have closed the upper valley for
periods, and such events can have a major impact on the Marsyangdi
hydroelectric power plant. While it is unlikely that man can prevent the
periodic occurrence of major landslide induced floods, they can occasionally
be predicted. Rapid drops in discharge commonly occur before this type of
catastrophic flooding, as the blocked river is temporarily retained behind the
landslide barrier. This reduced discharge can last for a few minutes to hours
or even days. Regardless, there is generally time to close the watergate
intake and open the barrage gates in anticipation of a major flood. This
should be the major strategy for management of catastrophic flooding. Long
duration storm events lead to a gradual increase in discharge and sediment
load. Upstream monitoring of discharge and sediment load can also be used to
decide when to close the watergate intake and open the barrage gates. Recent
innovations in acoustical bed load measurements could provide for an automatic
cut off for the power station when sediment loading reaches an unacceptably
high level.
4.13        Sediment Monitoring must be a major function of the project and is
an essential input into any watershed management program. Frequency of
sediment measurements should be proportional to river discharge. During
absolute peak discharges, when sediment concentration may exceed 30,000 ppm,
measurements must be taken every 5 or 10 minutes to ensure accurate sediment
data are available. On the other hand, at low flows when sediment loads are
constant, rarely exceeding 100 ppm, daily measurements will be sufficient.
The physical and chemical nature of the sediment will provide essential
information to the watershed management project and assist analysis of the
role of man in sediment production. Surface erosion, that induced by man,
resulLs in the removal of topsoil. Natural mass wasting erosion more often
involves all unconsolidated material including topsoil, subsoil saprolite and
fractured rock. The measurement of organic matter, nitrogen and phosphorous
levels of the sediment will assist in determining the origin of the sediment
and the type of erosion causing it.
4.14        Both sediment and hazard monitoring data, together with land use
information, will be collated and processes by the project utilizing a PC
based GIS system at the project site.
Institutional Support for LDO/MLD and DSCWM/MFE
4.15        In order to play their role as implementing agency for the project
there will need to be some institutional support for the LDO/MLD. Much of
this is already incorporated in the local confidence building measures and
erosion control on marginal land components above. Additional to this will be
funds for overseas training for staff.
4.16        The project office will also be responsible for providing
technical support in the areas of mapping and menitoring to DSCWM/MFE staff



- 75 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 8 of 11
assigned to the project. Funds will also be assigned for overseas training
and some additional vehicles to enable MLD and DSCWM staff in Kathmandu to
liaise with the project site in Marsyangdi.
Upgrading of the Dumre-Besi Sahar Road.
4.17        The primary objective of this project component, to be implemented
by the Department of Roads (DOR) is to upgrade the road to year round capab-
ility whiich will open up the region for improved access to markets thus assis-
ting changes towards more sustainable land use. It will also enable better
provision of social services, including administrative support for conservati-
on activities. The upgrading will reduce the serious erosion problems along
the existing road
4.18        Inputs will be provided to upgrade the Dumre-Besi Sahar Road to an
environmentally acceptable standard.  Work required, as.de from bridges, to
make it a viable road will require extensive earthworks, cross and side
drainage, the construction of retaining walls and protection structures, and
graveling. Bio engineering approaches will be used extensively where
appropriate.
4.19        Rural Electrification.  This component, prepared by NEA's
cornsultants, NRECA/NEPECON, will involve the electrification of Besi Sahar,
the headquarters of Lamjung District, urban centers along the Dumre-Besi Sahar
Road, and surrounding rural areas through connection to the national grid.
4.20        The recommended grid extension encompasses a 30 km, 33 kV
transmission line from the Dumre substation supplying a 33-to-11 kV substation
located near Udipar. The Udipar 1.5 I4W substation would have four 11 kV main
feeders extending to Bhulbhule to the north to Dhamilokuwa to the south. The
11 kV system would initially supply 34 villages and small towns serving 2,600
households and businesses, some 15,000 people in all.
4.21        User groups would be organized, as a more efficient means to carry
out the low voltage maintenance and retail billings and collections within
each village. NEA would also establish a user group services program for load
promotion and to test innovative concepts such as demand rates, new household
wiring standards, and decentralization of operations.
V. Implementation
Local Confidence Building Measures/Erosion Control of Marginal Lands/Catchment
Wide Erosion Mapping Monitoring System Program and Institutional Support for
LDO/MLD and DSCWM/MFE
5.01        This component will be the implementing/coordinating
responsibility of the MLD acting through the LDO for Lamjung District with
technical inputs provided by DSCWM/MFE. The Ministry will appoint a project
manager who will be responsible for the execution and implementation of the
project. The project manager will be advised by consultants who will be



- 76 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 9 of 11
provided by the project. Approximately 137 months of expatriate inputs and
300 months of local staff inputs are envisaged. The terms of reference for
this activity are located in the project files. Appointment of the project
manager will be subject to approv 1 by the World Bank and GTZ. The project
will work closely with the DSCWM/MFE (para. 1.07) the SFDP (ADB/N).
5.02        The project consultancy services  will be bid to a reputable
development/management firm and/or NGO through a point weighting for
experience and philosophy of working with local groups, community development,
natural resource management, etc., preferably in Nepal.
5.03        The project office will be set up at one of the presently existing
housing/office sites at the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric project. All
consultants, both expatriate and local, will be based at the project office.
5.04        The project will, through its consultants and extension staff, and
based upon the information gathered in the RRA's, start to work with farmers
and community groups to bring about change in the land management practices
that are leading to soil erosion from marginal land.
5.05        The aim will be to bring about sufficient change in the lani
management within each community that it will in time become a self sustaining
effort within that community without need of further project input. The key
to the project's success will be the level of confidence and trust it inspires
in the local groups. By the end of the pilot project the consultants will be
expected to have come up with a plan for extension of the project throughout
the Marsyangdi watershed, based upon the support and training of staff in
existing Nepalese Government institutions.
5.06        Upgrading of the Dumre-Besi Sahar Road.  This component will be
implemented by the Department of Roads with thirty six man months of
consultancy support provided by the project for design and supervision.
5.07        Rural Electrification.  Construction of the transmission and
distribution system would be implemented by NEA, with a project office at NEA
headquarters and a district office in the Marsyangdi area for construction and
operation of the 33 and 11 kV systems. The project would supply.consultancy
services to assist in the setting up of a electricity user groups.
5.08        The initial (pilot) phase of the project will be five years,
followed by a twenty year period where methodologies and experiences will be
applied basin-wide. To coordinate these activities a Marsyangdi Catchment
Development Committee (to be later designated as a subcommittee of the
District Development Committee once it is established) would be formed and
chaired by the Local Development Officer of Lamjung District (where most
activities would be concentrated) with members comprising local
representatives of MLD/DIZDP, MFE/DSCWM, NEA, DOR and representatives of other
relevant ministries, such a-s Agriculture and local user groups.  A project
implementation organization chart is included in Attachment 1 while a project
implementation schedule is included in Attachment 2.



- 77 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 10 of 11
VI Project Costs
6.01        Total cost for the project is US$9.8 million (US$13.7 million
including physical and price contingencies). The Dumre-Besi Sahar Road
component costs US$2.5 million, the rural electrification component costs
US$2.6 million, the soil conservation-erosion reduction component costs
US$4.1 million and the institutional support for MLD/LDO and DSCWM/MFSC costs
US$0.6 million.
Summary Cost Table
(US$ ,000)
Foreign    Local    Total
Road                                1,842        708    2,550
Rural Electrification               1,621        679    2,300
Soil Conservation                   2,685        985    3,670
Institutional Support                 550         60      610
Total                               6,698     2,432    9,130
Physical & Price Contingencies
(25Z)                             1,675        608    2,283
Total with Contingencies            8,373      3,038   11,411
VII. Project Justification and Benefits
7.01        The completion of the Marsyangdi hydropower power plant has, so
far, produced no direct benefits to the populatlin of the Marsyangdi
watershed. At the same time, the plant is faced with not only a high silt
load in the Marsyangdi River that promises to worsen over time as erosion
increases from the degraded marginal land in the catchment, but also the
possibility of severe damage from flash-floods if landslides prevalent
upstream are not adequately monitored. This project addresses these issues
and will both improve productivity and incomes within the Marsyangdi watershed
and, at the same time, reduce man made erosion.
7.02        In ita pilot stage the project will lead to output increases on
1,500 hectares of agricultural land spread over four micro-watersheds and
improvement management of 3,150 hectares of presently badly exploited
forest/grazing land that is communally managed. On expansion to the entire
watershed these figures will be 58,600 hectares of agricultural land and
123,000 hectares of forest. In improving the management of this communal
forest/grazing land the pressures for encroachment on the unexploited forest
will be reduced. The road component is a necessary precondition for expanding
the project to include the entire watershed.



- 78 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 11 of 11
7.03        The rural electrification component will supply 15,000 people in
the pilot project stage, with a further expansion to serve approximately
42,000 people; as well as domestic consumers the electricity will stimulate
the growth of micro-enterprises within the service area.
Washington, D.C.
February 18, 1992



NEPAL
POVER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Marsyanadi Catchmnt MYnngeomnt Pilot Proiect
Proiect Iwpl_mentation Organization Chart
MARSYANGDI CATCHUENT DEELOP SENT  COORDINATION COOUITStE
LOO (CHAIRMAN), LOCAL REPRESENTATIVES OF DOR
NEA, MLD, MFE, REPRESENTATIVES OF OTHER RELEPANT
PINISTRIES MPE  LOCAL USER      ADVIS
BESIAMA  R_A UPRDN   R.         CTHETMNGMN EPO.                                                     MESRSEOSO   OTO
MINISTRY OF WORKS                         NEA BOARD                         OINISTRY OF FORESTS AND   MA UINISTRY OF LOCAL DEVELOPTENT
AND TRANSPOtT                                               _ENVI RONMENT
|    EARTMENT OF ROD'                           NEA                |O EATSN   F SOIL CONSER-  |IN ATDX  FDTEGRAE                               j
DEPARTMENTMET  DE ROSION                 OF         TE
E !                                                      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VATION AND WATERSHED JGMT.      RAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS 
,   l  r                              .                   ~~~~~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~~TECHNICAL  PROJECT MANAGER   COSLU
PROJECT MANAGER - DUlMRE-           PROJECT MANAGER - MARSYANGDI   p--  OSLAT             ADVISOR   _ LOCAL CONFIDENCE BUILDING _  
BSESISAHAR RDAD UOPGRADING PRO.       CATOHUENT MANAGEMENT RE PROJ.                                       M EASURES/EROSION CONTRL          
OF MARGINAL LANDS/CATCH-
MENT WIDE EROSION
MONITORING SYSTEM
rt



tD}Q   ntaon   h*dule
1992                  1993                      1"94                        195                       1996
A t i  J A S O N D   JFtA14JJASOND JFtAtJ JASOND   JFtAtJ.JASOND   J F 11 A    J J A S O N D
LOCAL C111fmXV E  JILDIG PFC t  RE/519SI13N
C3dRuDLPIAPrNO-H4WMtDtC SYSTEM
- Cclete Initial Set t. Inventory and
Entry Point Determination for Village lndsr
Study
- Activation of U..r Croup(s)
- Rfinement of Suitable Tachnologies for
I proving Soil Production and Suatna;bileity
and Livestock Ibnures in Comost Production
and Distribution
- De.*lo t/Iiplementat;on of Dant Beoe  tied
to Catchant Land Use
- Evaluation of Implementation of COPP
tUM1E-BESMSg  ROAD UPGRADDC
- Prepare Deign and Bi4din" Document.
- Eeluate Bide and Award Contract
- Undrtake Road Construction
VARSMYMA I CATCH1ET RE
- Finalize Design and Isue Bidding Document
Evaluate Bida and Award Contracts
-Delivery
- Erect and Install
- Comeision
- Activate User Croup-                                                                                                                                                                                  O
E9tDERUWC PM TEDNUCAL ASSISTANCE
- Appoint Consultant for Local Confidence
Building laessures/Erosion Control/Catchent
Wide Erosion Mapping/lbnitoring Syst.m.
- Appoint Consultant for Road Uplgrading
- Appoint Conawltant for RE
Itr



- 81 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 5
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Description of Energy Audit Program
A.          Background
1.          The industry sector of Nepal accounts for just under 5Z of total
GDP, about 2.42 of total energy demand in the country, about 8Z of imported
energy requirements and about 25% of the share of total monetized energy
consumption in the country. The sector is small and until the recent Trade
and Transit (T&T) impasse with India, production was expanding at a rapid
rate. About 802 of industry in Nepal is estimated to be in agro processing
and food related production which involves a considerable amount of low
temperature water heating and steam raising processes. Energy conversion
processes are ideal candidates for simple housekeeping efficiency
improvements, given the antiquated state of many of the furnaces, boilers and
related equipment in common use and the common lack of flow gauges, metering
devices and which are needed to monitor and maintain even a reasonable level
of energy efficiency in production activities. The table below indicates the
relative share of different fuels used by industry, including the modern,
traditional and cottage industry classifications.
Estimated
1990/91 Demand
ENERGY TYPE                       (000,GJ)                        Z
Electricity                          521                         10.7
Fuelwood                           1,690                         34.7
C/Coal                             1,493                         30.7
Kerosene                              23                          0.5
Diesel                               197                          4.0
Fuel Oil                             629                         12.9
Bagasse                               62                          1.3
Ag. Res.                             173                          3.6
Charcoal                              68                          1.4
Other                                  9                          0.2
TOTAL                              4,868                        100.0
B.          Scope for Efficiency Improvements
2.          The four broad areas for efficiency improvements are:
-     retrofits and improvement in operation
-     waste heat recovery and co-generation
-     recycling and recovery of waste material
-     changes in manufacturing processes and production methods.



- 82 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 5
The proposed audit program would focus on retrofits and improvement in
operation. These would be simple measures such as leak plugging in heating
and cooling processes, descaling of boilers, use of thermal insulation or
lagging of boilers and pipes carrying heatang and cooling fluids, tuning of
boilers, adjusting the mixing of fuel and air to provide better combustion,
enhancement of heat transfer, servicing and repair of steam distribution and
condensate return systems, improving instrumentation for energy-efficiency
purposes, and so on. Housekeeping measures can be accomplished out of
operating and maintenance budgets and capital investment is not always
necessary. Some of the larger industries in Nepal appear to have capability
and interest to develop simple waste heat recovery processes though co-
generation may be more complex. Opportunities for recovery of waste material
and recycling are generally known but in many cases have not been utilized.
It is doubtful that changes in manufacturing processes and production methods
can be considered except at equipment renewal stages or in relation to any
existing proposals for plant extensions or for conversions to electricity or
charcoal when they are economically feasibile.
C.          Approach in Developing the Audit Program
3.          It is proposed that an industrial energy audit program in Nepal
would consist of the following general principles and elements:
(i)    The Effort Should be Based at the Ministry of Industry
An operating "Energy Services" Unit" or entity would be formed
under the auspices of the Ministry of Industry. This would have
the advantage of not fully encumbering operations of the audit
function with HMG/N procedures. Secondly, the client base, which
largely comprises of private sector and autonomous industries may
appreciate dealing more with a technical resource with a private
sector orientation and operating procedures.
(ii)    A Roster of Local Consultants Should be Trained to Carry Out
Audits
The approach would be to train and utilize local consultants to
perform the audits. A prequalified list of consultants can be
identified and they would be selected or assigned on a rotational
basis tc audit selected industries. Approval for disbursement of
funds for their work could come from the "Energy Service Unit"
working in conjunction with the Ministry of Industry, which will
play the coordination and supervision role.
(iii)    A Targeted Approach Should be Used for Selecting Industries for
Auditing
A detailed approach for selection of the industries to be audited
should be developed using a priority classification system such
as:



- 83 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 3 of 5
Industries with a predetermined amount of annual expenditure
of energy.
Industries relying heavily on imported energy.
Industries where the highest returns are available from
efficiency and substitution measures.
Industries using woodfuels.
(iv)    The Audit Program Should be Designed to Consider Both Energy
Efficiency and Substitution Opportunities
Reduction of imported energy and woodfuels requirements is an
important objective, as is the objective of reducing operating
costs. The energy audits themselves should be developed in
perhaps three levels of sophistication:
(a)   Level A Audit - Requires least time and focuses on simply
housekeeping measures such as boiler efficiency, and
insulation measures, sizing of motors to load, etc.;
(b)   Level B Audit - Expanded to look in more detail at process
and energy flows and equipment efficiency. Looks at heat
recovery potential; and
(c)   Level C Audit - Is a comprehensive audit of all equipment
and procedures. This involves desk work and up to 2 to 3
revisits to the plant to confirm the analysis and
recommendations.
(v)    Three Levels of Training Should be Incorporated in the Audit
Program
(a)   For Building Owners and Managers - An awareness program
possibly consisting of a one or two day meetings with plant
owners and operators is required as an initial first step.
Plant managers have to support the program or it will fail.
(b)   For Energy Auditors - Training of the energy auditors is a
key activity. There needs to be standard procedures for
level A, B and C audits and Ministry of Industry, or their
executing agency, would have to certify audits have been
completed to standards presented in the training programs;
and
(c)   For Plant i4aintenance Staff - In order to have plant
maintenance staff, boiler operators and technicians involved
in energy efficient practices for operating and maintaining
plant equipment, it is desirable to offer training courses
for staff.



- 84 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 4 of 5
(vi)    Specialized Equipment Required for Audits would have to be
Purchased and Maintained in a Central Facility
The "Energy Service Unit" would maintain and make available
specialized equipment and diagnostic tools for carrying out energy
audits. These would be lent to the local consultants trained in
their use who will carry out the audits and ensure greater
utilization of such equipment. Larger industries may purchase and
maintain their own diagnostic equipment and install monitoring
equipment.
(vii)    Capital Expenditures ideeded to Implement the Measures Would be
Expected to come from the Industries themselves
Since industries are operating on a commercial basis with the
interest of reducing costs it is anticipated that practical
measures identified in the audits which have short term payback,
and which can be affe-ted with local materials, or as simply low-
cost, no-cost measures can be taken up by industries themselves.
However, for small industries the CSI existing line of credit
could be used to finance attractive investments in the energy
conservation and/or substitution. Criteria for screening energy/
conservation projects would have to be agreed between IDA, the
Ministry of Industry and the participating Credit Institutions.
(viii)    The Role of Existing Industry and Energy Sector Organization in
the Industrial Energy Audit Program would have to be Clearly
Defined
The commercial department of NEA has a strong interest in the
energy audit program with respect to the procedures and extent to
which additional substitution by electricity is identified.
Secondly, the audit program will identify electrical efficiency as
well as substitution measures. Since industry is the second
largest consumer of power, and real changes in the expected load
for this sector will be important to NEA.
(ix)    Recommended First Step
A team of, 3 individuals, should be sent to observe an industrial
energy audit program in operation and to see the results and
problems, collect software and copies of training programs, etc.
EGAT in Thailand has taken some steps in the direction of
:industrial energy Audits. (The Energy Conservation Center there
audited 100 factories by the end of 1982. The savings were
reported to be 260 million Bhat per year for an initial investment
cost of 84 rillion bhat.)



- 85 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 5 of 5
The Energy Conservation Center in Thailand also distributes the
following booklets which should be used as reference material:
-     Economic Use of Oil Fired Boilers
-     Electricity Savings in Industry
-     Power Factor Improvement
-     Factory Energy Management
-     Factory En^rgy Audit
-     Condensate and Flash Stream Utilization
-     Economical Thickness of Insulation
-     Energy Conservation Newsletter



- 86 -
ANNEX 3.4
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foroign  Total   Exchange
----(Rupee million)---    ----(USt million)----    %
A. Generation Rehabilitation
1. Trisuli Upgrading                147.0  882.8  1009.3      8.4    20.2   23.8    86.4
Sub-Total                       147.0  S62.8  1009 S      a.4    YOU      28.8    86.4
B. HV Reinforcemnt
1. Kathm ndu 182/66 kV              62.6   875.8   4U8.2      1.6     8.8    10.8      85.7
2. HV Operational Spares             17.1  100.1   117.2      0.4     2.8      2.7     86.4
3. Duhabi-Katalya Interconnection  12.4    76.2    88.6       0.8      1.8     2.1     88.0
Sub-Total                       i7f   561.9   644.0      2.12   2F9   T1. I        5.7
C. NEA Infrastructure/Buildings
1. NEA Headquarters/Facilitios       20.0    63.0   88.0      0.5     1.6      1.9     76.9
2. NEA E/M Workshops                 19.8   S6.9    86.7      0.6     1.5      2.0     76.9
3. NEA Training Center               48.6  106.2   165.8    1.1       2.5      3.6     68.4
Sub-Total                       IN    2a44  i   a22       2.1     6.6      7.S6    72.6
D.  Marsyangdi Crtchment Plan
1. Soil Conservation/Watershed      41.2   118.7  164.9       1.0     2.7      8.8     78.4
2. Roadbank Stabilization            29.4    81.0   110.4     0.7      1.9     2.6     73.4
3.  Institutional Strengthening       3.1    21.1    24.2     0.1     0.6      0.6     87.2
4. Rural Electrification             82.0    64.2   96.2      0.7      1.6     2.8     68.7
Sub-Total                      15T      TR 28. 0   TI.7   2. T.            9.      72
E.  Industrial Energy Audits
and Load Management                 7.8   103.0   110.8     0.2     2.4      2.6     93.0
Sub-Total                         7.8   13i 0   1i1-V     U7i    :i        T7      98.0
F. Technical Assistance
1. Consultant Services                6.4   145.3  160.7      0.1     3.4      3.6     96.4
2.  Institution Building              6.8  167.7  173.6       0.1      8.9     4.1     96.7
8. Studies of Hydro. Projects        16.2  192.8  207.6       0.4     4.6      4.8     98.2
Sub-Total                        23.   606.3   fl.7 I           Ei" -             U .
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                487.4  2636.6  3004.0    10.9   59.4   70.4        84.4
Physical Contingencies               91.4  288.7  380.1       2.1      8.8     8.9     76.0
Price Contingencies                 146.3   268.6  899.8      3.4      S.9     9.4     68.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 705.1  3078.8  8788.9   16.6    72.1    88.6       81.4
Q--__- --    _ _       =        =       -=
NOTES:  1.  Total physical contingencies are about 13% of base cost; local price contingencies
are about 23X and foreign price contingencies are about 9% of tho respective base
cost plus physical contingencies.
2.  Identifiable taxes and duties are about NRa 172.0 million (USS4.0 million) and the
total Projeut cost, not of taxes is NRs 3856.1 million (US878.6 million equivalent).
LATEST 10/24



- 87                           ANNEX 3.5
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Project Implementation Organization Chart
MANAGING DIRECTOR                    SECRETARY OF        EXEC. SEC.
NEA                              INDUSTRY             WECS
I        ~~DIC      _F= PROJECT I
ENGINEERING                COODINTO
|CONSULTANT         PROJEC T MANAGER    1  11
I ~~~~TRISULI/DEVIGAT 1 11
DIC                                 11   11                             11
CONSTRUCTION                            1  11
,_ PROJECT MANAGER   l1  11
ICONSULTAN       KATHMANDU 132/66 KV       1[
PROJECT MANAGER
DIC       ~~DIRECTOR                 LRP & LOAD        _   CONSULTANTI ]
_ DCS  --  COMMERCIAL DEP          r       MANAGEMENT                        1
I  DIRECTOR                                                    1
TECHNICAL SERVICES _[
11
11
11
11
- |    DIC                 POETMNNE
CONSTRUCTO          -   MAINTENANCE WORK-                                  1
I               I F1 ~~~~SHOP, TRAINING CNTI
I  I    DIC  F  J I
I O&MI
I DIRECTOR         F
L-HUMAN RESOURCES DEV|
LA ne Management Links
Liaison Links



POtli SIBIIEFFlCIE@CY PROJECT
Ilee_nt.tion Sched4de
_991                     1992           _          19                        1994                      19v5                1996
JFHAtJJAS NDK             JFH A JJASOND   JFMAJJjFSOND   JF# JAAJJASOND   JFtA"JJASOND   JFHANJ
A.                           t ne
- Tnering/Contract Signing
- pufacture & DOe ivery
- Civi Constructieon Works
- Intllation/Testing & Comissioning
B. Rqinforce_ntAbmredain, of Lt' Networks
- Tendering/Contract Signing                                              E
-  eniufacture & Del 'cr                                                                         ______
I ete I  ati;onTesting & C.i;sionin_
C   MEA Infrastructure Foci I iti
_b) b      tintessen _o_ _h_                                                                                                    _
- Tendering/Delivery
-it a tlluildinp                                                                                                               _                                                            a
(c)  Trginin Ce C    teu   EntSbbli _IUSt_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
- Tendorinf,/Deliviry EquipA.nt
D.   eroavancdi Waters4ed tNnaIgMf_.Mz
APPoint_nt 0e Consultanta.
- Tendering/Procuresnt
- lolemlnta  ion
E. Industrial Eery Efficiency Proiect
- Establieheent of Energy Services Unit
- Begin AuNdi t                                                               _
- Procuraent/in-atl I Ition
E * Tender Evaluation Begins
C . Contract Award
I.



- 89 -
ANNEX 3.7
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Disbursement Profile
Cumulative Disbursement Cumulative Disbursement
(Project)                 (Project)
Fiscal Year                         (US$ Million)                   (Z)
1991192:  December 31, 1992                0
June 30, 1993                 7.8                        12
1992/93:  December 31, 1993             15.5
June 30, 1994                28.5                        44
1993/94:  December 31, 1994             38.6
June 30, 1995                45.5                        70
1994195:  December 31, 1995             52.6
June 30, 1996                59.8                        92
1995/96:  December 31, 1996             61.5
June 30, 1997                63.0                        97
1996/97:  December 31, 1997             64.5
June 30, 1998                65.0                       100



NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Financing Plan by Project Component
(Million US$)
Amount      HMGIN       NEA        IDA      FRANCE    GERMANY      NDF
A.  Generator Rehabi'itation
- Trisuli Upgrading
- Civil Works                    17.2                   1.9       15.3
- Equipment                      13.3                   1.3       12.0
B.  HV Reinforcement                     19.9                   2.1      14.8                              3.0            '
C.  NEA Infrastructure/Buildings
-  Civil Works                       3.2                    0.9       1.9         0.4
-  Equipment, Vehicles, Tools        6.6                    0.5       3.2         2.9
D.  Marsyangdi Catchment Plan
- Soil Conservation/Watershed )
-  Institutional Support        )    4.9         0.7                                        4.2
-  RE Marsyangdi                     3.0         0.6                                                   2.4
-  Dumre Besisahar Road              3.6         0.3                  3.3
E.  Industrial Energy Audits and
Load Management                   3.3         0.1       0.3        2.9
F.  Consultant Services    )
Institution Building   )            13.6                   0.3       11.6         1.8
88.6        1.6        7.3      65.0         5.1       4.2        5.4



- 91 -                      ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 5
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
FYs 1993 - 1997
GENERAL
Escalation and Exchange Rates
The financial projections are based on the following escalation rates
for foreign and local currency, and for converting US#1.00 into Nepalese
Rupees:
Rate of
Exchange
Fiscal Year                  Local           Foreign                 NRs
1991                      11.0              3.4                   32.5
1992                      11.0              3.4                   42.7
1993                       8.0              3.4                   44.7
1994                       6.5              3.4                   46.1
1995                       6.5              3.4                   47.5
1996                       6.0              3.4                   48.7
1997                       6.0              3.4                   50.0
INCOME STATEMENTS
Energy Generation (GWh)
The forecast of hydro and thermal generation required to meet the load
demand over the five year period FY93-97 was determined by a power system
simulation program.
Energy Purchases
From India: Energy purchases from India are limited to 65 GWh up to
FY94 due to limitations of the available physical facilities. Thereafter,
with the completion of the Duhabi-Kataya transmission line imports could rise
up to 50 MW depending upon requirements.
Fro' HMG/N:  Except for the second half of FY90, no bulk purchase of
electricity is envisaged from HMG/N. During the period Jan-July 1990, a total
of 232 GWh was purchased from HMG/N (MHPP). Thereafter, yearly purchase of
only about 40 GWh is assumed from HMG/N to meet the anticipated demand.
NEA9s Electricity Consumption (GWh)
Forecasts assume that NEA's electricity consumption will amount to about
1t of total hydroelectric units generated plus 5Z of total thermal units
generated.



- 92 -                      ANNEX 4.1
Page 2 of 5
System Losses
Under a system loss reduction program, system losses (including NEA's
own consumption) as percentage of gross generation are forecast to decline
from 25.0 in FY92 to 21.0Z in FY97.
Energy Sales
Sales to Nepal are based on the demand forecast. Sales to India are
based on an agreement with India which currently envisages an export level of
up to 50 MW based on availability of power.
Average Revenue/kWh
Forecast average revenue/kWh is calculated on the basis that HMG/N will
permit NEA to set tariffs at such levels so as to satisfactorily comply with
both: (a) a self-financing covenant and (b) a rate-of-return covenant. (a)
Under the self-financing covenant, operating revenues are required to cover:
(i) cash operating expense; (ii) debt service; (iii) additional working
capital (other than cash); and (iv) annual contributions to local investment
costs (including interest during construction) as follows:
FY        92       93      94      95       96      97
Z       45Z     50%      552     602      65%     702
(b) UJnder the rate of return covenant, starting in FY96, NEA is to earn rates
of return on average net current value of fixed assets of not less than 5% for
FY96 and 62 thereafter.
Revenue from Electricity Sales
(i) Nepal: Forecasts of revenue for the period FY92-97 are based on
the demand forecast and the average revenue/kWh derived from calculations in
the previous paragraph.
(ii) India. As agreed between HMG/N and GOI, starting January 1989,
the average seiling price of electricity between Nepal and India was fixed at
IRs 0.9v/kWh (Rs. 1.512/kWh @ IRs 1.00 = NRs. 1.68).  The agreement further
stipulated an escalation rate of 8.5Z per annum (CY).
Other Operating Revenue
These mainly include miscellaneous services to consumers, such as
transfer/replacement of meters, application fees, reconnection of service,
etc., and are assumed to increase by 102 p.a.
Fuel Expenses
Fuel expenses have been forecast on the basis of existing fuel prices,
adjusted for foreign inflation rates, and the utilization of thermal plants.



- 93 -                      ANNEX 4.1
Page 3 of 5
Energy Purchases
(i) HMGIN: Subject to HMG/N's final confirmation, the bulk rate of the
energy to be purchased during FYs 92-97 from HMG;N is assumed to remain at
Rs 0.70 per KWh.
(ii) India: The purchase price is same as the sale price mentioned
above.
Salaries, Wages and Allowances
Salaries, wages and allowances have been estimated to increase by about
24% during FY92 and 102 p.a. thereafter.
Operation and Administration
This item comprises maintenance and general administration and overhead
expenses, other than salaries, wages and allowances. Annual increases are
estimated at 102 p.a. per annum.
Depreciation
Forecast depreciation expense is calculated at 3X of average revalued
gross fixed assets in service. (Starting FY89, assets have been revalued
annually as per Annex 4.2).
Income Tax
Income tax is calculated at 40% of net operating income after interest.
Deferred Charges
( i) Unpaid debt: Following a detailed study (on NEA's unpaid debt to
HMG/N) initiated by IDA and subsequently endorsed by HMG/N
(provisionally), NEA's unpaid debt (accrued but not serviced) to
HMG/N has been established to be at Rs. 133.6 million as of July
15, 1990. Also, the total energy purchased from MHD3 has been
agreed at Rs. 84.3 million. These dues totalling
Rs. 217.9 million (Rs. 133.6 million + Rs. 84.3 million) have been
set-off by HMG/N's dues of Rs. 169.9 million to NEA as of July 15,
1990 arising out of: (a) accounts receivable from HMG/N's offices
(Rs. 34.9 million); (b) accounts receivable from parastatals
(Rs. 58.1 million); (c) compensation from HMG/N because of the 15%
tariff reduction granted to domestic consumers during the period
April 1989 and August 1990 (Rs. 41.4 million); and (d) energy
consumed by MHDB during its construction (Rs. 35.5 million).
Thus, NEA's net unpaid debt as of July 15, 1990 stands at Rs. 48.0
million.
(ii) Marsyangdi debt relief: As discussed in para. 4.17, the total
debt service relief on account of MHPP has been:
Rs. 502.9 million for FY91 and Rs. 500.0 million for FY92.



- 94 -                       ANNEX 4.1
Page 4 of 5
Fixed Assets
As of July 15, 1989, NEA's assets have been revalued and included in
their provisional audit report for FY89. The figures take into account
verification/valuation studies carried out by Coopers and Lybrand Deloitte of
all NEA's fixed assets other than 11 kV distribution system and below.
Necessary verification/valuation of the remaining items were done jointly by
NEA/EdF and appropriate adjustments will be incorporated in NEA's FY90
accounts. For future projections, as agreed with IDA, NEA will revalue assets
each year based oGl methodology discussed in Annex 4.2.
Current Assets
Cash
Given NEA's acute financial position, cash balances have been projected
to remain at 2 months of cash operating expense.
Inventories
Inventories which consist of stores, maintenance supplies, and fuel
reserves, have been estimated to remain at 1Z of average gross fixed assets.
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable have been projected to remain at 3 months of
electricity sales.
Advances Recoverable
Advances recoverable consist of advances for letters of credit, official
staff travel and expense, suppliers of stores and equipment, and services
contracted. Forecast assumes about a 102 annual increase.
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable
Accounts payable have been forecast to remain at 3 months of the
following: (a) cash operating expenses (excluding energy purchases);
(b) local component of the investment program (excluding interest during
construction); and (c) accrued interest.
Miscellaneous Deposits
Miscellaneous deposits consist of consumer deposits, suppliers' and
contractors' deposits. These are projected to remain at 3Z of revenue sales
in Nepal.
Purchase of Energy
These are assumed to remain at three months of yearly purchases.



_ 95 -                      ANNEX 4.1
Page 5 of 5
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENT
Consumers Contribution
These are assumed to increase at 10 p.a.
Borrowing/Long Term Debt
These are projected from NiA's capital investment program. Projections
assume that 802 of future foreign currency costs will be financed through long
term loans (from HMG/N) with the balance provided as equity. Local cost
contributions that are to be provided by HMG/N are assumed to be by equity as
well.
Debt Service
The assumed terms of future debt (on unsecured foreign loans) are:
interest at 10.252 p.a. and repayment period of 25 years, including grace
period of 5 years on repayment of principal. Foreign exchange risk (during
repayment) is assumed to be borne by HMG/N. In view of the debt relief
measure proposed (para. 4.16), debt relief against MHPP loan for FYs 91 and 92
are ass'aaed at 100% of accrued debt service requirement (RS. 531.1 million);
the repayment of principal being rescheduled for the remaining 28 years and
the unpaid interest deferred for the two years, to be repaid in 20 years
thereafter.



- 96 -                       ANNEX 4.1
Attachment 1
NEPAL
POWER SECTCR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Asset Revaluation Methodology
Starting in FY89, NEA has included asset revaluation as a part of
their accounting practice. In view of the high cost involved for undertaking
verification and full engineering revaluation annually, as agreed with IDA,
NEA will adopt a policy of annual revaluations by using appropriate yearly
index numbers. Accordingly, the following methodology will be used unless IDA
required otherwise:
(a) All assets will be subject to annual revaluation by using a single
multiplying factor;
(b) all assets are assumed to comprise of 80% of foreign components and
20Z local components;
(c) escalation rates for foreign and local components as provided by
IDA will be used for annual revaluation; and
(d) the foreign component of the assets will be escalated with foreign
inflation rate and local component of assets will be escalated with
the local inflation rate. The revaluation rate (R) for any year T
would be:
RT = (0.8*F.I.) + (0.2*L.I.)
F.I. = Foreign Inflation Rate
L.I. = Local Inflation Rate



- 97 -                                     ANNEX 4.2
NEPAL
NEPAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
POVVER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
SUMMARY INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(Rs. Million In current prices)
INVESTMENT            Fiscal Year       1992     1993      1994     1995      199      1997
Generation             - Foreign          346      606      1453     1048      6289     8065
- Local            63       104      181       219      930      1066
Sub-total                                410       710     1633      1267     7219      9131
Transmission           - Foreign          103      263       241      157       448      877
- Local            57       52        48       45        87       157
Sub-total                                160       315      289       202      535      1034
-Istribution           - Forelgn          273      423       333      213       237      386
- Local           260       182      174      139       143       166
Sub-total                                533       604      507       352      380       552
Rural Electrification  - Foreign          201      578       466      466       224      490
- Local           112       86       141       182      110       68
Sub-total                                313       664      607       648      334       578
Micellaneous          - Foreign          402      521       427      184         9        0
- Local            74       104       88       31         2         0
Sub-total                                477       625      514       215       11         0
Total Investment       - Foreign         1326     2391      2918     2069      7207     9817
- Local           567      528       632      616      1272      1477
Total                                   1893      2919     3551      2685     8479    11294
Source: NEA Estimates



CA c 1: BASE CASE (5 MSLTIFUIELS)       01/31/92              NEPAL ELECa...CITY AUTHORITY
01:00 PH              .............-.-.-._...
INCONE STATEMENT
................
(RI fillion)
.._..........
Fiscal year ending 15 July                  1986     1987    1988    1989       1990    1991      1992    1993      1994    1995      1996    1997
1----- audited --*----  pre-audl  I est.]  C est.]    [-----------------  forecast -----------------I
Energy generated CGWh)
E   hydro                              428.0   539.7   558.6   545.4   474.9   837.0   912.0   960.0   991.0   912.0  1054.0  1145.0
- thermat                                3.0      0.9      2.5    11.2       1.0      0.6      0.0      0.0    12.0   122.0        6.0      8.0
Total Enerrgy  enerated                    431.0   540.6   561.1   556.5   475.9  8W7.6   912.0   960.0  1003.0  1034.0  1062.0  1153.0
Energy purchased from India (GWh)           58.1    30.9    63.0   115.8    60.2    33.0           9.0    27.0    57.0    99.0   168.0   175.9
Energy purchased from NII/N                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   232.Q       0.0    40.0    42.0    43.0    44.0    44.0    44.0
Total Energy Available tCUh)               489.1   571.5   624.1   672.4   768.1    870.6   961.0  1029.0  1103.0  1177.0  1274.0  1372.0
NEA consutption (GUh)                        7.0    10.9       7.4      8.8     10.6    12.0       9.1      9.6    10.5    15.2    10.9    11.9
System Losses (GUh)                       141.10   149.60   157.20   167.43   210.08   194.20   231.13  237.36   243.18  244.90  262.97  276.27
System Losses as a X of Av.Energy '         30.3    28.1    2S.4    26.2    28.7    23.7    25.0    24.0    23.0    22.1              21.5    21.0
Energy Sold (GWh) - Nepal                  319.5   390.2   443.5   478.5   524.2   588.6   686.0   745.0   809.0   874.0   954.0  1035.0
- India                   21.5    20.8    16.0    17.6    23.i    75.8    34.8    37.0    40.3    42.9    46.1    48.9
Total Energy sold                          341.0   411.0   459.5   496.1    547.5    664.4    720.8   782.0    849.3   916.9  1000.1  1083.9
Av. revenue rate In Nepal (Rs/kWh)          1.16     1.15     1.22     1.39     1.38     1.38     1.94    2.75      2.98     3.51     4.61     5.22
Increase In Av. Rev. Rate (1)                                                             0.0    40.5    41.7        8.6     17.5    31.3    13.3
OPERATING REVEHJE
..    . .......
Electricity sales
- Nepal                                372.1    447.6    539.5   667.2   723.3   812.3  1330.1  2046.8  2414.2  3065.7  4394.3  5401.1
-  India                                 4.9      4.8     12.0    23.1      36.7   129.6    64.5    74.6    88.1    101.6   118.'   136.4
.~~~~~~~~~~~-                -      ....     -- -  .  .        - -       - -     ....     ..  ...
Total Electricity Sales                    377.0   452.4   551.5   690.3   760.1   941.9  1394.6  2121.3  2502.3  3167.3  4512.8  5537.5
Other operating revenue                      8.4     11.2     16.0    21.6    22.t    25.1        27.6    30.4    33.4       36.8    40.4    44.5
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                    385.4    463.7   567.5    711.9   782.9    967.0   1422.3  2151.7  2535.7  3204.1   4553.3   5582.0
OPERATING EXPENSES
Fuel                                         7.6      4.0      4.6    27.1       4.6      3.3      0.0      0.0     22.2    240.2     16.7    17.7
Energy purchases                            11.5      7.1     63.8    138.8    174.8    42.8    44.7    83.8    154.6   265.4    462.8    519.1
salaries, wages & allowances                89.8   114.1    139.7   171.3   187.6   282.5   350.3   385.4   423.9   466.3   512.9   564.2
Operation & administration                  53.1     68.2    62.2    86.4       88.8    125.4   205.7   226.2    248.8   273.7   301.1    331.2
DepreciatIon                                80.1    114.8    134.7   148.0   555.1    778.5   891.8   946.7   1053.1   1170.1   1405.9  1534.0
Provisions (Grat., Bonus & B/D)              0.0      0.0     26.8    26.2      27.5      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Reduction of Def. Charges                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    12.0    53.0       18.8    20.7    22.8    25.1
Bad Debt Expenses                            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.2      0.3      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                   242.1   308.3   431.7   597.9  1038.7  1232.5  1504.5  1695.1  1921 .4  2436.5  2722.2  2991.4
OPERATING INCOME                           143.3   155.4   135.8   114.0  -255.8  -265.5   -82.2   456.6   614.3   767.6  1831.0  2590.6
Interest expenses                          103.2   120.8   125.8   137.7   133.6   125.1   153.4   874.9   887.7  1026.2  1147.8  1454.3
Income after Interest before Tax           40.1    34.7    10.0   -23.7  -389.4  -390.6  -235.6  -418.3  -273.4  -258.6   683.2  '136.3
Income tax                                  2.4      11.4    13.8       2.4     10.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   273.3   454.5
Prior Tree Adjustment                        0.0     11.0      1.8   -26.0       0.6      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   .
NET INCOHE                                  37.8    12.3    -5.6    -0.1   -400.7  -390.6  -235.6  -418.3  -273.4   -258.6   409.9   681.8                    4-
Av. Net Fixed Assets In service           2412.2  3280.2  4134.1  8694.4  13273.9  16742.6  21249.4  22831.6  24195.4  26440.3  30611.3 34723.3               u
RATIOS :-
Operating ratio (X)                         63.4    68.9    78.5    84.3   134.0   127.5   105.8    78.8    75.8    76.0    65.8    61.7
Rate of return (%)                           5.8      4.4      3.0      1.3    -2.0      -1.6    -0.4       2.0      2.5      2.9      5.1      6.2
====za=;            ==- #                                        == ===Z====  ==== #*=======================    ==      -== =-=====



Status B.C. Version                     01/31/92               NEPAL ELECaC1ITY AUTHCRITY
01:tO PH              ............... - .
SOURCE & APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(Rs millions)
Fiscal year ending 15 July                  1986     1987      198S     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994     1995      1996     1997
I----- audited ------3  (pre-audl  1 est.]  I est.1    I------------------- fe7ecest ------------       I
S0UWCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Op.inc.after Tax 6 Prior Yrs0adj.         141.0    133.1    120.2   137.6  -267.1   -265.5    -82.2   456.6   614.3   767.6  1557.8  2136.1
Depreciation                               80.1    114.8   134.7   148.0   555.1    778.5   891.8   946.7  1053.1   1170.1   1405.9  1534.0
Reduction of Def. Charges                   0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    12.0    53.0    18.8    20.7    22.8    25.1
Total internal cash generatfon             221.0   247.9   254.9   285.6   288.0   513.0    821.6  1456.4   1686.2  1958.5  2986.4  3695.2
Additional NEA Funds                         2.3      0.0      0.0       0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Consumer Contributions                       7.7      7.4     20.1       9.8     11.9    13.1      14.4     15.8    17.4      19.2    21.1      23.2
Long term loans (Foreign)                   89.5    197.2   192.9       0.0       0.0  6811.7  1061.1   1912.9  2334.6  1654.9  5765.4  7853.4
Equity Contr.-Donor (forgn. Comp.)           0.0    722.9   606.7   311.5   421.7  -617.2    265.3   478.2   583.6   413.7  1441.4   1963.3
-HMG (Local Comp.)             35.7    515.7   351.6    50.5   1219.0   785.5   490.1    435.6    512.7   524.4   717.3   791.9
Equity Contr.-Donor (Local Comp.)            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0    77.1       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Spi. Loan - U.Taid Debt                      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    48.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Spl. Loan - arsyangdi Debt Relief            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0   502.9   500.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Revaluation Surptus                          0.0      0.0      0.0  8419.4   653.5    665.7   981.8   973.9   929.4  1015.9  1082.3  1317.7
;OTAL SOURCES OF FUUDS                     356.2   1691.1   1426.2  9076.9  2642.1   8751.7  4134.1   5272.8  6063.8  5586.6  12013.8  15644.8
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                                                                                                                                           %b
.  .  ..............................                                                                           
Capital investment
Proposed Project                                                                        0.0    653.3   1203.2  1098.1    406.1       11.0      0.0
Other Capital Expenditure (Foreign)        0.0    920.1    799.6   311.5   1346.0  6194.5    803.8  1420.4  2028.0  1727.9  7197.7  9816.7
Other Capital expenditure (Local)          0.0   407.7   481.8   200.9   458.0   965.9   526.3   395.7   524.5   650.6  1370.3  1577.4
Interest During Construction               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    86.0   189.6   211.5   349.8   429.8   654.3   985.5
Total capitai investment                 191.2  1327.8  1281.4   512.4  1804.0  7246.4  2172.9  3230.8  4000.3  3214.5  9233.3  12379.6
Asset Revaluation                            0.0      0.0      0.0  8419.4   653.5    665.7   981.8   973.9   929.4   1015.9  1082.3  1317.7
investment in Govt. Bonds                    0.0      0.0      1.5      0.0      4.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
increase in Deferred Charges                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    48.0   502.9   500.0         0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Debt Service:
Interest                                 103.2    120.8    125.8    137.7    133.6    125.1    153.4    874.9    887.7   1026.2   1147.8   1454.3
Principal repaxiuents                     35.0    81.7    30.0    55.9    14.1         68.2     77.6   173.6   166.4   197.3   380.2   331.4
---      ....     ----     .....                               ----     ----     ---      ....     . .. . 
Total debt service                       138.2   202.4   155.8   193.6   147.7   193.3   231.0  1048.4  1054.1   1223.6  1528.0  1785.7
Changes in working capital:
Cash increase                              4.9    20.5   -22.9    19.0    64.9   -64.9    24.4           15.8    25.7    66.0         8.0    23.1
Other than Cash increase                  22.0   140.4    10.4   -67.5   -80.0   208.3   224.0            3.9    54.3    66.5    162.3   138.7
Net change                                26.8   160.9   -12.6   -48.5    -15.1    143.4   248.5         19.2    80.0   132.5    170.3    161.8
TOTAL APrLICATIONS OF FUNDS                356.2  1691.1  1426.2  9076.9  2642.1   8751.7  4134.1   5272.8  6063.8  5586.6  12013.8  15644.8
====     ====     ====     ====     ====     ====     ====     ====     ====     ====     ====     =_==          pC
Times Debt Service Coveruge                  1.6      1.2      1.6      1.5      1.9      2.7      3.6      1.4      1.6      1.6      2.0       2.1        .9.
-------------
Note: Loans that NEA had received during FYs 89 & 90 were Inadvertently excluded from NEA's accounts.  These have been adjusted with total Loan
receipts dwring FY 91. A proportionate reduction of equity has been proposed to allow for such an adjustment.



Status B.C. Version                 01/31/92             NEPAL ELEL.aiCITY AUTHORITY
01:OO PH                    _.-._.
ALASM SNEET
(Rs miltion)
As of July 15                           1986    1987    1988    1969    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    199?
t----- audited ------1 Cpre-audO  I est.]  I est.)   C--  ---------- forecast ---------------I
ASSETS
Fixe.assets
Gross fixed assets                  3002.0  4363.5  4973.5 17222.4 18502.3 25949.1 29725.6 31557.1 35102.5 39004.6 46862.4 51134.5
Less: depreciation                   338.0   467.0   601.7  4205.4  4971.5  5994.6  7181.3  8438.3  9830.5  11395.9 13248.5 15301.8
Net fixed assets                    2664.0  3896.5  4371.8 13017.0 13530.7 19954.5 22544.3 23118.8 25271.9 27608.7 33613.9 35832.6
work In progvess                      85.5    51.8   723.2   859.0  2247.7  2957.6  2630.7  5314.1  7037.6  7761.2 10665.6 20610.1
Total Net Fixed Assets                2749.5  3948.3  5095.0 13876.0 15778.4 22912.1 25175.0 2L432.9 32309.5 35369.9 44279.5 56442.7
Deferred Charges                         0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    48.0   550.9  1038.9   985.8   967.1   946.4   923.6   898.4
Current assets
Cash                                  59.1    7'?.6    56.6    75.7   140.6    75.7   100.1   115.9   141.6   207.6   215.6   238.7
inventories                           83.2   113.2   141.1   198.2   238.1   222.3   278.4   306.4   333.3   370.5   429.3   490.0
Accounts receivable                  120.5   165.0   239.9   285.5   356.6   274.8   348.7   530.3   625.6   791.8  1128.2  1384.4
Advances recoverable                  77.0    67.9    63.6    74.1    82.9    91.2   100.3   110.4   121.4   133.5   146.9   161.6
~~~~~~~~~~~...._ .. .. .._..    ......    ....    ----    ....    ...  ... .    ....    .... .. ....
Total current assets                 339.8   425.7   501.3   633.6   818.2   663.9   827.5  1063.0  1221.9  1503.5  1920.0  2274.6
Investments in Govt. Bonds               2.7     2.7     4.2     4.1      88.1      .1    8.1      8.1     8.1     8.1     8.1     8.1
TOTAL ASSETS                          3092.0  4376.7  5600.s 14513.7 16652.7 24134.9 27049.4 30489.9 34506.6 37827.9 47131.2 59623.9             0
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
EQUITY
MIMO-s Cap.Cantr.& Forn. Grants       1424.2  2656.9  3615.2  3977.2  5617.9  5863.3  6618.6  7532.4  8628.7  9566.9 11725.5  14480.8
Cap.Rqs.(Cons.Cantr.& Cap. Gains)        7.7    15.1    35.2    45.0    56.9    70.0    84.4   100.2   117.6   136.8   157.9   181.1
Retained earnings                       37.8    41.7    36.1    36.0  -364.7  -755.3  -990.9 -1409.1  -1682.6 -1941.2 -1531.2  -849.4
Revaluation Surplus                      0.0     0.0      0.0  8416.6  9070.1  9735.8 10717.6 11691.5 12620.8  13636.8 14719.0 16036.7
---     ....    -  -    '_       --      ....    .....    ---     ----    ....    -  -    ....
TOTAL EQUITY                          1469.7  2713.8  3686.5 12474.9 14380.2 14913.8  16429.7 17915.0  19684.6 21399.3 25071.2 29849.1
LIABILITIES
, ..  ....
Long term debt                        1263.3  1378.8  1541.7  1485.9  15'9.8  8766.1  10249.5 11985.9 14157.1  15614.6 20999.8 28521.8
Current li3bilities
Accotmts payable                     287.0   214.1   236.8   373.9   575.0   420.0   319.1   503.7   553.8   655.6   812.7   961.2
Niscellaneou deposits                 19.3    15.2    21.4    24.4    31.1    24.4    39.9    61.4    72.4    92.0   131.8   162.0
Royalty and surchage                  22.2     3.1      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Purchase of energy                    28.1    29.6    78.1   126.3   130.4    10.7    11.2    20.9    38.7    66.4   115.7   129.8
Accrued Incrae tax liability           2.4    22.1    35.9    28.4    16.2      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Total current liabilities            359.0   284.1   372.2   553.0   752.7   455.1   370.2   586.0   664.8   814.0  1060.2  1253.0              4s
TOTAL LIABILITIES                     1622.3  1662.9  1913.9  2038.8  2272.5  9221.2  10619.7 12574.9 14821.9 16428.6 22060.0 29774.8            .
== QZ==                              = =   =_=  "=Q          =-==    Q:Z 1=== === 1=C _=
TOTAL EQUITY AID LIABILITIES          3092.0  4376.7  5600.5 14513.7 16652.7 24134.9 27049.4 30489.9 34506.6 37827.9 47131.2 59623.9
_ = ==1 =    QQ                                              3:===  =: = _    r3  -== XS==
Debt as a X of Debt + Equity              4       34       29      11      10      37       38      40      42      42      46       49



StbLus B.C. Version                       01/31/92            NEPAL ELECTRIL..Y AUTHORITY
01:00 PH            -------------___.__-_-___
KEY FINANCI'L INDICATORS
1986     1987      1988     1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996      1997
-   audited--     pre-audl E est.] I est.]   -                                forecast-                    J
Rate of Return (on rev.assets from FY 90       5.8      4.4       3.0       1.3     -2.0     -1.6      -0.4      2.0       2.5      2.9       5.1      6.2
Contr. to Ccnstr. - Ann.(Local)                                  22.9     71.4      50.8     11.8      45.0     50.0      55.0     60.0     65.0      70.0
Contr. to Constr. - 3 Yr. Avg. (X)             7.1     -8.2      10.6     12.0       7.3      3.3       9.0     13.4      17.1     12.5      15.9     16.1
Operating ratio CX)                           63.4     A8.9      78.5     84.3    134.0    127.5    105.8       78.^      75.8     76.0     65.8      61.7
Debt as a X of Debt + Equity                    46       34        29        11       10       37        38       40        42       42        46       49
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                    1.6       1.2      1.6       1.5      1.9      2.7       3.6      1.4       1.6      1.6       2.0      2.1
Curr-nt ratio                                  0.9      .1.5      1.3      1.1       1.1      1.5       2.2      1.8       1.8      1.8       1.8      1.8
Accounts Payables ( t of months)              10.3      4.0       3.9      6.9       9.6      3.5       3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0
Accoumts Receivable (# of months)              3.8      4.4       5.2      5.0       5.6      3.5       3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0
---wGG===G2G_  ---    ----=_G==GGG2==3G=======GG=G=====-G_____=---=--GG=e=I
O
0'



- 102 -
OWiR SECTOR UPPICIENCY PROM=CT
Hist2rLgaj GroUh in P2ak Demand, Eneray Generation and Sales. 1976 - 199l
1/      YEARLY GROWTH RATES
FISCAL YEARS       1976  ;984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  76/84 84/91 76/91
NIIER OF CONSUMERS
Residential      '000  76.7 139.4 162.0 175.9 208.9 230.2 251.8 274.9 301.4 *  7.8  11.6X  9.6X
Total         '000  78.3 143.8 166.8 183.6 217.7 241.5 264.8 290.0 318.5 *  7.9X 12.0K  9.8X
SALES 2/
Residential       GWh 61.8 129.6 154.9 140.6 162.3 185.7 193.3 230.5 260.4   9.7K 10.5K 10.1K
Inrustry       GWh 32.1  88.7 100 1 410.4 148.5 161.6 175.3 178.4 203.6  13.5K 12.6K 13.1X
Coam. & kCo.       GWh  9.2  19.5  21.2  5O.6  49.4  77.8  78.8  80.8  81.9   9.9X 22.8% 15.7%
Irr, Tranhp.& Wat.Sup  GWh                    13.0  16.9  17.1  25.3  25.1  30.3
Ithers         CUh  4.2  8.7  11.6  5.2  5.1   6.9   5.9   8.8   8.0    9.6K -1.1K  4.5K
,...... .....    ....... .....    ....... .....    ....... .....    .......... .......................
Sales to Nepal     GWh 107.3 248.5 287.8 320.0 382.1 449.1 478.5 523.5 584.2   11.0% 13.1% 12.0X
Exports to India   GWh   5.9  10.3  10.6  21.5  20.5  16.1  17.6  23.3  75.9   7.1K 33.0K 18.5K
Total Sales       GWh 113.2 256.8 298.4 341.4 402.6 465.1 496.1 546.8 660.0  10.8t  14.4K 12.5K
NEA Conhumption     GIh         4.6  3.1   7.0  10.9  7.4   8.7  10.6  12.0           14.7%
Lokes         GWh 39.8 107.3 102.4 139.7 153.2 151.4 167.5 209.8 214.1  13.2K 10.4K 11.9K
Loss ratio        K   26.0X 29.1K 25.4K 28.6K 27.0K 24.3K 24.9% 27.3K 24.0X
SUPPLY
Hydro          GUh 128.8 3'i2.9 333.6 427.0 533.0 557.6 545.4 707.0        11.7K 14.6K 12.9K 3/
Thermal        GIA   2.0   2.7  3.7  3.0   1.1   1.1  11.2   1.0             3.9X-15.6X -4.9X 3/
Generation       GWh 130.8 315.6 337.3 430.0 534.1 558.7 556.5 707.9  0.0  11.6K t4.4K 12.8K 3/
Imports from Ind0i  GWh 22.2  53.1  66.6  58.2  32.6  65.2 115.8  60.2           11.5K  2.1K  7.4K 3/
Total Supply    GCh 153.0 368.7 403.9 488.1 566.7 623.9 672.4 768.1 890.6  11.6K 13.4K 12.5K
PEAK DEMAND
System Peak       MW  31.9  76.0  79.7 110.0 126.0 141.0 150.0 176.0 204.0  11.5K 15.1K 13.2K
Internal Peak     NW   31.4  75.0  78.5 109.0 124.7 139.0 147.5 166.6 192.0  11.5K 14.4K 12.8K
Export weak       NW   0.5   1.0   1.2   1.0   1.3  2.0   2.5   9.4  12.0   9.1K 35.5K 20.7X
internal Load Factor  K  53.5K 54.5K 57.2X 48.9X 50.0K 49.9X 50.7X 51.0K 48.4K
CONSUMPTION PATTERN
Residential        K     58K   53K   54K  44K   42K  41K   40K   44%   45K
Industry        K     30X   36K   35X  34K   39X   36K   37X  34K   35K
Com. & N-Com.       K      9X   8X   7K  16K   13K   17K   16K   15K   14K
Irr, Transp.& Wat.Sup  K                        4K   4K    4K   5K    5K    5K
Others          K      4K   4K   4K    2K   1K   2K    1K   2X    'K
Sales to Nepal      K    lOOK  100K  100  100X 100  100lK  100       X lOOK  100X
Exports to India    K       6K   4K   4K   7X   5%    4K   4K    4K   13K
Total Sales        K    106K  104K  104K  107X  105K  104K  104K  104X  113K
NEA Consumption      K            2K   1K   2X   3K   2K   2K   2X    2K
Losses         X      37K   44K  36K   44K   40K  34K   35K   40K   37K
Generation        X    122X  128X  117X  134K  140K  124X  116K  135K
Imports from India         21K   22  23K   18X   9X   15K  24K   11K
Total Supply            143K  150K  140K  153K  148K  139X  141K  147K  152%
1/    Pattern and growth of energy was affected by the Trade and Tranmit dispute between Nepal and India,
which began In March 1989.
2/     NEA*s tariff classification changed in April 1983; since then the commurcial sector consists if: ')
starred hotels; iI) schools, hospitals, offices, shops, etc . . ., that previously were under
residential category; while irrigation, water supply and transportation, previously covered under the
commercial category, are now reported separately.
3/     Yearly growth rates for the period up to 1990 only.
*      Estifates for FY 1991.
Sources: NRA and IDA estima*eu.



x X p a L
POER 8SCTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
NUMBER OF CONSUMERS CATEGORYWISE
78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  8/89  89/90  90/91
C.,
Residential     96,418 104,840 111,197 119,435 131,651 139,418 162,030 175,860 208,870 230,178 251,758 274,921 301,394
Industry         2,210  2,570  2,850  3,113  3,504  3,921  4.479  4,575  5,464  6,181  6,769  7,482  8,379
Comercial           76     77     84      92     97    469    320    527    315    641  1,678  1,749  2,096
Non-Cowaercial                                                      1,881   1,768  2,403  3,477  4,506  5,181
Transport                                                               8      8      8       9      9      9
Irrigation                                                            278    283    311    343    382    412                       o
Water Supply                                                            0     68      77    105    112    120
Temptes                                                                 0      0      59    152    205    221
Street Lightirn                                                       318    675  1,474    385    517    579
Temporary Suppty                                                      113    275    145    104    123    126
Bulk Su4ply 1/                                                          3      4       2      2      2      2
TOTAL           98,704 107,487 114,131 122,640 135,252 143,808 166,829 183,563 217,730 241,479 264,782 290,008 318,521
8.01   8.9X   6.2X   7.5%  10.3X   6.3X  16.01  10.01  18.61  10.91   9.71   9.51   9.81
Residential     96,418 104,840 111,197 119,435 131,651 139,418 162,030 175,860 208,870 230,178 251,758 274,921 301,394
Non-Residential   2,286  2,647  2,934  3,205  3,601  4,390  4,799  7,703  8,860  11.301  13,024 15,087 17,127
(*)  Estiates.
1/   Irport/Export gates.



POWU BECTOR EPPICIENCY PROJECT
DETAILED LOAD FORECAST
FISCAL YEARS       1981. 1985  1966  1987  1968  1989  1990  1991  11992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001 184/91 91101
SALES
Resfdmntiat    GWh   130   155   141   162   186   193   230   265 1302   322   349   376   411   439   469   500   540   590   10.71  8.31
Indastry    GIdh   89   100   110   148   162   175   178   2041  239   269   293   319   349   386   428   473   517   561  112.6110.71
Camn. &N-Com.   UAM   19    21    51    49    78    79    81    821  104   112   123   134   148   162   178   19S   212   230122.81 10.91
Ir.,Tr.& Wat.Sup 1Ml                 13    17    !7    25    25    30 131    32    32    32    33    34    35    36    38    40 12.81
Others      (ad     9    12      5     5     7      6     9        110    10    12    13    13    14    14    16    17    191-1.11 9.01
I - -        - -   - -   - -   - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - -   - -   - -   - -   - -    - -
Nepat Sates    GIlh  247   288   320   382   449   479   524   589 1686   745   809   874   954  1035  1124  1220  1324  1440  113.21  9.41
Exports      GIlh   10    11    21    20    16    18    23    76135    37    40    43    46    49    52    56    60    64  33.01 -1.71
I - -        - -   - -   - -   - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - -   - -   - -   - -    - -   - -
Totat SaLes   GIlh  257   298   341   403   465   496   547   664 1721   782   849   917  1000  1084  1176  1276  1384  1504 114.51  8.51
NU  Consumption GWh      5      3     7    11     7      9    11    12 113    13    14   15    15    16    17    18    19    20114.71 5.01
Losses      GIlh  107   102   140   153   151   168   209   222 1  226   232   238   243   256   269   284   299   324   353111.01  4.71
Loss ratio     1   29.11 25.41 28.61 27.01 24.31 24.91 27.2X 24.6%11 25.01 24.01 23.01 22.11 21.51 21.01 20.51 20.01 20M0  20.01-
Export Losses   GWhl                                          1     4 1    2     2      2     2     2     2     3     3      3     3 1 
Exp.Loss Ratio   1                                          5.01  5.011  5.01  5.01  5.01  5.01  5.01  5.01  5.01  5.01  5.01  5.011,
Required Suqppty  GIlh  369   404   488   567   624   672   767   902 1, 961  1029  1103  1177  1274  1372  1479  1595  1730  1880 113.61  7.61
System Lf      Z   55.41 57.91 50.71 51.31 50.51 51.21 49.81 50.5%11 49.91 51.01 53.01 55.01 56.01 57.11 58.11 59.51 60.01 60.011'
SystemPeak   NW       76    80   110   126   141   150   176   204 I220   230   238   244   260   274   291   306   329   358 115.1Z 5.81
Consu.mers   '000  1I"    167   184   218   241   265   290   319 I351   388   430   478   533   584   640   701   768   841 I12.01 10.21
kWhl/conss.    kWll  1714  1725  1743  1755  1860  1807  1805  1848 11955  1920  1881  1829  1791  17M   1757  1740  1724  1713    1.11 -0.81
SALES STRUCTURE 
Residentfal           531   541   441   421   411   401   441   451'  441   431   431   431   431   421   421   411   411   41%11
Industry            361   351   341   391   361   371   341   3511,  351   361   361   361   371   371   381   391   391   3911#
Corn. a N-Corn.         81    71   161   131   171   161   151   14%11  151   151   151   151   161   161   161   161   161   1611,
Ir.,Tr.& Wat.Sup                      41    41    41    51    51    511'   51    41    41    41    31    31    31    31    31    311
Others              41    41    21    11    21    11    21    111,   11    11    11    11    11    11    11    11    11    1%11
NepaL Sales          1001  1001  1 001  1001   1001001o  1001  10011  1001  1001  1001  1001  1001  1001  1001  1001  1001  0011
Exports              41    41    71    51    41    41    41   13%11   51    51    51    51    51    51    51    51    51    411,
Total SaLes          1041  1041  1071  1051  1041  1041  1041  11311, 1051  1051  1051  1051  1051  1051  1051  1051  1051  10411,
NEA Consumption           21    11    21    31    21    21    21    2%11   21    21    21    21    21    21    21    11    11   I111
Losses             441   361   441   401   341   351   401   38%11  331   311   291   281   271   261   251   241   251   251,
Export Losses                                                 01    111,   01    ox    01    01    01    01    01    ox    01    ox-
- -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - i- -   - -   - -   - -   - -   - -   - -   - -   - -   - - 
Required Suppty         1501  1401  1531  1481  1391  1411  1471  15311  1401  1381  1361  1351  1341  1331  1321  1311  1311  13111



- 105 -
ANNEX 5. 4
N E P AL
POWER SECTOR EF1FICIENCY PROJECT
Nepal  Integronnete!d  System  - Generation  Capacity  and  Energy  Forecast  (GWh)
EXPORT: 50  MW   1/
Fiscal Years                         1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Z00o  2001  2002
A. MCISTING STATIONS 2/
HYDRO
Small Plants  3/              337   337   337   337   199   270   337   337   337   337   337   337
Out of which Andi Khola        0    40    42    43    44    44    44    44    44    44    44    44
Sunkosi                        69    69    69    69    69    69    69    69    69    69    69    69
KulekhanS  1&2                182   182   182   182   182   182   182   182   182   182   182   182
Marsyangdi                    460   460   460   460   460   460   460   460   460   460   460   460
THERMAL
Hetauda & Other Diesels         1      0     0      0     0      0      0     0      0     0      0     0
Purchases                      33      9    27    57    99   168   175   249   293   300   300   100
Multifuels 1           1992     0      0      0    12   122      8      4    14    28    48    78    30
B. ONGOING / PLANNED
HYDRO
Jhimruk                1995                              47    78    78    78    78    78    78    78
T/D Upgrading          1995                                     41    64    64    64    64    64    64
Arun III phase 1       2002                                                                          1238
THERMAL
Hetauda Rehab.    4/ 1994                           0     0      0      0     0      0     0      0
Multifuels 2           1997                                             4    14    28    48    78    30
Multifuels 3           1998                                                  14    28    48    78    30
Multifuels 4           1999                                                         28    48    78    30
Multifuels 5           2000                                                               48    78    30
C. NET CAPACITY AVAILABLE
HYDRO                      GWh   1048  1048  1048  1048   956  1099  1189  1189  1189  1189  1189  2427
THUMAL                     GWh      34     9    27    69   221   176   183   290   406   542   691   250
TOTAL                      GWh   1081  1057  1075  1116  1178  1275  1372  1479  1596  1731  1880  2677
D. REQUIRED ENERGY  5/                902   961  1029  1103  1177  1274  1372  1479  1595  1730  1880  2334
For Nepal             GWh    823   924   990  1061  1132  1226  1321  1424  1536  1667  1813  2035
For Exports           GWh      80    37    39    42    45    48    51    54    59    63    67   299
E. UNSERVED ENGY              GWh       0      0     0      0     3      0     0      0     0      0     0      0
F. HYDRO SURPLU8 6/           GWh    179    96    46    13        4      1     0      0     1      1     0   343
7/
1/     Exports are governed by the existing 50 MWe power exchange agreemont between Nepal and India.
Exports are limited to the current committed level of 30 GWh a year, increasing by 101 yearly. After
the commissioning of Arun III phase 1, the exports will be increased by 50 MWe, Lf = 1.
2/     Ener8y indicated reflects average hydrological conditions.
3/     Includes small hydros, Trisuli - Devighat, Gandak and Andhi Khola plants.
4/     Assume an extension of the active life period by six years.
5/     Actual supply in 1990, provisional for 1991, forecast for the other years.
6/     Due to non-simultaneity between demand and supply, a hydro surplus will exist, while thermal
generation will also be required.
7/     Hydro supply may drop by up to 138 GWh more if the T/D upgrading requires more time than planned.



- 106 -
N 9 P A L
POWER SECTOR EFICIENCY PROJEGX
Nenal Interconnected System - Generation Canacity and Maximum Demand Forecast. (M4)
EXPORT: 50 MW  1/
Fiscal Years                1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002
A. EXISTING STATIONS 2/
YDRO
Small Plants  3/            39.1  39.1  39.1  39.1  15.0  39.1  39.1  39.1  39.1  39.1  39.1  39.1
Sunkosi                      8.6   8.6   8.6   8.6   8.6   8.6   8.6   8.6   8.6   8.6   8.6   8.6
Kulekhani 1&2               92.0  92.0  92.0  92.0  92.0  92.0  92.0  92.0  92.0  92.0  92.0  92.0
Marsyangdi                  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0
THEMAL
Hetauda & Other Dicsels      7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3
Purchases                   15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0
Multifuels 1          1992        20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3  40.3  20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3
B. CUG)ING / PLANNED
HYDRO
Jhimruk               1995                            9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6
T/D Upgrading        1995                                   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0
Arun III phase 1     2C02                                                                      268.0
TUEMAL
Hetauda Rehab.    4/ 1994                       6.0   6.0  13.3  13.3  13.3  13.3  13.3  13.3
Multifuels 2          1997                                       20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3
Multifuels a          1998                                              20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3
Multifuels 4          1999                                                    20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3
Multifuels 5          2000                                                          20.3  20.3  20.3
C. NET CAPACITY AVAILABLE
HYDRO                      MW  208.7 208.7 208.7 208.7 194.2 226.3 226.3 226.3 226.3 226.3 226.3 494.3
THERMAL                    NA   22.3  42.6  42.6  48.6  48.6  48.6  68.9  89.2 109.5 129.8 129.8 116.5
____ ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
TOTAL                      MW  231.0 251.3 251.3 257.3 242.8 274.9 295.2 325.5 335.8 356.1 356.1 610.8
D. PEAK DEMND  5/             MW    204   220   230   238   244   260   274   291   306   329   358   444
Required energy      GWh    902   961  1029  1103  1177  1274  1372  1479  1595  1730  1880  2334
Load factor  6/       2   50.52 49.92 51.12 52.92 5'.11 55.92 57.22 58.02 59.52 60.02 59.92 60.02
E. SURPLUS / (DEFICIT)        MW   27.0  31.3  21.3  19.3  (1.2) 14.9  21.2  24.5  29.8  27.1  (1.9)166.7
7/
1/     Exports are governed by the existing 50 MWe power exchange agreement between Nepal and India.
Exports are limited to the current committed level of 30 GWh a year. increasing by 102 yearly. After
the  comissioning of the phase 1 of Arun III, the exports will be increased by 50 MWe.
2/     Indicated capacity includes derating.
3/     Includes small hydros, Trisuli - Devighat, Gandak and Andhi Khola plants.
4/     Assume an extension of the active life period by six years.
5/     Actual peak demand in 1990, provisional for 1991, forecast for the other years.
S/     Up to FY 1989, the load factor has always bean greater than 0.5.
7/     Surplus may drop by some 32.1 MW if the T/D upgrading is delayed beyond December 1995.



- 107 -
ANNEX 5.6
Page 1 of 3
N E P A L
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PROCEDURES FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Methodology
1.          The Project is essentially composed of rehabilitation, upgrading
and extension of existing facilities, and while it will play a crucial role in
the optimal development of the power sector, a large part of its benefits
cannot be separated from those deriving from the remainder of NEA's investment
program. Moreover, parts of the Project deal with objectives such as training
and administrative improvements which provide numerous benefits difficult to
quantify.
2.          Under these circumstances, and considering that the Project is
part of NEA's Least Cost Expansion Program, it is appropriate to carry out the
cost benefit analysis on NEA's entire investment program to ensure that the
entire program is justified. For this reason, the methodology of the
"tirneslice" is a proper way in determining the Economic Internal Rate of
Return (EIRR) of the Project.
3.          The methodology is applied on NEA's investment program for the
period 1991/92 - 2001/2002, which includes the first stage of the Arun-III
(Access Road/Hydroelectric) Project (AHP) generation project.
B. Assumptions for Economic Analysis
Costs
4.          The costs considered in the analysis are the investment costs and
operation and maintenance costs (O&M), including the cost of the access road
to the AHP site and all civil works lump sum costs relevant to the two phases
of the AHP (i.e. all AHP civil work are incurred in the first stage). Local
costs are expressed in their equivalent Border prices by applying the Standard
Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.90.
5.          Generation costs are determined by simulating the whole system
before and after the Project, month by month up to FY2020, thus defining the
fuel costs and generation relevant to the time-slice analysis by simple
difference between each case. For the fuel cost estimation, the fuel prices
used are the border prices for FO, DO and HSDO, these prices being distorted
by India from where these fuels are imported. They result in the following
costs:



- 108 -
ANNEX 5.6
Page 2 of 3
FO    $182.70/t at India border, + Rs 2550/t for transport and handling,
DO    $283.10/t at India border, + Rs 2550/t for transport and handling,
HSDO  $282.40/t at India border, + Rs 2550/t for transport and handling.
SKO   $270.90/t at India border, + Rs 2550/t for transport and handling,
Quantified Benefits
6.          The benefits comprise those derived from: (i) from the sales of
energy in Nepal, valued using the Willingness to Pay (WtP) with a SCF of 0.90;
and (ii) the export of energy to India valued on the basis of Rs 1.856/kWh
with a SCF of 1.00.
7.          The WtP has been estimated on the basis of the energy consumption
patterns before and after electrification. While the actual electricity
tariff in the private sector for some schemes is in excess of Rs 15/kWh, for
very low levels of consumption, a conservative estimation of the WtP has been
conducted for residential, commercial and non-commercial, and industrial con-
sumption. The results of this analysis are:
Tariff         Consumption Level        Willingness to Pay
Category         for the Timeslice       for the Timeslice
kWh/y                     Rs/kWh
Residential           1,000                        14.5
Commercial &
N-Commercial          2,000                        16.0
Industry              7,500                        15.1
Irr., TR, WS          7,500                        15.55
Others                2,000                        16.0
For the category "Irrigation, Transport and Water Supply", the WtP
used is the average of commercial and industrial categories WtP. The
consumption level for the industry category have been assumed; while in the
case of the "others" category, consumption has been assumed to reach 2,000 kWh
a year, with the WtP equal to that used for commercial's category. The
overall weighted average of WtP for all sectors is estimated to be
NRs. 13.48/kWh.
Non Quantified Benefits
8.          While all costs have been considered, numerous benefits have not
been included, such as: (i) loss reduction; (ii) the use of the AHP 192 km
access road by the inhabitants and tourists to the Arun valley; (iii) those
deriving from the training facilities and other NEA institutional activities;
and (iv) or those from the improved quality and reliability of electricity
supply.   Therefore, the resulting EIRRs will be underestimated.  Moreover,
1/ Since power exports are paid for in Indian rupees, a SCF of 1.0 is used in
their valuation.



- 109 -
ANNEX 5.6
Page 3 of 3
the cost considered for the AHP first stage includes numerous investments
which will deliver their benefits only at the time of the commissioning of the
second phase of the Project. This results in an apparent cost per kW
installed of $2,200 for the phase one and only $1,000 for the phase two.
C. Tariff Adequacy
9.          A measure of the adequacy of the tariff level can be obtained by
estimating the EIRR using the current tariff.  The closer the resulting EIRR
is to the opportunity cost of capital, the closer the tariff is to the LRMC of
supply. Discrepancies between the tariff and the LRMC of supply may be caused
by anomalies in either the tariff levels or structure or combinations of both.
The tariff values used for this analysis are as follows:
Tariff           Current
Category           Tariff
Rs/kWh
Residential         2.118
Commercial &
N-Commercial        3.310
Industry            2.1625
Irrigation,
Transport &
Water Supply        1.2875
Other               1.90



- 1'0 -
ANNEX 5.7
Page 1 of 4
N E P A L
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
EVALUATION OF THE INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN OF NEA'S INVESTMENT
PROGRAM (1991/92 TO 2001/2002)
Economic Internal Rate of Return
I.          A minimum measure of the EIRR was estimated using the time-slice
methodology applied to NEA's investment program (1991/92 to 2001/2002) based
on the conservatively estimated WtP described above, assuming a period of
analysis of only 30 years, with salvage values. The return under such
conditions reached 18.1Z, which is eminently satisfactory considering the
numerous investments included in the timeslice analysis related to the second
phase of the AHP which is expected to be commissioned in 2006. Details are
presented in Table 5.1 while Table 5.2 and Figure 5.1 present the sensitivity
analysis.
Tariff Adequacy
II.         Using of the current tariff to value the benefits ensuing from the
sales increase, the Project yields a return of 2.4Z, thus showing the
inadequacy of the current tariff in level and structure: the average level
(2.256 Rs/kWh) is currently at only 35 percent of the LRMC.
Sensitivity Analysis
III.        Sensitivity analysis shows that, for the EIRR to drop down to the
assumed opportunity cost of capital of 10X, it requires an increase by more
than 125Z of the Project cost, that is to say the investment, recurrent
operation and maintenance costs and fuel costs, or a decrease of the value of
the WtP by more than 60Z.



TVS-SL!C3 ANALTYIS
Table 5.1 - Economic Internal Rate of Return
Invest. 0 & N   Fuel Import   Total    Fuel Import Benefits   New   Total Balance  Tariff Balarce Sales to
Fiscal   Cost  Cost   Cost  Cost    Cost  Saving Saving fronm tP Exports Benefits   (VtP)       (Tariff)   NEPAL
Year     U.S   N.S    U.S   N.S      N.S     N.S   N.S     U.S     U.S     U.S     N.S    U.S       N.S    GUh
1992  37.34  0.00   0.00  0.00   37.34    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  -37.34    0.00  -37.34       0.0
1993  67.64  0.97   0.00  0.00   68.62    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  -68.62    0.00  -68.62       0.0
1994  84.59  2.33   0.00  0.00   86.91    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  -86.91    0.00  -86.91       0.0
1995  61.69  3.81   4.26  0.46   70.22   -0.00  0.00   -0.92    0.00   -0.92  -71.14   -0.15  -70.38    -2.9
1996 140.61  5.85   0.00  2.35  148.80    3.03  0.00   -0.06    0.43    3.40 -145.40   -0.01  -148.38    -0.2
1997 164.36  9.02   0.00  2.69  176.07    5.21  0.00   -0.09    1.92    7.03 -169.04   -0.02 -174.17    -0.3
1998 138.12 14.01   0.00  6.33  158.46    4.99  0.00   17.00    2.26   24.25 -134.21    2.85 -153.35    53.8
1999 148.10 19.79   0.00  8.53  176.42    2.06  0.00   45.41    2.43   49.91  -126.51    7.61  -166.37   143.8
2000 153.53 24.58   3.78  8.85  190.74    0.34  0.00   78.52    2.60   81.47 -109.28   13.16 -174.98   248.7
2001  72.95 28.01  10.50  8.85  120.31    0.63  0.00  114.85    2.78  118.27   -2.05   19.25  -96.28   363.8
2002   0.00 30.56   0.00  0.00   30.56    2.14  0.98  153.50   15.35  171.97  141.41   25.72   10.51   486.3
2003   0.00 31.30   0.00  0.00   31.30    8.72  5.90  202.05   21.09  237.76  206.45   33.85   23.6    640.1
2004   0.00 31.30   0.00  0.00   31.30    9.51  5.90  247.47   20.05  282.93  251.62   41.45   30.20   784.0
2005   0.00 31.30   0.00  0.00   31.30   10.4   5.17  298.49   18.27  332.39  301.09   49.99   36.96   945.7
2006   0.00 31.30   0.00  0.00   31.30   11.44  3.63  349.32   16.85  381.25  349.94   58.50   44.04  1106.7
2007   0.00 31.30   0.00  0.00   31.30   11.87  1.86  404.42   14.57  432.72  401.42   67.71   50.96  1281.3
2008   0.00 31.30   0.00  0.75   32.06   11.84  0.00  463.53   10.75  486.11  454.05   77.60   56.28  1468.5
2009   0.00 18.10   0.00  2.92   21.02   10.76  0.00  528.12    6.66  545.54  524.52   88.40   74.04  1673.2
2010   0.00 18.10   4.37  6.00   28.47   13.09  0.00  599.29    4.42  616.79  588.32  100.29   76.23  18.6
2011   0.00 18.10  11.09  8.85   38.04   16.42  0.00  677.59    2.49  696.50  658.46  113.37   77.83  21U.6
2012   0.00 18.10  23.38  8.85   50.33   20.26  0.00  778.70    0.00  798.96  748.63  130.27   79.94  2466.9
2013   0.00 18.10  27.38  8.85   54.33   24.22  0.00  805.40    0.00  829.62  775.29  134.74   80.40  2551.5
2014   0.00 18.10  28.27  8.85   55.23   28.22  0.00  811.54    0.00  839.75  ;84.53  135.76   80.54  2570.9
2015   0.00 18.10  28.27  8.85   55.23   32.22  0.00  811.54    0.00  843.75  788.52  135.76   80.54  2570.9
2016   0.00 18.10  28.27  8.85   55.23   36.21  0.00  811.54    0.00  847.75  792.52  135.76   80.54  2570.9
2017   0.00 18.10  21.21  8.85   48.16   39.97  0.00  763.98    0.00  803.95  755.79  127.81   79.65  2420.3
2018   0.00 18.10  14.14  8.85   41.10   43.50  0.00  716.16    0.00  759.66  718.57  119.81   78.71  2268.8
2019   0.00 18.10   7.08  8.85   34.03   46.79  0.00  668.61    0.00  715.40  681.37  111.85   77.82  2118.1
2020   0.00 18.10   0.00  8.85   26.95   49.85  0.00  621.00    0.00  670.85  643.89  103.89   76.93  1967.3
2021   0.00 18.10   0.00  8.85   26.95   52.91  0.00  621.00    0.00  673.90  646.95  103.89   76.93  1967.3
2022 -443.35 18.10   0.C0  8.85  -416.40   55.96  0.00  621.00    0.00  676.96 1093.36  103.89  520.29  1967.3
Exchange rate    42.70 *.Rs/S                                                EIRR   18.07X           2.35X
la
Nl'
fa 



CONHIC INTIDNAL RAT3 OF
Table 5.2 - Sensitivity Analysis
A. Net Present values
Invest. 0 & H    Fuel l port   Total      Fuel lport Benefits      New   Total  Batmnce  Tariff Balance Satet to
Discount   Cost  Cost    cost    ost    Cost   Savin  SavinS from WtP Exports Benefits    (UtP)             (Tariff)   II AL
Rate      M.S   U.S    N.$   U.S         N.$      U.I    I.        US      U.       N.$      H.S      N. .S            rAjh
2.01   707   415       137   103    1,362      344    18   7,872        109   8,344    6,982    1,317       65  24,940
4.01   711   304       90    72    1:17?       220    14   5:181         84   5:498   4:321       '867    (226)  16:412
6.0X   680    228      61    52    1.020       144    11   3,477         65   34697   2 676        582    (373) 11,015
8.01   635    175      42    38       890       96      8   2,378        51   2,534    1,644       398    (441)  7,534
10.01   586    136      29    29       781       66      7    1,657       40    1,770      989      277    (463)  5,248
12.01   538    108      21    23       690       47      5    1,174       32    1,258      568      197    (42    ,2
14.OZ   493    87       16      18     614       34      4       "46      25      910      296      142    (447)   2 680
16.01   452    71       12    15       550       25      3      619       20      668      119      104    (425)   1,962
18.01   415     59       9     12      495       19      3      460       17      498        3       77    (401)   1,47
20.01   381     49       7      11     448       15      2      346       14      377     (171)      so    (37?    1.097'
22.01   352     41       6      9      408       12      2      264       II      289     (19)       44     (352     837
24.01   325     35       5      8      373        9      1      204        9      224     (149)      34    (32       646
26.01   301     30       4      7      342        8      1      159        8      176    (166)       27    (308)    505
28.01   280     26       4      6      315        6      1      126        6      139    (176)       21    (288)     398
B. Sensitivity Analysis
Fuiel                                             Exports              Kenn             Nean
Invest        laport             Total          Saes Benefits    Fuetl   Total         WtP  Tariff  Tariff
+ GON          Costs             Cost                 from WtP Savings Benefits  RsIkoi              Rs/It h
2.01        622.7X        2903.81            512.71          -91.51   -88.7X            -83.7X  13.478    -4.91   2.256-
4.01        425.81         2664.6:           367.11          -86.11   -83.41            -78.61  13.478    26.11   2.256
6.01         294.71        2381.31           262.31          -79.51   -77.01            -72.41  13.478    64.21   2.256
8.01         203.1IX       2053.81            184.91         -71.61   -69.11            -64.91  13.478    110.71   2.256
10.01        136.91        1686.51            126.71          -61.91  -59.71             -55.91  13.478   167.11   2.256
12.01         88.01        1287.81             82.31          -50.3X   -48.41            -45.2  13.478    234.91   2.256
14.01         51.01         868.71             48.21          -36.41   -35.01           -32.51  13.478   315.51   2.256
16.01         22.71         440.91             21.61          -20.01   -19.11           -17.71  13.478   410.41   2.256
18.01          0.71          15.31              0.71           -0.81    -0.71   -9.31    -0.71  13.478    521.21   2.257
20.01        -16.61                           -15.91           21.71    20.61   251.41   18.91  13.478   649.41   2.257
22.01        -30.31                           -29.21           47.7X   45.01   521.51    41.21  13.478   796.51   2.257
24.01         -41.31                          -39.9X           77.71    72.9X  799.9X    66.41  13.478   964.11   2.257
26.01         -50.21                          -48.61          112.01   104.41  1086.01    94.61  13.478   1153.71   2.257
28.01        -57.51                           -55.81          151.21   139.81  1379.61   126.11  13.478   1367.01   2.257
C. VARIATION OF EIRR
WtP    50.00% 75.00%   100.00%   125.00%
Export
50.00%    11.40%  15.00%    17.80%    20.13%
75.00%    11.54%  15.12%    17.91%    20.23%
100.00%    11.74%  15.30%    18.07%    20.38%
125.00%    11.99%  15.52%    18.28%    20.57%



:Id:W:::'.:''S'' '.-                                            ' ''.' *Ns.'''/.
:::~~ :: Nram.1ejs 
!t~ '                                                 J Q                 m  
o....,,,.,...    ita.,..n   .
? t S . , .. j,,  s,   ,. ,                                .
to E          .,..,.'      ..'''',,              :'':,/ '                      '      "     ".. :A
"  t3                                  -                     I  
o ~         i       -$4,I                                                :                .       .     ,
., ~      ~          ~          0I



- 114 -
ANNEX 5.8
Page 1 of 4
N E P A L
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
EVALUATION OF THE INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN OF THE UPGRADING OF
THE TRISULI-DEVIGHAT COMPLEX
A. Assumptions for Economic Analysis
Costs
1.          The economic total cost considered for the upgrading of the
Trisuli-Devighat hydro-power complex amounts to $26.22 millions. While no O&M
cost should be considered (the equipmer.t already exists) an incremental cost
of one percent per year has been assumed. These costs have been converted
into their equivalent economic values using the current standard conversion
factor of 0.90 for local costs.
Benefits
2.          T'h.e benefits considered are only those derived from the
incremental output due to the rehabilitation and upgrading of the Trisuli -
Devighat hydro-complex. Currently, the complex delivers an average production
of 186 GWh a year at a peak capacity of 21.4 MW; data that have to be derated
by at least 20Z. On completion of the upgrading, the hydro complex is
expected to deliver 36.9 MW, 267.1 GWh of firm energy and 16.6 GWh as
secondary energ; per year. If the Project were not carried out, we could
assume either that the equivalent generation would be obtained from thermal
equipment, or the demand would not be served (period up to FY2000), or it
would come from another hydro-project (in the period after the commissioning
of Arun III). Hence, all incremental output has, at the margin, at least the
value of the LRMC as derived from the time-slice analysis, although this
analysis includes the Project, and therefore the true LRMC without it would be
greater, due to the higher cost of unserved energy (Rs 14.00/kWh) and/or
thermal generation, which should be considered during the period ap to the
commissioning of Arun III. Thus the benefits valued on the bas.s of the
estimation of the LRMC of generation (net) derived from the time-slice
analysis (Rs 3.355/kWh, with a SCF of 1.00) are under estimated.
Economic Internal Rate of Return
3.          Under the hypotheses explained above, and assuming a useful 1"%0
of 30 years, with no salvage value, the EIRR reached 26.5Z. Sensitivity
analysis shows that the investment costs would require an increase by more
than 200Z for the EIRR to drop to the assumed opportunity cost of capital of
10; or the benefits (either the LRMC or the incremental generation) sh,I:d
decrease by more than 65Z.  Moreover, even if only the firm energy was                      E
considered, the rate of return would still exceed 23 percent.



- 115 -
AMNN1X S. A
Page 2 of 4
TRI8ULl - DMVIGRA! UPORADING
Table 5.3 - Economic Internal Rate of Retur
@nef its   from
Investment   OM   TotaL Increased  Output    Total   Total Batance
L.C.   F.C.   Cost   Cost Firm GUh  2nd GWh enefits salance Firm GWh
M.S    N.S    M.S   M.S       ".S      M.5       .S     M.S      M.S
1990                       0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000   0.000   0.000
1991  0.000  0.000         0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000   0.000   0.000
1992  0.962  5.637         6.706    0.000    0.000    0.000  (6.706) (6.706)
1993  *.365  7.984 0.066  9.567    0.000    0.000    0.000  (9.567) (9.567)
1994  0.941  5.495  0.159  6.700    0.000    0.000    0.000  (6.700) (6.700)
1995  0.179  1.043  0.224  1.466    0.000    0.000    0.000  (1.466) (1.466)
1996  0.000  0.000  0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
1997                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
1998                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
1999                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2000                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2001                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2002                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2003                0.236  0.236    8.7rl    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2004                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2005                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2006                0.236  0.236    8.77.    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2007                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2008                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2009                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2010                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2011                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2012                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2013                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2014                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2015                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2016                0.236  0.236   8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2017                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.100   8.485
2018                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2019                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
2020                0.236  0.236    8.721    1.815   10.536  10.300   8.485
Exchange rat 42.70 N.Rs/$                              EIRR   26.47X
FIRM ENERGY ONLY            23.01X



- 116 -
Page 3 of 4
TRISL!    D3ZGHAT UPGRAIN
Table 5.4 - Sensitivity Analvsis
?. Net Present Values
Investment    O&M   Total Benefits Benefits    Total   Total
Discount   L.C.   P.C.   Cost   Cost Firm GWh  2nd GWh Benefits Balance
Rate     M.$    M.$    K.$    M.$        M.$      M.$        .$     H.$
0.0% 3.447 20.161  6.351 30.342  218.019   45.371  263.390 233.048
5.0% 2.825 16.523  2.829 22.491   91.717   19.087  110.804  88.313
10.0% 2.340 13.690  1.480 17.771   44.683    9.299   53.982  36.211
15.0% 1.958 11.455  0.874 14.504   24.371    5.072   29.443  14.939
20.0% 1.653  9.671  0.562 12.070   14.450    3.007   17.457   5.387
25.0% 1.407  8.231  0.385 10.179    9.110    1.896   11.006   0.827
30.0% 1.206  7.058  0.275  8.673    6.014    1.252    7.265  -1.408
35.0% 1.041  6.093  0.204  7.454    4.114    0.856    4.970  -2.484
40.0% 0.905  5.293  0.155  6.453    2.895    0.602    3.497  -2.956
45.0% 0.790  4.625  0.120  5.624    2.085    0.434    2.519  -3.105
50.0% 0.694  4.063  0.095  4.929    1.5!l    0.319    1.850  -3.080
B.  Sensitivity Analysis
Discount          Inv. + O&M   Benefita         Benefits Benefits
Rate           (Total Cost)  Firm GWh          2nd GWh    Total
0.0%        768.1%                                     -88.5%
5.0%        392.7%         -96.3%                      -79.7%
10.0%        203.8%         -81.0%                      -67.1%
15.0%        103.0%         -61.3%                      -50.7%
20.0%         A4.6%         -37.3%                      -30.9%
25.0%          8.1%          -9.1%             -43.6%    -7.5%
30.0%        -16.2%          23.4%             112.5%    19.4%
35.0%        -33.3%          60.4%             290.2%    50.0%
40.0%        -45.8%         102.1%             490.7%    84.5%
45.0%        -55.2%         148.9%             715.6%   123.3%
50.0%        -62.5%         201.1%             966.5%   166.5%



- 117 -
ANEX 5. 8
Page 4 of 4
ECONOIIC INTERNiL RATE OF 
.    ..   ..,i,.....    ...  :.:   i;--. -.
N'.'^:-^'R:EPAL    : Pwer  -Sector  Effi.cien.cy  Projct:. 
Upgra dng of ITr sul-Dehight
.. ':v;; ! .....      . ''. ......... d.'  ,f .Z'T'sul' '-De '.'.--t
X ,': '0 WD,3- t _i s, .,  ''                                 ", '  0.'..
;% 1"% 1'% 'i)4 t25%   3                 % .  -40
'::~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~f Y':0 h' ;                                  '
Table 5.2   SENSITIVI-t   ANLS S              .



- 118 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Data and Documents in the Project File
1.      NEA/EdF Twinning Arrangement
Document A: Diagnostic Main Findings
Document B: Proposed Priority Areas
Document C: Comprehensive Action Program
Document D: Overall Implementation Plan
Kathmandu, November 1990
2.      EdF.  1990 Update of the Least Cost Generation Expansion Plan
Kathmandu, October 1990
3.      Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte.  Nepal Electricity Authority, [ADB] Fifth
Power Project - Part 3 - Consulting Services. Phase III Organization
Study - Final Report. March 1990.
4.      Asian Development Bank.  Staff Appraisal Report of the Seventh Power
Proiect in Nepal. Manila, November, 1989. Report I LAP:NEP 18082
5.      Butwal Power Company (Hydroconsult).  Jhimruk Hydroelectric and Rural
Electrification Project - Inception Report. Kathmandu, April 1989
6.      Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte (in associated with Kennedy and Donkin and
Lovelock Lewes). Nepal Electricity Authority: Verficiation of Stores
and Fixed Assets - Draft Final Report. February 1990
7.      National Rural Electric Cooperative Association International Ltd.
Ten Year Rural Electrification Study for Nepal - Draft Final Report.
Washington, D.C., August 1990
8.      D. H. Spittal.  Review of Onlending Arrangements between HMG/N and NEA
for all Foreign Lending. Auckland, October 1990.
9.      Canadian International Water and Energy Consultants.  Trisuli-Devighat
Hydropower Upgrading Project - Feasibility Study Report. Kathmandu,
August 1990.
10.     Water and Energy Commission Secretariat.  NEPAL:  Interfuel and Energy
Efficiency Study - Task Description and Background. (Final Draft).
Kathmandu, March 1990.
11.     Asian Development Bank.  NEPAL:  TOR for Study on Equitable and
Efficiency Energy Pricing Polices (DRAFT). Manila, January 1990.



- 119 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 2 of 2
12.     Asian Development Bank.  Appraisal Report for Special Assistance to
Nepal for Oil SupplY Security (DRAFT). Manila, September 1989.
13.     EdF.  Long Run Ma.ginal Cost and Tariff Study.  Kathmandu,
November 1990.
14.     EdF.  Ten Year Transmission and Distribution Master Plan.  Kathmandu,
November 1990.
15.     National Rural Electrification Cooperative Association International
Ltd. NEPAL: Marsyangdi Watershed Rural Electrification Study.
Washington, D.C. June 1990.
16.     NEA Authorized and Existing Manpower at December 31, 1989.
17.     NEA Salaries.
18.     NEA's Training Program.
19.     NEA Interconnected System - Existing Grid Substations (132 kV and
66 kV).
20.     NEA Interconnected System - Existing, Under Construction and Planned
Transmission Lines.
21.     List of Small Power Facilities Operated by NEA.
22.     Detailed Cost Table (COSTAB)
23.     Canadian International Water and Energy Consultants.  Trisuli-Devighat
Hydropower Upgrading Project - Environmental and Socio-Cultural Impact
Study (FINAL Report). Kathmandu, April 1991.
24.     Electricite de France International.  Kathmandu. Valley H.V. Network
Reinforcement - Initial Environmental Examination (Land Acquisition
and Compensation for Overhead Lines. Kathmandu, April 1991



IBRD 2233]
>   )   k  '>                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEPAL 
>              2ta        ?         t                                                                                          POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
3Q*  JR                                                                                                              eROPOS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE. Rs  JsD5R
5'                                                                                             UNDER CONsTROCTKIOs  1Nv40s5I0IE054  51NG 30
.   A6HU>r1A4.. 5                                                                                                                                                              L.5g!arge Hydra Plants
I,I,UU                                                                                                                                                                   malHydro Plants
aaWa, s-ANG                                                                                                                                                                       AL   A  Diesel Pao-r Staions-
505Usd  Esnonoso  I                                                                                                                 i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k   Solar Power Slosimos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~So.
C'                                                        *     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wind P0 Cr Stosi-ss
WST'                              K    AUR<                                                                                                0                                 Posnr Transfe Paints
PA50005SWUR5220 ksV Trasii Lines
*4HAD*-elDH*^ E6.6/ 1 o\ } 1) 0 9 E ix l36 kV Tr-ansmissio Lions
ESIDk W   N' A...                                                                                                                      ------D-.t,  zW.' S T E R N  ,&  <  *    -------  33 kV Tr.n-misson Lines
MID             ,            N j*gEgy TraWsfersR
35so Eport
v i OHANGAOHli_v                      (                                      CHS  AI-.                                                ,                                        Imart  ,  
/,[:-+ ( < P H E R I ' > f t asi, /                           >                       <. t - Rivers
K A A (AR&U-KTUMMO) o/TATOP-ni *                             *.s.#\                                               Znna. Bndarin
~T   M \   g 9)  >    ) k    ~ + V  )W ES/ sW E R F9 flHAMe  5   {   J\                International B-ondaries
_ u < T g.UR \]HIMR K NV TAMGAY"\S /.SYANGINR   A   P                                               E R N                                                                N.. Th-1. 4)  J z=
X KATH^iANDU   VALLEY  BT BAHADUK#GUNJB IOUIIHAWA 1FZ, 9 SULeKHANI1 U KOSX / )G  A NID A K I                      E        U        N        3                     i. m ;,
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c~ --w E4- II (|G
NGLUNG AtAL                r t  lA 12 A H A W _,S S    -(                        WhAIAA  501U .ARr siE nr
A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    a
N \'''\N   "E'AZ3,  I   o    20   4UV^*lSD    BU   ]oD   D   /   I                      -~AL
\.<~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ m  B--ltps                                                                                 TATOPA.LW/1  
a    _    .  >    \  . 1.= =L P O' &onAo e Lm pp M .. a 'h                                                               0 4.         ~  . . /                              A   3 3 5 0
KATHMANDU VALLEY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAC  5
A ~~~~~~~~~~~                              AN
UR                                                                                                                     J A N. A.a  K-PnaN  Ue R.,.a,.,sn,asn.an,
Disssks Savajosses ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ '                                                          E\S
MAORCH 1991S



I1RD 22780
e *   }                                                 tot9ctO)6yeaonefe5 5g80t;f Zet~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~us.vely
o       o                  40                                                                                                a tO ue efgelo r eOt1k e
CHINA                dlh~~~~~~,,,e In lef l:O~  Fwao
c/ol I wl_
Ratnachuli                        Inodd I 0H a  lq Of/ 
loteroajiocal hacCffl 1
a7y~u ~efle  on    9 7g
N J   \  '\             Z      8 Aen  emeb'feaccIBrepdl tance of
/                                                                  SI/$  011 (flI'S.
MUSTANG Muk.th
'fillcho                                                       \M\,~~   1A N A N G 
MAYAGDI \-                                     Xt                          
Annapurno -i,Chore .sclu
HA 44, Annapurn i'
N E P A L                                       \'                   
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
MARSYANGDI CATCHMENT PILOT PROJECT                                     \
PROJECTCOMPONENTS:                     CATCHMENT BOUNDAR1-
ROAD IMPROVEMENT               I    MOUNTAIN TOPS
ELECTRiCATION SCHEME:               EXiSINGADSA                                              J U
_            33kV UNES                    0    SELECTED TOWNS AND ViLLAGES
11/6.35 kV LINES                 NATIONAL COPi1AL
-        SUBSTATION                          DISTRICT BOUNDARES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
84'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
|          -s_    ~~~~~~~~                               ~           ~~C H I N A  --,GORKHA
CHINATANAHv - --1A/
MARSYANGCDI
CAT(-HM(t"                             ~~~~~~~~~~~To Pokhara
N2v  P A L i
To Kathmondu
I N    D    I A                                                                                                                    9
MAkRCH 1991



