Document of
The World Bank
]FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5404-NEP Type: (PM)
O'LEARY, D/ X80408 / / ASIIE                              Report No. P-5404-NEP
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEV',LOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO ';'HE
EXECUTIVE 'DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 48.1 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used b- recipients only in the performance of
tbeir ofricial dudies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed writhout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Nepalese Rupee (NR)               US$ 0.023
1 Nepalese Rupee (NR)               100 Nepalese Paise
42.7 Nepalese Rupees                US$ 1.00
MEASURES
1 Kilovolt (kV)                     1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilowatt (kW)                     1,000 watts (W)
1 Megawatt (MW)              =      1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 Kilowatt - hour (kWh)      =      1,000 watt - hours (Wh)
1 Megawatt - hour (MWh)             1,000 kilowatt - hours (kWh)
1 Gigawatt - hour (GWh)      =      1,000,000 kilowatt - hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     - Asian Development Bank
EA      - Environmental Assessment
HIMG/N   -  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HV      - High Voltage
IEE     -  Initial Environmental Examination
IMF     -  International Monetary Fund
MHPP    - Marsyaagdi Hydroelectric Power Plant
MOF     - Ministry of Finance
MOI     - Ministry of Industry
MOWR    - Ministry of Water Resources
NDF     -  Nordic Development Fund
NEA     -  Nepal Electricity Authority
PE      -  Public Enterprise
SAC     -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP     -  Structural Adjustment Facility
SLA     -  Subsidiary Loan Agreement
UNDP    - United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
_ ii -
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiary:                    Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA)
Amount:                         SDR 48.1 million (US$ 65.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                          Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Onlending Terms:                Out of US$65 million, the Government would
onlend US$ 60.8 million to NEA at a rate of
10.25Z for a period of 20 years, including a
grace period of 5 years; the remaining
US$4.2 million covering energy conservation and
catchment management would be passed on as
grants to the Ministries of Industry and Works
and Transport. HMG/N would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Financing Plan:                 Government                 US$  1.6 million
NEA                       US$ 18.8 million
France                    US$  5.1 million
Germany (GTZ)             US$  4.2 million
Nordic Development Fund  US$  5.4 million
IDA                       US$ 65.0 million
Total                   US$100.1 million
Economic Rate of Return:        18Z.
Staff Appraisal Report:         Report No. 9077-NEP
Maps:                           IBRD 22331
IBRD 22780
This document has a restricted distribution and may be iuee E X recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its cokitents may not otherwise be ussuosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO NLPAL
FOR A POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed development
credit to Nepal for SDR 48.1 million (US$ 65.0 million equivalent) is
submitted for approval. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA termis
with 40 years maturity and would help finance a power sector efficiency
project. The Government would onlend US$60.8 million to NEA at an interest
rate of 10.252 per annum for a period of 25 years, including a grace period of
5 years; the remaining US$4.2 million would be passed on as grants to the
Ministries of Industry and Works and Transport respectively. The project will
be cofinanced by the Governments of France and the Federal Republic of Germany
and by the Nordic Development Fund.
PART I
COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Background
1.       Nepal--one of the poorest countries in the world--faces a uniquely
difficult development challenge. Its development efforts in recent decades
have been hindered by a number of fundamental and persistent constraints:
(a)      the country's rugged terrain and land-locked location
together with the country's poor resource endowment and
inappropriate policies have undermined the potential for
economic growth.
(b)      Nepal's long and open border with India, while conferring
significant benefits in terms of market access for
agricultural goods and inflows of investment and technology,
has limited its flexibility in designing and implementing
independent economic policies in such key area, as trade,
interest rates, exchange rates and pricing.
(c)      Continued high population growth has increased pressure on
limited arable area and contributed to widespread poverty
(especially in the hills), deforestation and environmental
degradation.
(d)      The structure of the administrative and political system has
limited the country's capacity to utilize available
resources, implement development projects and programs, and
deliver public services effectively.



2.      W4hile some of these factors are beyond its control, Nepal still has
substantial scope for improving its domestic economic management, policies and
institutions to enhance the effectiveness of its development effort. Economic
policies pursued in the first half of the last decade were, by and large,
inappropriate. Although the Government subsequently made a sustained effort
to improve its economic policies, the positive impact of these changes was
blunted by two developments over the last three years. First, the Trade and
Transit treaty (T&T) dispute with India disrupted trade, transport, and
economic activity in the FY89-90 period. Second, political developments
interrupted economic reform during FY90-91. The democratically elected
Government wlhich took office in May 1991 has just embarked on the difficult
course of resuming economic restructuring in an effort to achieve sustainable
poverty alleviation.
3.       Overall, the rate of economic growth and development has been slow.
Per capita income is currently estimated at only $170. The basic transport
and communications network in the country is rudimentary, commercial energy
consumption (19 kg of oil equivalent per head in 1988) is one of the lowest in
the world, adult literacy is only 19Z, and population growth rate (2.7Z per
annum over the past two decades) remains high despite low life expectancy (51
years at birth) and high infant mortality rates. Agriculture accounts for
over half of GDP and nearly 902 of employment. Structural weaknesses in the
economy help to perpetuate the conditions of poverty: the domestic savings
rate, averaging about 1OZ of GDP in the eighties, has been low; and the
extremely limited export base finances only 25-30% of imports. Nepal thus
relies heavily on external assistance for financing much of its development
activity and imports.
B. Recent Economic Developments
4.       Following centuries of self-imposed isolation, Nepal's efforts to
develop a modern economy began in the 1950s with a series of development
plans. The early development plans concentrated on building infrastructure to
provide a basis for future economic growth. Although progress was made in
this regard, economic growth during the 1970s barely kept up with population
growth. Frustrated by this slow economic growth, the government expanded
public expenditures in the early 1980s in an attempt to accelerate
development. Investment increased from 18Z of GDP in FY81 to 23% in FY85, and
annual GDP growth averaged almost 52 over this period. But, in the absence of
comparable efforts to mobilize domestic savings, the government resorted to
excessive bank borrowing. This resulted in sharp increases in the fiscal and
current account deficits, as .ell as a rise in inflation.  Government controls
over pricing and preferential access of public enterprises to bank credit
tended to undermine their efficiency and stifle private initiatives; while a
generally permissive attitude to using the banking system to promote various
government objectives significantly weakened the (largely state-owned)
financial system.
5.       Faced with this unsustainable macroeconomic situation, in the mid-
eighties, the Government implemented a stabilization program supported by an
IMF Standby arrangement approved in December 1985. Recognizing that



-3-
macroeconomic stability by itself would not lead to accelerated growth, the
Government subsequently undertook a structural adjustment program (SAP) which
was supported by IMF stand-by and SAP arrangements and IDA structural
adjustment credits to address some of the longer-term constraints to economic
growth. The adjustment program included measures to increase domestic
resource mobilization, reduce the growth of government expenditures and
borrowing from the banking system, improve project implementation, strengthen
the financial position of public enterprises, reform the financial sector in
order to improve monetary management and resource allocation and strengthen
the weak commercial banking sector, and liberalize industrial and trade
policies to expand the traded goods sector--all areas where significant
progress in alleviating structural constraints could be made within a medium-
term framework. These measures were complemented by sectoral reforms in
agriculture, forestry, and energy.
6.       The economy's initial response to the adjustment program was good.
Strong growth was achieved in FY88, while tighter monetary policies, increased
revenues, and restrained recurrent expenditures helped contain the budget and
balance of payments deficits. Some progress was also made in implementing
structural reforms by reducing tariffs, easing trade restrictions, and
improving the fertilizer and distribution system. Slippage, occurred,
however, in implementing financial sector reforms and in privatizing selected
public enterprises. Efforts to expand rapidly access to education and health
care led to inefficiencies.
7.       These generally favorable developments were sustained during FY89,
despite the disruption caused by the lapse of the trade and transit (T&T)
treaties with India in March 1989 which had pro-rided duty-free transit through
India for goods from third countries and between eastern and western parts of
Nepal itself, in addition to favorable trading arrangements for Nepal's
exports to and imports from India. After a few months of shortages, the
supply situation for key imports improved and economic activity picked up,
both because informal trade with India was allowed to continue and because
continued good weather in Nepal led to good agricultural crops in FY89 and
FY90. As a result, overall GDP growth reached 3.92 in FY89 and 3.6% in FY90.
Revised information also suggests that inflation, at 10X in FY90, was less
affected by the T&T dispute than was thought at the time. Despite political
disruptions (see below) the resolution of the T&T dispute and another good
year for agriculture spurred GDP growth of 4.02 for FY91. External reserves
rose to the equivalent of nearly six months of imports at the end of FY91 in
part due to large capital inflows from India.1'
8.       A series of dramatic political changes starting in early 1990
culminated in April 1990 in a sharply reduced role for the monarchy and
form.tion of an interim coalition government to prepare for parliamentary
democracy. The interim Government resolved the T&T dispute with India, revised
the constitution, and held democratic elections in May 1991. The Nepali
1/       Nepal has traditionally aimed at maintaining a reserve cover of at
least six months of imports in view of the country's relative isolation and
exposure to wide fluctuations in export earnings.



-4-
Congress Party secured a majority and a coalition of Couz.unist parties won a
strong minority of seats in the parliament. While the political changes hold
considerable promise for social and economic development. over the longer term,
the democratic transition has also created high popular expectations for rapid
improvements in economic conditions.
Table 1: NEPAL-KEY INDICATORS, FY87-91
FY87      FY88       FY89      FY90       FY91!'
Real GDP Growth                      3.9      7.3       3.9        3.6        4.0
Government Revenues/GDP            10.1      10.6        9.9      10.5       10.7
Government Expenditures/GDP         19.4     20.3      23.2       21.6       20.4
Overall Budgetary Deficit/C-DP     -9.3      -9.7     -13.3      -11.1       -9.7
Gross Investment/&ZP               21.8      21.4      22.0       18.2       18.0
National Savings/GDP               14.7      12.8      12.3        8.0        7.1
Exports/GDP                          5.1      6.0        5.4       5.8        7.6
Imports/GDP                        18.4      20.2      20.8       20.8       24.1
Current Account Deficit/GDP         -7.1     -8.6       -9.7     -10.2      -10.9
Gross Official Reserves
(months of imports)               3.8       5.4       5.0        6.3       6.0
Domestic Inflation Rate            13.3      11.0        6.3      11.5        9.8
aI Provisional
Source: Ministry of Finance and staff estimates.
9.       The new elected Government which took office in May 1991 inherited a
situation in which current public expenditures (including higher subsidies and
large wage increases) had increased significantly and the finances of many
public enterprises were extremely weak. Moreover, since the interim
government maintained fiscal and external control in part by restricting
development expenditures, project implementation problems were widespread.
10.      During its nine months in office, the new Government has made an
effort to come to grips with the immediate fiscal problems and address the
longer-term problems of poverty and development. Both tasks have been
complicated by recent economic reforms in India. Nepal wisely matched India's
adjustments in the exchange rate and fertilizer and petroleum prices. The
Government also implemented a long overdue increase in electricity tariffs of
around 60Z. While such reforms are badly needed to control Nepal's rising
budget deficit, these price increases, and the secondary effects of Indian
inflation and exchange rate changes, have caused Nepal's annual inflation rate
to rise to about 152. Over time, greater liberalization of the Indian economy
would provide an opportunity for Nepal to both open up its own economy and
exploit Indian markets for its exports. The new Government is studying these



possibilities and in the draft Approach Paper for the Eighth Plan the
Government has made clear that it is committed to an outward-oriented growth
strategy and a lead role for the private sector in a market-directed and
competitive economy. While the new Government has set poverty reduction as
its primary goal, the magnitude of the problem and high popular expectations
will make the job exceedingly difficult.
C. The Policy Framework
11.      The new Government has begun discussions with the IMF and the Bank to
formulate a comprehensive reform program. Many of the policy reforms would be
embodied in the Eighth Plan and the FY93 budget to be issued in July 1992. In
the face of the fundamental constraints noted earlier, the attainment of
growth rates in excess of 3-42 per annum on average over a sustained period is
a major challenge. Nepal cannot rely solely on a high growth-led strategy to
solve its poverty and employment problems. A more balanced and integrated
approach, combining efforts to stimulate near-term economic growth along with
revitalized human resource development, (emphasizing restraints on population
growth, as well as training and upgrading human capital through improved
provision of education, health facilities and other services) is therefore
essential to ensure sustainable development in the longer term. Concurrently,
attention needs to be given to better management of Nepal's fragile ecological
base and to improving the institutional capacity.
12.      It is also recognized that there is no easy solution to Nepal's
development challenge. Despite the overriding importance of agriculture as a
source of income and employment today, it has limited potential, given the
scarcity of arable land. While there is some scope for irrigation and
productivity improvements in non-irrigated areas in the Terai area bordering
Northern India, agriculture alone cannot be expected to generate sufficient
incomes and productive employment for the incremental labor force. The
industrial sector (which is presently quite small, contributing about 62 of
GDP) also is unlikely to be a catalyst for growth in the near to medium term.
Thus, a large proportion of the new entrants to the labor force is likely to
be thrown into services and self employment activities, with probable
declining productivity and marginal incomes. Nepal, therefore, will need to
explore and exploit all possible opportunities for income and employment.
generation in every sector. For example, there is potential to expand labor-
intensive exports to third-country markets (building on the recent success of
ready-made garments and carpets); there is also scope to better capitalize on
Nepal's proximity to India by identifying and developing particular niches in
the latter's vast market for exports of selected Nepalese small-scale
industrial as well as agricultural products. Nepal also needs to explore the
possibilities for cost-effective and environmentally sound exploitation of her
main natural resources--hydropower (for which India is likely to be a large
market) and tourism.
13.      The new Government has indicated that it shares this perception of
the country's problems and potential. It also agrees that sound macroeconomic
policies and improved management of public resources are critical
prerequisites for poverty alleviation. It appreciates the fact the



-6-
government's weak institutional capacity has thwarted previous development
efforts; and it is determined to redress this situation. Moreover, it has
moved swiftly to strengthen relations with India with the objective of
expanding cooperation through trade, investment, and water resource
development. Nevertheless, it will take considerable fortitude for the newly
elected government to maintain fiscal restraint and implement the necessary
longer-term reforms in the face of short-term political pressures.
Macroeconomic Management and Policies
14.      The establishment of macroeconomic stability and revitalization of
the economic reform process is a necessary prerequisite for accelerating
growth and development. Prudent fiscal and monetary policies need to be
pursued to protect the balance of payments. Achievement of macroeconomic
stability should permit the Government to focus its attention on improving
public resource management in order to mobilize and reallocate resources more
efficiently. Concurrently, bearing in mind economic relationships with India,
efforts need to be made to strengthen financial, trade, and industrial
policies to improve resource allocation and competitiveness and encourage
private initiative. An important step was made under SAC II to improve
banking supervision, recapitalize the two government-owned commercial banks
(which dominate the banking system), and improve collections of overdue debt
service. To ensure that these institutions remain viable, the initial efforts
need to be followed up with moves to restructure the two state-owned banks, as
well as to improve their management and operational procedures. More
determined efforts are also needed to foster greater competition in, and
efficiency of, the financial system by freeing up interest rate determination
and developing new monetary instruments.
15.      To invigorate the export sector and to achieve higher growth, greater
liberalization and rationalization of the trade regime within the limits posed
by India's evolving system is also essential. Incentives are still high for
smuggling and import substituting activities, and export profitability remains
low, in large part due to price distortions created by the trade regime; the
number of tariff rates is still large, and the relatively large dispersion of
tariffs within similar categories of goods provides scope for progress towards
unifying effective tariff and protection rates. There is general agreement
within the Government on the need for trade reform aimed at import
liberalization and improved export competitiveness taking into consideration
the pace and direction of reforms in India, as well as the revenue impact of
tariff liberalization.
Public Resource Management
16.      Improved development performance will require significant reform in
the management of public financial resources and in public administration.
While Nepal needs to increase public investment levels, since resources will
inevitably be scarce, it is even more important to increase the efficiency of
resource use. Moreover, to enable Nepal to make better use of foreign
resources, it must mobilize more domestic resources and develop better
mechanisms for planning, allocation and utilization of available (domestic and
external) resources.



-7-
17.      On the revenue side, tax reforms are needed to broaden the tax base,
simplify the tax structure, and increase tax elasticity.  There is also
considerable room for increased cost recovery from users of publicly provided
goods and services through appropriate adjustments in prices and tariffs.
On the expenditure side, there is a need for greater realism in planning,
allocating, and implementing the expenditure program. A more balanced
strategy to manage human and natural resources for development would require
higher recurrent, as well as O&M, expenditures in many areas than has been
provided up to now. To release resources for these purposes, as well as for
development projects, other current expenditures need to be cut back.  Towards
this end, the Government needs to restrain public sector wages, benefits, and
employment--all of which have increased significantly in recent years; and it
will need to reduce domestic borrowing in order to restrain the growth of debt
service. Equally important is the need to reexamine the development budget
and reallocate resources to higher priority projects. The development program
is heavily over-committed in relation to the Government's financial,
administrative, and managerial capacity; and many projects, although largely
externally funded, are starved of funds, in part due to bureaucratic
procedures and because most of the limited local currency resources are
earmarked for purely locally funded projects, many of which have not been
properly appraised. This rationalization of expenditures would be facilitated
by establishment of a realistic resource envelope, and definition and
implementation of a core program. In an encouraging first step, the National
Planning Commission (NPC) has been revitalized and has been given a mandate to
work with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and line ministries in a proiect by
project review of the public investment portfolio.
Public Administration
18.      A continuing impediment to Nepal's development effort to date has
been weak project implementation and the poor quality of government services
at all levels. These public sector institutional problems have been well
documented: they include a poorly motivated civil service; excessive
centralization and overstaffing at the central level, combined with
inadequately trained and supervised local staff; and archaic administrative
procedures. The recommended reforms in public administration are not new.
These include restructuring of civil service pay and incentives, retrenchment
of superfluous staff (in government service, as well as in public
enterprises); procedural simplification; increased local revenue mobilization;
and redefinition of the role of government in service delivery to improve cost
recovery and take into account the comparative advantage of the private sector
and NGOs. The new Government believes that it needs a high calibre and
responsive civil service to fulfill its election promises to redirect
development programs to reduce poverty and improve the quality of government-
provided services. Toward this end, it has established an Administrative
Reform Commission chaired by the Prime Minister, which is scheduled to present
a comprehensive program of phased reforms by March 1992.
Public Enterprise (PE) Reform
19.      Poor performance of PEs remains a serious problem, draining budgetary
resources and undermining potential for efficient industrial growth and



sustainable employment generation by discouraging new entrants and wasting
resources. Pestrictive pricing and labor policies and poor investment choices
and decision-making further contribute to PE inefficiency. In addition,
interventionist policies affecting PE output, pricing, and access to inputs,
as well as controls on employment and compensation, prevent PEs from operating
on commercial principles. The financial condition of the PEs has deteriorated
further in recent years as a res. t of excess hiring and a rapid growth in
compensation.
20.      The previous Government's efforts to improve PE performance and
privatize a few firms were largely unsuccessful. The new Government has
stated that it wishes to institute PE reforms; and it has asked the Bank (with
UNDP financing) to assist it in an initial demonstration effort to t..ivatize
three firms.  Consultants are now working with Grvernment to help wi'-I
valuation and preparation of bids. In addition, a more comprehensive program
of PE reforms is needed for those firms which remain in the public sector.
Role of the Private Sector
21.      As noted earlier, the new Government has stated that it wishes to
harness the energies of the private sector in the task of development. Modest
efforts were made under the SAC/SAF programs to expand the role of the private
sector in the distribution of fertilizer; and explicit measures were
undertaken to involve user groups in public irrigation schemes and in the
forestry subsector. However, progress to date has been slow, in part due to
the perceived absence of a strong indigenous industrial and business community
and, more importantly, the continuation of prevailing interventionist
attitudes and policies.
22.      Although prospects for foreign investment, aside from India, are
limited given Nepal's resource base and landlocked position, initiatives need
to be taken over a broad front to encourage greater private participation.
The creation of a more attractive economic policy framework is an important
requirement for encouraging more efficient, and hence sustainable, private
investment. Deregulation of industrial licensing, relaxation of government
controls over pricing, and a reduced role for public enterprises in the
economy are important steps in this regard. There is also scope and need for
involvinC the beneficiaries in the design and implementation of a broad range
of local development activities--for example, in irrigation, forestry, rural
infrastructure, and especially in mobilizing participation and resources for
operation and maintenance of publicly created assets. From the start, the new
Government has expressed its intention to move in this direction. It is now
working to back up its initial pronouncements with specific policy statements
and programs--including proposed amendments to the legislation governing
industrial investments and foreign investment.
D. Sectoral Policies and Programs
23.      Any attempt to come to grips with Nepal's formidable obstacles to
development (para. 1' must take account of sectoral issues. More than in most
countries, sectoral problems--including rapid population growth, low



-9-
agricultural productivity, environmental degradation, and inadequate human
resource development--have contributed to Nepal's disappointing development
performance. While sound macroeconomic management is a prerequisite in Nepal
as it is in all countries, major sectoral reforms will be needed to interrupt
the cycle of poverty and achieve self-sustaining development.
24.      Population, Poverty, and the Environment.  Nepal's population growth
averaging 2.7Z per annum has eroded the limited gains that have been made in
GDP and agricultural output. Population pressure has caused cultivation of
increasingly marginal lands, resulting in stagnating average foodgrain yields.
It has also increased the demand for forest resources for fuel, fodder, and
timber, leading to a rapid loss of forest cover and soil erosion. Moreover,
by straining the institutional and financial capacity of the government to
deliver public services, high population growth has impeded efforts to
increase access to education and other social services. As a result, Nepal's
indicators for literacy (estimated at 35Z), infant mortality (124 per 1000),
and incidence of disease although improving are still amongst the worst in the
world. And the condition of women is well below that of men as reflected in
primary school enrolment ratios of only one-third for girls compared to one
half for boys.
25.      The inextricable link between population growth, poverty, and
environmental degradation in Nepal suggests that efforts to reduce poverty and
preserve natural resources must include a more effective attack on population
growth. In contrast to most other Asian countries, Nepal has never had a
strong population campaign backed by the highest levels of Government. The
current population program is extremely weak, and relies too heavily on
sterilization. There is a need for a massive effort to reach couples of
reproductive age with information and services and to offer them a variety of
temporary contraceptive methods, supported by follow-up services and
motivational efforts. The Government is also beginning to provide extra
resources to give higher priority to expanded education for girls and rural
health services.
26.      A concerted effort to limit population growth is a necessary but not
sufficient condition for the reduction of poverty. Nearly half of Nepal's
inhabitants live in absolute poverty. Since there is little scope for income
redistribution, solutions to the poverty problem must be found in sustainable
growth which creates employment for the poor without damaging the country's
natural resources. While Nepal does not operate the large-scale subsidy and
transfer programs found in many developing countries, there are a number of
poverty alleviation programs, most of which have had very little success.
Subsidies on food distribution, fertilizer, and interest rates account for the
bulk of the expenditures under these programs; but these are not well targeted
and place an increasing burden on the government budget. Although isolated
small development and credit projects--often managed by NGOs--have had some
success in reaching the poor, they are generally costly, require heavy
supervision, and would not be replicable on a large scale. While there is
scope for improving the focus of these programs, the major impact on
alleviating poverty is likely to stem from country-wide policy reforms to
promote broad-based growth and more effective population programs as well as
strengthened education services. In particular, measures such as promotion of



- 10 -
user groups in forestry and minor irrigation, development and dissemination of
appropriate technical packages for hill agriculture, and investments in
health, primary education, and--on a selective basis--in rural physical
infrastructure are likely to have a especially beneficial effect on the poor.
If properly designed, these efforts are also likely to be the most cost
effective approaches to preservation of the environment.
27.      Agriculture.  Although the Government and foreign donors have given
priority to agriculture in recent years, their results in raising incomes and
productivity have been disappointing. Reasons for the pnor performance of
agriculture include lack of reliable water supply even on irrigated land;
unreliable fertilizer supplies and poor management of the state-owned
distribution agency; and weak agricultural research and extension. The new
Government has indicated that it intends to give new vigor to the measures
begun under the SAC to liberalize the distribution of agricultural inputs and
involve farmer user groups in the management of irrigation facilities. It
needs to strengthen the community forestry program, which is of prime
importante not only for raising incomes in the hills, but also for preserving
Nepal's environment. In addition, agricultural research should be made more
responsive to farmer needs and should make greater use of more successful
applications in India and elsewhere.
28.      Manufacturing, Trade, and Water Resources.  While manufacturing grew
rapidly in the eighties, its share in GDP remains about 62 and its share of
employment is even lower. The industrial sector is characterized by high
import protection and extensive regulation which inhibit productive economic
activity and encourage rent-seeking and trading. The changing policy
environment in India could provide an opportunity for Nepal to shift to a more
.outward looking trade and industrial regime as exemplified in recent successes
in garments and carpets as well as in transport cost related commodities and
cottage industries for the domestic market and India. To benefit from such
reforms, Nepal must also maintain competitive wage rates through appropriate
fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate policies; and it must improve the skills
level of its labor force.
29.      Nepal's proximity to India also offers longer-term opportunities for
export of hydropower. However, given the relatively large capital costs of
hydropower projects, the Government needs to review its resource constraints
and investment priorities to determine a manageable and financeable energy
program (see para. 36). Over the longer-term, revenue from power exports
could help alleviate Nepal's chronic balance of payments deficit and generate
resources for the budget. The new Government appears to appreciate the mutual
benefits which could be derived from cooperation with India on water
resources, and has given serious and high level attention to bilateral
negotiations.
E. IDA's Assistance to Nepal
30.      Bank Group Operations.  The Bank fielded its first economic mission
to Nepal in 1963 and the first IDA credit was approved in 1969. The
relationship of more than 25 years has grown increasingly close. The Bank's



- 11 -
role in preparing periodic economic reports and in organizing and chairing the
Aid Group for Nepal has provided the basis for a regular dialogue. This
advisory role became particularly close when the Government sought the
assistance of the IMF and the Bank in FY86 in support of a structural
adjustment program--which was subsequently supported with two IDA adjustment
credits approved in FY87 and FY89. Since taking office in May 1991, the new
Government has maintained a close working relationship with the Bank and has
sought frequent advice from the Bank on economic and developn t issues.
31.      IDA has approved a total of 57 credits for Nepal. totalling (net of
cancellations) US$1,084.2 million (Table 2). In recent years, disbursements
have averaged $50-100 million annually. Five sectors account for about 76X of
IDA credits by amount: agriculture and irrigation; water supply and sewerage;
power and energy; telecommunications; and highways. Agriculture and
irrigation have accounted for 372 of the amount and 42? of the number of
credits. Since most of the aid from bilateral donors is on grant terms, IDA's
share of Nepal's total external debt is about 452 as compared to about 28Z for
the Asian Development Bank and 3? for the IMF. However, IDA's share of
Nepal's debt service (which includes payments on a commercial purchase of an
aircraft and IMF charges) is only about 12Z. IFC has made two investments in
Nepal, the first in FY75 (US$3.2 million) for the expansion of the Soaltee
Hotel project in Kathmandu and the second in FY82 (DM 14.5 million) to the
Nepal Orind Magnesite Company for mining and production of dead burnt
magnesite. No IBRD loans have been made to Nepal and MIGA has not conducted
any operations in Nepal.
Table 2: IDA ASSISTANCE TO NEPAL, FY70-92 a/
(In US $ Million)
Commitments                Operations
Amount      Sector          Number    Sector
$ Million    Share 2                   Share ?
Agriculture                   162.90       14.57             13       22.81
Irrigation                    247.50       22.13             11       19.30
Industry                       28.00        2.50              4        7.02
Power/Energy                  200.80       17.95              5        8.77
Education                      66.98        5.99              5        8.77
Telecommunications             43.78        3.91              4        7.02
Transport                      82.51        7.38              4        7.02
Urban/Water                   148.30       13.26              5        8.77
SACs                          110.00        9.84              2        3.51
TA & Other                     27.60        2.47              4        7.02
Total                       1,118-37k1   100.00              57      100.00
a! As of January 1992.
b/ US $1084.15 million net of cancellations.



- 12 -
32.     Project Implementation.  Utilization of IDA assistance has been
constrained historically by Nepal's limited absorptive capacity. The
overriding constraint is the institutional one. Weaknesses in public
administration both contribute to and are affected by shortfalls in
counterpart funding, protracted procurement, delays in release of funds,
inadequate cost recovery for public services, and unreliable supplies of raw
materials. These perennial problems were exacerbated by the trade and transit
dispute which caused shortages and delays in obtaining fuel and other
essential commodities. In addition, the political transition caused delays in
decision making on procurement and release of funds, while the fiscal problems
noted above have caused the Government to reduce funding for a number of IDA
projects. The result has been a marked deterioration of the portfolio and
decline in the ratio of disbursements to outstanding commitments in comparison
to earlier years. There is also concern about the need to improve cost
recovery and provide adequate operations and maintenance. In its dialogue
with the new Government, the Bank has made it clear that implementation
performance is the major criterion for increased IDA assistance. The
Government shares this concern about the need to improve implementation. It
has commenced a portfolio review and has indicated that it wishes to work
closely with IDA to either restructure or terminate projects with serious
problems. Meanwhile IDA has strengthened supervision and taken actions to
simplify projects and restructure the portfolio. While this should help,
these efforts will need to be reinforced by systemic reforms to deal with the
underlying public sector management problems describAd above.
33.     Economic/Sector Work and Investment Priorities.   Historically, the
Bank's assistance strategy focused on infrastructure development (primarily
hydropower, highways, and irrigation), agriculture, and forestry, with some
involvement in industry and education. This strategy reflected the need for
basic economic infrastructure in a country virtually unexposed to modern
development until the mid-1950s, the dependence of the economy on agriculture,
and the scarcity of human resources at all levels. These priorities continue,
but particular emphasis is now being given to strengthening social services as
well as overcoming the institutional impediments to development as part of a
broader strategy to ensure sustainable natural resource management.
34.     Almost all IDA operations, as well as economic and sector work (ESW),
are designed to address, either directly or indirectly, the primary goal of
poverty alleviation which in Nepal is predicated on more rapid growth. A two
volume FY91 Bank report "Nepal: Relieving Poverty in a Resource-Scarce
Economy11' recommended a strategy to expand employment and income generating
activities and alleviate poverty through: (a) a more effective population and
health program; (b) improved minor irrigation and better technical support for
agriculture; (c) cost-effective road and trail building to improve rural
access; (d) expanded basic education; and (e) rationalization of transfer
programs to reach the target beneficiaries. IDA's lending and ESW is intended
to assist in implementation of this strategy.
3/Report No. 8635-NEP



- 13 -
35.     Of the 13 operations currently being prepared for possible approval in
FY92-94, three will be in human resource development, one in basic education
and two in population and health. These projects, as well as a planned rural
water supply project, will improve the quality and expand the availability of
services and facilities for the poor and women in particular. Such projects
are very difficult to do in Nepal because of the weak institutional capacity,
especially in the rural areas. Extra time and resources are being devoted to
preparation and appraisal in an attempt to (a) learn from previous donor-
funded projects and (b) foster full government commitment. In both cases, IDA
is working closely with other donors and NGOs; and in each case the objective
will be to channel multi-donor support to a single government program rather
than continue to finance diverse projects. The effectiveness of two proposed
projects in the agriculture sector and one in forestry are being enhanced by
involving farmers more in all stages of implementation. Participation of
local groups in project planning and management is viewed as essential to
improve the quality of operations and maintenance and, ultimately, to achieve
sustainable development. In addition, it is seen as the key to preservation
of the environment.
36.     IDA expects to continue to support the development of the Nepal's
considerable hydropower resources, both to meet domestic energy requirements
and in the longer run as a potential source of export earnings. Under IDA's
leadership, a dozen donors have for a number of years supported the
Government's efforts to prepare the Arun hydropower project. During this
time, design changes and delays caused by the T&T dispute and political
changes have caused the costs to rise. Given the scale and current costs of
the proposed Arun project (402 MW, for which the first phase of 268 MW would
cost about US$1 billion) in comparison to Nepal's economy, IDA is currently
reviewing its affordability and the operational sequencing of Arun and
alternative hydropower and thermal investments in an effort to arrive at a
balanced investment program on which both the Government and the donors can
agree. In the meantime, the proposed Power Efficiency Improvement project
would reduce system and financial losses and would, inter alia, help to
strengthen the capacity of the electricity authority to carry out the power
investment program and operate and maintain the system.
37.     In contrast to more developed countries where environmental problems
are caused by too much development, in Nepal environmental degradation is a
consequence of poverty caused by population pressures on limited natural
resources. Consequently, efforts to preserve the environment must involve
limits on population growth and the more efficient use of the country's
resources. In particular, recently approved and planned projects in
population and health, education, agriculture, irrigation, forestry, and
hydropower are all designed to realign this fundamental relationship between
the Nepalese people and their environment. This broad strategy will be
supplemented by a number of specific environmental project components
including watershed management, industrial pollution standards, and drinking
water purity. The Government, with the assistance of UNDP, ADB, IDA and ODA,
has undertaken a number of studies addressing environmental issues and is in
the midst of preparing an action program which would meet the needs of the
forthcoming UNCED conference as well as establish future lending and technical
assistance priorities for donors including IDA.



- 14 -
38.     More efficient use of public expenditures is a prerequisite for more
rapid development in l.epal. The budget must be streamlined to ensure that
scarce government resources support activities which enable the private sector
to make a maximum contribution to growth and employment generation. In
addition, budget priorities must be reoriented to serve the poverty
alleviation strategy described above. As noted earlier, the new Government
shares this view, and it has cooperated with the Bank on ongoing economic work
focused on these issues. The Government has also sought IDA's advice and
possible support in its administrative reform efforts. If further progress is
made on these public resource management issues, they are likely to be the
focus of the next IDA policy-based operation for Nepal.
39.     Since government involvement in the economy in Nepal often inhibits
rather than fosters development, IDA's strategy emphasizes greater reliance on
the private sector. Efforts to shift from public to private sector the
distribution and management of fertilizer and irrigation water were central to
the SAC reforms. Further progress in such reforms is being reinforced through
projects in irrigation and forestry. Sector work and IDA assistance will also
support follow-up to the financial sector reforms initiated under the SAC with
the objective of promoting efficiency and competition among the public and
private sector banks and increasing the availability of credit for private
investment. In addition, planned ESW underway is exploring the possibility
for greater reliance on the private sector for delivery of services at the
local level. IDA is also assisting the Government in its preliminary efforts
to privatize a few PEs; and Government has expressed interest in IDA
assistance in undertaking a more comprehensive program to rationalize the PE
sector and reduce the growing burden inefficient state-owned corporations
place on the government budget. As appropriate, IFC/FIAS will assist the
Government in privatizing selected PEs, as well as in attracting foreign
investment. With the recent expansion of the IFC Regional Office in New
Delhi, IFC is actively pursuing possible new investment projects in tourism
and agro-industries in collaboration with other private foreign partners.
40.     Planned Lending Level and Composition of Assistance.  During FY92-95
IDA expects to commit US$400-500 million for about 12 operations in Nepal,
including one or two adjustment credits. The actual amount of new lending
each year will depend on (a) progress in improving performance under ongoing
projects and in processing new operations, and (b) maintenance of sound
macroeconomic policies and a focus on poverty alleviation through human
resource development. If the Government demonstrates a commitment to further
reforms under SAP, IDA would consider a policy-based credit to support reforms
in public resource management. Investment credits will give added attention
to the social sectors, in addition to the traditional emphasis on agriculture
and infrastructure.
41.     Coordination with the IMF.  The Bank and the IMF have worked closely
in Nepal since the commencement of adjustment efforts in 1985. A third Policy
Framework Paper prepared by the Government, with the joint assistance of the
Fund and the Bank, was discussed by the Committee of the Whole on November 7,
1989. The Bank has also worked closely with the Fund on financial sector
issues and on related studies of public enterprises. Most recently, Bank and



- 15 -
Fund staff have collaborated in discussions with the new Government with a
view toward a possible PFP/ESAF program.
42.     Aid Coordination.  The aid community has given generous support to
Nepal for many years. The donors have, however, expressed concern in recent
years about weak project implementation and the lack of sustainable
development results. At the October 1990 Aid Group meeting in Paris, a number
of donors expressed hope that the recent political developments and emerging
democratic framework might provide an opportunity for more broad-based
development. With this situation in mind, the donors pledged a total of US$1
billion equivalent for the two-year period, FY91-92. The donors represent a
large segment of the international community, led by IDA, the ADB, and Japan.
Coordination among the donors has improved in recent years, assisted by
regular meetings of the Local Aid Group--co-chaired by the Bank's Resident
Representative and the UNDP Resident Representative. The next Paris meeting
is scheduled for April 1992.
F. External Financing Requirements
43.     Nepal should be able to achieve an economic growth rate on the order
of around 42 per annum over the medium term, provided that the government
remains committed to the task of accelerating growth and development. To
support such growth and particularly to finance the necessary investment
levels, Nepal will need to rely on substantial increases in external
assistance. Even with an improvement in the government revenue/GDP ratio and
domestic savings, Nepal will still face a savingslinvestment gap on the order
of 9-10% of GDP, and an overall fiscal deficit of about the same magnitude
without taking into account possible additional financing requirements for one
or more large hydropower investments over the next few years. Thus far, these
deficits have been largely financed by external aid. Even though Nepal's
merchandise exports in nominal dollar terms are expected to rise by about 13?
per annum, and imports of goods are expected to rise by only 6? in nominal
dollar terms, the external current account deficit is also expected to remain
around 9-102 of GDP over the next few years. This will mean that, allowing
for maintenance of foreign exchange reserves at 6-7 months of imports
coverage, gross external financing requirements will average $300-350 million
a year over the next few years.
44.     Nepal has a substantial accumulated project aid pipeline of about $1.4
billion; and a significant part (over half) of the required disbursements are
expected to come from the existing pipeline. Improved public resource
management, as envisaged in the development strategy, could help improve
project implementation and facilitate increased disbursements from the
existing aid pipeline. The balance of the required disbursements would need
to come from new commitments, including modest amounts of quick-disbursing
assistance, mainly from the Asian Development bank (ADB), IDA, and to a lesser
extent, bilateral donors. The IMF presently does not have a program with
Nepal; however, the possibility of an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAE) currently under discussion could provide significant balance of
payments support over the next three years.



- 16 -
45.     Nepal's outstanding medium- and long-term external debt is expected to
increase from an estimated $1.6 billion at the end of FY91 to about
$2.0 billion by end FY93. Given the substantial (23Z) devaluation of the
Nepali Rupee last July, external debt in local currency terms is expected to
rise to 66% of GDP in FY92. This ratio is expected to remain around 70Z over
the medium term. Nevertheless, since most loans carry highly concessional
terms, the debt service ratio is projected to remain modest at about 13-142 of
current export receipts.
G. Summary Assessment and Performance Criteria
46.     Nepal, with her meager resource endowment and topographical and
locational constraints, faces a uniquely difficult development challenge.
Reform efforts in recent years, although successful in achieving a measure of
macroeconomic stability and improving domestic policies in key areas, have had
little impact in stimulating economic growth, or ameliorating the structural
weaknesses of the economy. Alleviation of widespread poverty and interruption
of the cycle of population pressure, denudation of the limited resource base,
and environmental degradation remain pressing development goals. For this
purpose accelerated economic growth must be accompanied by a broad-based and
comprehensive development strategy emphasizing greater attention to human
resource development and better management of natural and financial resources.
47.     The establishment of macroeconomic stability and revitalizing the
economic reform process, particularly in the areas of sound public resource
management, improving and strengthening institutions and policies in the
financial sector, increasing the efficiency of public enterprises and
involving the private sector more actively in the task of development are
vital to sustain economic growth and generate employment opportunities. Nepal
also needs to take advantage of the reforms in India to liberalize its own
trade and industrial policies to improve resource allocation and growth
potential (especially for exports) and to monitor its wage rate policies in
order to maintain its external competitiveness. As important as these
macroeconomic policies are, improvwnents in major sectoral policies are
equally critical to improving development performance in Nepal. Given the
complex interlinkages between rapid population growth, declining agricultural
productivity in the hills, inadequate human resource development and
environmental degradation, a frontal attack on Nepal's development problem
must begin with a much greater government cormitment to curbing population
growth. There is also need for increasing access of the poor (who account for
virtually half of the population) to education, other social services and
basic infrastructure. In agriculture, industry, irrigation, as well as
forestry, there is a critical need to involve the beneficiaries in the design
and implementation of projects, in the delivery of inputs and services and
especially in mobilizing and in managing resources for the operation and
maintenance of assets. Nepal also needs to explore possible exports to third
countries and to India, especially hydroelectric power, and the potential for
tourism. Above all, there is a pressing need to improve institutional and
absorptive capacity, which has frustrated Nepal's development efforts all
along, by improving the quality and motivation of the public administration.
While the advent of a democratic political system and the initial economic



- 17 -
policy thrust of the new Government offer considerable promise for
improvements in these difficult areas, it will take determination to follow
through with the necessary reforms to accelerate and sustain development.
48.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the
Government's development effort mainly through a series of investment
operations particularly in the areas of population, health and education,
water resource development, and financial development, and through economic
work and technical assistance aimed at improving public financial and natural
resource management. In judging the country's progress towards more
sustainable development, as outlined above, IDA would focus on:
- continued maintenance of macroeconomic stability through prudent
fiscal/monetary policies, further trade liberalization measures and
flexible exchange rate policies;
- effective actions to improve public resource management, including
prioritizing recurrent and capital expenditures, increasing
allocations for social sectors, reductions in inefficient subsidies
and strengthened resource mobilization measures including improved
cost recovery from users;
- reform of the administrative system as evidence by a more streamlined
and motivated civil service and revitalized institutions;
- privatization and/or commercialization of selected public enterprises
and liberalizing the regulatory framework;
-financial sector reforms, including less reliance on subsidized
directed credit, more flexible interest rate policies, and
restructuring the state banks; and
- efforts to reduce population growth, enhance the effectiveness of
social sector programs, particularly for the rural poor and women, and
improve natural resource management.
Performance will be monitored through future PFPs, economic reports for the
regular Paris aid group meetings and on-going as well as planned adjustment
and investment operations.
PART II: THE PROPOSED CREDIT
49.     Background.  Since 1981 Nepal has more than quadrupled its hydropower
capacity to 241 MW. However, the scarcity of spare parts and inadequate
maintenance of its older plants have resulted in a progressive decline in
generating plant efficiency and availability which may be seriously aggravated
unless action is taken to rehabilitate these plants. At the same time, delays
in the expansion and reinforcement of the transmission and distribution system
have led to increased system losses, interruption of supply and deterioration
of service. The creation of the Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) in August
1985 by amalgamating a number of entities has improved systems planning and



- 18 -
subsectoral coordination; however, NEA's overall performance has been weak.
The joint IDA/ADB Power Subsector Review (Report No. 6879a-NEP dated January
15, 1988) established a strategy which was endorsed at a Donors' Meeting in
Paris in May 1988 for the efficient development of Nepal's power system,
including a least cost investment program and a Performance Improvement Plan.
NEA's financial position has become very weak due to stagnant tariffs and
financial management deficiencies. The proposed project is part of NEA's
investment program, and it includes measures to restore NEA's financial
viability over a four-year period.
50.     Rationale for IDA Involvement.  IDA has provided six credits to
support power subsector development in Nepal; two of these supported the
preparation of hydroelectric projects while four financed investments. While
progress on the preparatory studies has generally been satisfactory,
experience with two completed hydroelectric projects (Kulekhani and
Marsyangdi) has been mixed. Physical implementation of projects has improved
markedly but weaknesses in institutional and financial performance still
exist. The proposed Project would be the first IDA credit for which NSA would
be the principal beneficiary and would involve IDA in the development of
priority areas of NEA's investment program including rehabilitation of
existing generation and transmission facilities. It is consistent with the
agreed framework set out in the Power Subsector Review for the development of
Nepal's power subsector and would facilitate IDA's support for NEA's
Performance Improvement Plan. It would also enable NEA to strengthen its
financial performance and finance an increasing share of the local costs of
its investment program
51.     Proiect Objectives.  The project's primary objective would be to:
(a) increase NEA's effective supply capacity by improving technical and
operational efficiency, upgrading existing generation capacity and improving
the system load factor; (b) restore NEA's financial viability and strengthen
its institutional performance; and (c) enhance energy conservation measures.
In addition, the project would address remaining environmental concerns
arising from the Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Power Project (NHPP) (Cr. 1478-NEP)
by supporting an innovative approach to catchment management on a pilot basis.
52.     Project Description.  The project would include:  (a) rehabilitation
of the 35 MW Trisuli and Devighat hydroelectric plants; (b) reinforcementl
upgrading of the existing transmission and distribution system in the
Katbmandu valley including provisions for spares, equipment and tools, and
construction of a 132 kV interconnection with India to upgrade power exchange
capabilities; (c) provision of equipment for NEA's headquarters offices, a
training centre and centrally located workshops; (d) provision of technical
assistance to the Ministry of Industry to assist local industries in
identifying energy conservation measures; and (e) implementation of the
Marsyangdi Catchment Management Pilot Plan, includings (i) soil conservation
and sediment control; (ii) upgrading of the Dumre-Besisahar road; and (iii)
rural electrification in the Marsyangdi valley. Technical assistance in the
form of consulting services to assist HMG/N and NEA in implementation and
training of Nepalese technical staff would be provided with each project
component as well as to improve the effectiveness of NEA's management, train
higher level and support staff and improve billing.



- 19 -
53.     The total project cost is estimated at US$88.6 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$72.1 million (81Z). A breakdown of
costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of
procurement and of disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown in
Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of
Bank Group operations in Nepal are given in Schedules C and D, respectively.
Two maps highlighting the project areas, IBRD Nos. 22331 and 22780, are
attached. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 9077-NEP dated February 27, 1992 is
being distributed separately.
54.     Agreed Actions.  HMGtN has already completed the following agreed
actions: (a) implementation of a tariff increase of 61? effective November 17,
1991 in accord with the financial covenants described below; and (b) prepared
a draft three year rolling Performance Contract (PC) with NEA to provide the
framework for implementing NEA's Performance Improvement Plan which was
discussed and agreed with IDA during negotiations (signature of the PC will be
a condition of effectiveness). Also NEA has: (c) employed a new, well
qualified Director of Finance on contract; (d) set up a Human Resources
Department reporting directly to the Managing Director; (e) developed and is
implementing a dated monitorable action program for reducing its consumer
receivables to the equivalent of three months sales by July 15, 1993 and
maintaining them at that level thereafter; and (f) initiated a number of steps
to improve the accuracy of its financial accounts (including revaluation of
assets, completion of subsidiary loan agreements since its incorporation, and
the transfer of the Marsyangdi Project) as well as bring its audits up to
date. The financial covenants agreed for the project provide that NEA will
adjust its tariffs and undertake other measures to: (a) self finance
increasing proportions of the local costs of its investment program (including
interest during construction) rising from 45X (FY92) to 702 (FY97); and
(b) achieve rates of return on revalued assets of 5? in FY96 and 62
thereafter. In addition NEA has agreed: (a) to submit to IDA by March 31 each
year: (i) details of its proposed investments for the three following years
with a related financing plan; and (ii) annual forecast financial stateuents,
together with the proposed measures (including tariff adjustments) to meet the
requirements of the financial covenants; (b) during the execution of its
investment program, not to undertake any further investments estimated to cost
more than US$5 million outside the program without the approval of IDA; and
(c) to set up a separate Directorate to manage its rural electrification
program.
55.     Environmental Impact.  The proposed Project is not expected to
generate appreciable adverse ecological effects. An environmental assessment
(EA) has been conducted of the Trisuli-Devighat component as well as an
initial environmental examination (IEE) of the RV component.  The EA includes
an environmental action plan that was discussed and agreed between NEA and IDA
to ameliorate the Trisuli-Devighat's component's environmental impacts
relating to reclamation of the borrow pit and use of commercial energy sources
(kerosene, electricity) and firewood acquired from legal sources by the civil
works contractor. The EA established that no landholdings would be affected
by the Trisuli-Devighat component. The IRE (prepared according to the Bank's
environmental guidelines for transmission lines) established that 42
households would need to be resettled including those affected by the



- 20 -
substations. NEA and IDA have agreed on an acquisition/compensation/
resettlement action plan under generic guidelines that NEA has developed for
transmission projects in accord with the norms developed under the Arun-III
Access Road Project (Cr. 2029-NEP). The Project includes funding to implement
the action plans. The Marsyangdi catchment management component will address
environmental concerns such as soil conservation and sediment reduction
through changing land use patterns in degraded land and improving local
inhabitants' income.
56.     Poverty Alleviation.  During the construction and civil works stages,
the proposed Project would provide direct employment to the local labor force.
Local employment would also be increased by the economic activities stimulated
by the backward and forward linkages to improved electricity supply. The
Marsyangdi catchment management component could have a special impact because
It is directed towards the most intensive users of the project area's marginal
lands, who are the poorest people and are expected to benefit from improved
land use productivity and jobs induced by the component. They are also most
likely to benefit from job opportunities created by micro enterprises
resulting from rural electrification.
57.     Women in Development.  In addition to the project benefits identified
above, the project's Marsyangdi catchment management component would directly
benefit women (who are largely responsible for both herding livestock and
collecting fuelwood) through land management changes that would increase the
availability of fuelwood and fodder on communal lands and encourage movement
away irom free grazing towards the stall feeding of cattle and through the
promotion of horticulture as an income earning opportunity.
58.     Benefits.  Benefits would include meeting forecast electricity demand
at least cost, resource savings from increased operating efficiencies,
restoration/enhancement of lost capacity and reduced system losses, deferral
of investments due to extension of power plant life and reinforcement of
existing substations, improved reliability and quality of electricity supply,
and NEA's institutional strengthening, particularly in finance, manpower
planning and training. In addition, the Marsyangdi catchment management
component would extend the useful life of the hydroelectric project investment
through developing sustainable approaches to catchment soil conservation and
sediment erosion which could eventually be expanded to other catchments
upstream of other existing and planned hydropower projects. The estimated
economic rate of return for the overall project is 18Z, and 272 for the
rehabilitation of the Trisuli-Devighat plants.
59.     Risks.  No unusual technical risks are foreseen for the project's
power components. The main risks concern project implementation delays and
NEA's continued weak financial performance. These risks have been mitigated
by requiring appointment of supervisory consultants and signature of the
Performance Contract between HKG/N and NEA prior to credit effectiveness;
providing for effective project management by NEA and consultants, and
continued close attention to implementing measures to enhance NEA's cost
recovery. With respect to the remaining components, the major issue concerns
the Marsyangdi-catchnent management soil conservation and sediment reduction
program. The approach used depends on the willingness of farmers to adopt new



- 21 -
land management systems for marginal forest grazing land. Given the pilot
nature of the project, its very modest scale and the fact that other
approaches to soil conservation in Nepal have proved ineffective, the risk is
acceptable.
60.     Recommendation:  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 27, 1992



Schedule A
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costss
Local    Foreign    Total
- - -(USS million)------
A.  Generation Rehabilitation                            3.4       20.2      23.6
B.  HV Reinforcement                                    2.2        12.9      15.1
C.  NEA Infrastructure/Buildings                        2.1         5.5       7.6
D.  Marsyangdi Catchment Management Plan                2.4         6.6       9.0
E.  Industrial Energy Audits                             0.2        2.4       2.6
F.  Consultant Services                                 0.7        11.8      12.5
Base Cost                                          11.0        59.4     70.4
Physical Contingencies                                  2.1         6.8       8.9
Price Contingencies                                      3.4        5.        9.3
Total Project Cost a/                              16.5        7'.1     88.6
Interest during Construction                           11.5                 11.-
Total Financing Required                           28.0        72.1    100.1
a/   The total cost net of taxes and duties (US$ 4.0 million) is
US$ 84.6 million.
Financing Plant
Local    Foreign    Total
---(US$ million)-
IDA                                                     6.3        58.7     65.0
Cofinancing                                              1.3       13.4      14.7
HMG/N                                                   1.6                   1.6
NEA                                                    18.8                  18.8
Total                                                  28.0        72.1    100.1



Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND DISBURSEMENTS
-Procurement Method -             Total
Project Component                ICB      LCB     Other      NA     Cost
--------USS Million--------
Generation Rehabilitation
, ' . ;        - Civil Works                   14.2    3.0                         17.2
(12.7)  (2.6)                      (15.3)
- Equipment                     13.3                                13.3
(12.0)                              (12.0)
HV Reinforcement
- 132 and 66 kV lines and       16.4                                16.4
substation (Turnkey)         (14.8)                              (14.8)
- Spares, Tools, Vehicles                          3.5               3.5
and Equipment
NEA Infrastructure/Buildings
- Civil Works                            2.2       ^.o               3.2
(1.9)                       (1.9)
- Equipment, Vehicles,           3.6               3.0               6.6
Tools                        (3.2)                               (3.2)
Marsyangdi Catchment Plan
- Soil Conservation      )
- Institutional Support )                          4.9               4.9
- Rural Electrification                            3.0               3.0
- Dumre-Besisahar Road                   3.6                         3.6
(3.3)                       (3.3)
Industrial Energy Audits                               3.3               3.3
(2.9)             (2.9)
Technical Assistance                                  13.6              13.6
(11.6)            (11.6)
47.5    8.8      32.3              88.6 a/
(42.7)  (7.8)    (14.5)            (65.0)
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis indicate amounts to be financed by IDA.
a/ Includes duties and taxes estimated at US$4.0 million



Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
DISBURSEMENT
Categ&                    Amount                      Z
(US$ million)
(a) Civil works                       16.0         lOC% of foreign expenditures
and 65 of local
expenditures.
(b) Materials, and selected           29.2         1002 of foreign expendi.:ures
installation works                             (cif).
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 70? of
local expenditures for items
procured locally.
(c) Consultant Services and            7.6         100z.
institution building
(d) Studies and Works                  5.0         1OOX
Unallocated                        7.2
65.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
92      93       94      95       96       97
Annual                             7.8    20.7    17.0    14.3        3.2     2.0
Cumulative                         7.8    28.5    45.5    59.8    63.0    65.0



Schedule C
NEPAL
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare:                Two Years
(b)    Prepared by:                          Government with IDA
assistance
(c)    First IDA Mission:                    November 1989
(d)    Appraisal Mission Departure:          June 1990
(e)    Negotiations:                         April/May 1991
(f)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:        July 1992
(g)    List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:      Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project
(Crs. 600-NEP and 600-1-NEP),
PPAR No. 6177 dated March 8, 1986.



- 26 -
Schedule D
Pge. 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BAK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS >
(As of Decembr 81, 1991)
Amount In US8 miIlion
(lose cancell ltions)
Fiseca                                                                         Undlo-
Credit No.         Year     Borrower                Purpose                  Bank       IDA       bursd
S5 credits have been fully disbursd                                                  377.96
Of which SECAL, SALs and Progrsa  Loans b)
Cr. 1769-NEP     1987      Nepol        Structural Adjustment               0.00     60.00
Sub-Total                                                                0.00     60.00
Cr. 1198-NEP     1982      Nopal        Education 1I                                 14.10        4.11
Cr. 1400-NEP     1984      Nepal        Forestry TT (Tersi)                           7.38        6.52
Cr. 1483-NEP     1984      Nepal        Educotion III (Primary)                       9.61        5.21
Cr. 1476-NE?     1984      Nepl         Power II (Marsyangdi)                       107.00       51.11
Cr. 1S15-NEP     198S      Nepal        Highways III                                 47.50       30.20
Cr. 1534-NEP     196S      Nbpal        Agricultural Manpower                         8.40        6.78
Ce. 135-NEP     1985      Nepal        Industrial Development                        7.50        3.80
Cr. 1570-NEP     1985      Ncepl        Agriculturol Extension II                     7.20        7.16
Cr. 1688-NEP     1985      Nepal        T,lecomunications IV                         22.00       17.31
Cr. 1696-NEP     1968      Nepal        Cottage A Small Industries                   10.00        6.41
Cr. 1715-NEP     1986      Nepal        Narayani Irrigation III                      24.50       22.44
Cr. 1727-NE?     1987      Nepol        Rural Development III                        19.10       19.67
Cr. 1814-NEP     1987      Nepal        Sunsory-morang II                            40.00       26.96
Cr. 1902-NEP     1986      Nepal        Third T.A. (Panchoewar)                      14.40         3.32
Cr. 1922-NEP     19*8      Nepal        Road Flood Rehabilitation                    16.50        13.02
Cr. 1924-NE?     1966      Nep"l        Mahakal  Irrigation II                       41.30       27.10
Cr. 198-NEP      198       Nepal        Municipal Dov Ii Earthquake                  41.50       22.30
Cr. 2026-NE?     1989      Nepal        Hill Coamunity Foroestry                     80.50       29.87
Cr. 2029-NE?     1989      Nepal        Arun III Access Road                         82.80        34.6
Cr. 2044-NE?     1989      Nepal        Engineoring Education                        11.40        11.90
oCr. 2040-NE?     1969      Nepal        Structural Adjustment II                     60.00        22.17
Cr. 2047-NEP     1989      Nepel        Earthquake School Rehab                      22.60       21.20
Cr. 2144-NEP     1990      Nepal        Shairaws Lumbini III                         47.20       49.70
Cr. 2239-NE? c)  1991      Nepal        Urban Water and Sanitation Rehab.            60.00       05.06
Total                                                     0.00   1079.64 d>   507.18 d>
of which has been repaid                                         11.42
Total now held by lank and IDA                            0.00   1068.42
Amount sold
of which repaid
Total undisbursed                                                              507.21
a) No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
b>  Approved during or after FY60.
c> Not yet effective.
d> The prinetpal amounts of MDA credits are shown in US Dollar equivalent at date of negotstions,
as shoen in the Preoident's Report. Undisbured amounts shown In US Dollar equivalent are valued
at th, exchange rate applicable on the date of this statement. In se"o casew, therefore, the
undisbursed bo.'nc. indicates a dollar aount greater than the original principal credit
amout *xpressd In dollars.
*   SAL, SECAL or Program Loan.



- 27 -
Schedu l. D
Pag 2 o1 2
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Ac of Decmber 81, 1991)
Investmet Fiscal                                       Type of             Loan    Equity   Total
Nuber       Year            Obligor                   Business                  (USe Mill1on)
si2        1975     Soelte. Hotel (Private) Ltd.    Hotel                2.70      0.48    3.13
824        1962     Nepal Orind Magnesita            Mine and Proc...
(Privato) Ltd.                  Magnes;to Ore        4.97       -       4.0t
Total Cross Com.itmento                                        7.67      0.43    6.10
Less Cancel lations, tOrQinations,
repoyoent and sales                                            8.38       -       3.86
Total Commitments now hold by IFC a)                           4.29      0.43    4.72
Total Undisbursed ftncluding
ParICIpanCs1 DOrtson;
G>    Exchange adjustment. account for variation in total gross commitments, loes  cancellations,
atc., and total comitmente now held by IFC.



- 28 -
Schedule E
Page 1 of 1
Table 1: NEPAL - KEY INDICATORS, 1987/88-1993/94
_--ACIIAL---   ------PROJECTED--
1987/68  1986/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94
REAL GROWTH RATES:                 |
GOP GROWTH RATE                  I    7.3       a.9      3.6      4.0      3.0      4.0      4.1
PER CAPITA GDP CROWTH RATE       I    4.7       1.8      1.0      1.4      0.4      1.4      1.6
DEBT A DEBT SERVICE
TOTAL DOD */ (IN USS MN.)        I   1109      1281     1480     1662     1844     2047   2278.0
QCD/GDP                          I   33.1      44.6     46.6     50.9    80.6    62.7       67.2
DEBT SERVICE/XOS                 I    7.3       9.1     17.8    18.9    14.9       14.1     13.7
DEBT SERVICE/GDP                 |    1.2       1.4      2.0      2.7      3.0      2.9      2.6
GROSS INVESTMENT/CDP               I   21.4      22.0     20.2    20.9      21.2     21.3     21.4
RESOURCE QAP/GOP                   I   -9.6      -9.9    -10.3    -11.7    -11.1    -10.9    -10.6
GROSS NATIONAL SAVINGS/GDP              12.8     12.3    10.0       6.7      9.9     10.6     11.0
PUBLIC INVESTMENT/CGP                    8.0      8.C      7.2      7.4      7.6      7.7      7.7
PRIVATE INVESTMENT/GOP             I   13.4      13.4    13.0    18.4    13.0        13.6     18.7
GOVERNMiENT REVENUES/CDP           I   10.6       9.9     10.5    10.6      10.9     11.2     11.6
GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES/GDP        I   20.3      28.2     22.2    21.1      21.7     22.8     22.7
DEFICIT(-) OR SURP$S(+)/CDP        I   -9.7    -18.8    -11.7   -10.4    -10.8    -11.1    -11.2
CPI (1980=100)                         236      246.0    273.0   298.7    342.9    377.0    408.6
IMPLICIT GOP DEFLATOR (X CHANGE)         6.9      9.6      9.4      9.1     14.6     10.0      7.0
EXPORT GROWTH RATE (USS NOMINAL)        36.2    -12.1      8.6    83.0    31.0        9.3     10.8
EXPORTS/CDP                        !    6-o       6.4      6.8      7.6     11.8     11.6     11.6
IMPORT GROWTH RATE MUSS NOMINAL)        26.0      1.1      1.7    16.9       0.4      7.1      7.0
IwPORTS/GDP                             20.2     20.6     20.8     24.1     273   27.2        27.2
TERMS OF INDEX (PERCENT CHANGE)         10.8      4.4     -2.2      0.0      0.8      1.9      1.3
CURRENT ACCOUNT (USS MN.)          I
(BEFORE OFFICIAL CAPITAL GRANTS) 1 -207.6  -296.0  -816.0   -380.0   -316.0   -320.0   -386.0
CURRENT ACCOUNT/GOP                I   -8.6      -9.7    -10.2   -12.1   -11.3    -10.7    -10.4
GROSS OFFICSAL RESERYES (IN        I
UMONTHS OF IMPORTS)                    6.3      6.0      6.3      6.0      6.1      6.5      6.6
_ _ _ _ _  _   _   _   _   _   _  _   _~~~~~~~~~I________________________________   _
a/ Medium and long term debt outetending and disbursed.
Soursc: Miniotry of Financo and Staff Estimates.



r             18RD 22331
NEPAL
kf<s  _    - '  \                                                                                            POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PROOSED Of         UNDER
UNDER CONSTRUCTIO,N  INVESTIGATION   EXISTING                                                3X
I-s \ {; * 9                                                                                             EZ        I      E21                      Lorgn Hydro PlcmtS
SS7 EKOT        .                                                                                                                                            *E        Small Hydro Plants
KEAITARI.                                                                                                                                     -A                                                                     - - - ;> Dsiewl Power StStitors
IW  DARCODA 45     t        jIsANO;  .                                                  "- E x                                                                                                                        t       Solar Power Stations
trt%IAR            JR..C                                                                                                                                                                                     Wind Power Stotions
PANCREDWAR  BAJUXA I  R-N    AL                                                                                                     CE                              0   Power TrEaT:fnr Points~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-e,Trrd. Pnt
| h *< >11/v 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K                        A      R      N AiL|>kZ Vsololn
sm'    ~   ~          ~         K A~-~220 kV Troosmissiat Ln.s
PAS%nEEWAo.                                                                                            66.  -   .  32 kV Transmission Lines
E                          -M)U.tA                                                                                                                                              66 kV TrcmsmUESEA  i _,_Li_s
'                                                1HADHELDW  S T E R N    ArHH^  X   I D   ..................................  W  E S T E R N   '  y   .....................------  ------   33 kV Transmission Lines
.000 ~~~~~~~7~?JjM ID                                                        W-E SWfT E RN                                                                                                                                   EnergyTrsfn
5o00rt
T.1A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ds                                                                             Import
t \ Jm >t 2 twJOM30M~~~~~~~~~~~ -  RirWErs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TADUJA   '                                                        i          Or                   a         <        NL%f"'                                                                 Zon --,_oondoe
H  E  R  I ~     ~       ARUl'~                                                                                                                                           Region Bmnosdaies
~~~AANEfl                                                A                     n       la~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iternatiorsa Ba,ndonins
~~~~~~~f                                                                                                                            A--E
R   A           P   T                               E                                                                        V E R N           Now  T                   w
G 3         N   D   A   K   I                                                         WO&SoUko nIEsnnl.s
C IwO      EV-i. PIsonhion. 1lolLCGEP-.
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KARA                                                   R  dESSISAVF <3tfiAR
<                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~A
NE            ALwu ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AtA                                        AMEI      ~      e        TRISULI                                                       =t/EYNU '5)Ig
*                EDO' /    eARI~~~~~~~NG   ~IGHEAT -    7                           NA~~.  )  UU~.
.  .    s   -EX7ll$d@P&       l@dW"EW                                                                                             /                                                        ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X[2.N
. ________________________ ----                                                                                                INil EC  *Ns  8ED -'                                              TATPAPN    WPUrrNnIU
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _/ N                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
_'N'                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAREDOUNU       KVEULERKHANE    mln                                                                                       SAaERal 'tOUjj1, 7
MWU                                                                                                                                                                             'A~~~~~~~~rN~>      -  --'1w  F DCAM
)         I~~~~~~~ ENTPHtg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     , wj
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EAA
se                                            MUZWRA~~~~~~0                                          TO3.   ,,JrIRNEADRP
t.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M~~~~~~~~~~mm'o'r: oD   iso  U  ANGRAR 51199



IBRD 22780
0          2D          40'                
Ietnad the   w2al  nece9
t -- tlSlMEMS 0,s,X# ~~~~~~~~C  H  I N  A                                         u2Sg#un  ontiL
 r t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oeeruymalsnneoito:tC   9sttJtU
*011CC loM
MANANGGCHINA
~~~~~~~ II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
J -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,    - 
MARSYANGD CAC\N PIO PROJECT
MUSTA ICNG  NSEE8S1N  OD
>  Khonserken                                                           \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Co
33  UE khacEDTON AD MIA                                   NANG
Ann                             Charemau
KASKI /- 
-     1/.3 W N ES      P            TOAL   CAPTA
POWER SECTOR EFFICIENCY PROJECT                                                
MARSYANGDI CATCHMEM PILOT PROJECT                           \
PIJKVECOMPCNEN1                  CATC NOAT         \UNa|
K ROD IMPIV`R0Y%0                  MOUNWN TOPS\ 
SElEMRCAMON -CEE              BMW ROAM                                  LAMJUNG              -/
-          3;1 kV LINES               saELKrED TOWNS AND V UAV
_    111635WVUNE              6    NOONA CAP 
suemnoN                   - IrT  BOUNDAISRt
_ ~~~~~~C H I N A                                                                             GORKHA
CHINATAHU 
\_             1                             DJm              To KfhmluTo okho
MARCH 1991



