CREDIT NUMBER 2347 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Sector Efficiency Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     ]L [     \      , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2347 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    p(Y'             , 1992, between KINGDOM
OF NEPAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower is seeking to contract from the Government
of France financing in an amount equivalent to five iillion one
hundred thousand dollars ($5,100,000) to assist in financing Parts
C (ii) and F.2 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Government of France;
(C)   the Borrower is seeking to contract from the Government
of the Federal Republic of Germany a grant in an amount equivalent
to four million two hundred thousand dollars ($4,200,000) to assist
in financing Parts E (i) and E (ii) of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into by the
Borrower and the Government of the Republic of Germany;
(D)   the Borrower is seeking to contract from the Nordic
Development Fund (NDF) a loan (the NDF Loan) in an amount equivalent
to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000) to assist in
financing Parts B.5 and E (iv) of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the NDF Loan Agreement) to be
entered into by the Borrower and NDF;
(E)   the Project will be carried out by Nepal Electricity
Authority (NEA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to NEA part of the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHT2EAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the -Zoregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and NEA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions  Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NEA pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c)   "NEA" means Nepal Electricity Authority, a corporation
wholly owned by the Borrower, established on August 17, 1985 by
virtue of the NEA Act;
(d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NEA, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(e)   "NEA Act" means the Nepal Electricity Authority Act,
1984, an Act providing for the establishment and management of NEA;
(f)   "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean July 16 to July 15; and
(g)   "Investment Program" means NEA's investment program for
the period 1991 to 1997 as agreed upon among the Borrower, the
Association and NEA.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty eight million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 48,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Nepal
Rastra Bank (the Central Bank) on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on October 1 and April 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each October 1 and April 1 commencing
April 1, 2002 and ending October 1, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on October 1, 2011 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿- 5 -
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)   shall carry out Parts D, E (i), E (ii) and E (iii)
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
engineering and financial practices and shall
provide,   promptly   as  needed,   the   funds,
facilities, services and other resources required
for such Parts of the Project; and
(ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause NEA to perform
all its obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all
action,  including   the  provision  of   funds,
facilities,   services  and   other   resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable NEA to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts D, E (i),
E (ii) and E (iii) of the Project in accordance with the Imple-
mentation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
(c)   The Borrower shall relend forty five million Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 45,000,000) to NEA under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NEA, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association which shall
include, inter alia, interest at the rate of 10.25% per annum, a
term of twenty five years including a grace period of five years,
and the provision that the Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange
risk.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit. and except as the Association shall otb-rwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts
A, B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4, C (i), F.1 and G of the Project shall be
carried out by NEA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts D and E (iii) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause NEA to adopt and
thereafter implement, to the satisfaction of the Association, the
insurance program provided for under Section 4.03 of the Project
Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts D and E (iii) of the Project of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than twelve months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account for the Project were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, and, where
appropriate, shall cause NEA to:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
or payment out of the Special Account was made,


﻿-8-
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, in connection with any and
all future on-lending by it to NEA, and irrespective of the source
of the Borrower's funds, undertake to duly enter, and cause NEA to
duly enter, into such subsidiary loan agreements as shall be
required to lawfully and accurately document such future on-lending
transactions.
Section 4.03. The Borrower hereby undertakes to cause all
future projects in the power sector that shall be financed solely
by the Borrower to be included in the Investment Program.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   NEA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situatLin
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that NEA will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿-9-
(c)   NEA Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of NEA to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NEA or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NEA;
(b)   the Borrower   and NEA   have  duly  entered  into  a
performance  contract   whose  terms   and  conditions  shall  be
satisfactory to the Association;
(c)   NEA has employed consultants with terms of reference
and qualifications acceptable to the Association for purposes of
supervising implementation of Parts A, B.1, 3.2, B.3 and B.4 of the
Project;
(d)   NEA has invited contract bids for the provision of
materials and equipment under Parts A, B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the
Project; and


﻿- 10 -
(e)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
NDF Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(aO   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NEA, and is legally binding upon NEA in accordance with
its terms;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NEA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NEA in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   that the Performance Contract has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and NEA and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and NEA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01(a), 4.01(b) and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date twenty five years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Kathmandu, Nepal
Cable address:               Telex:
ARTHA                     2249-NP
Kathmandu, Nepal
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /,OS          PRAAD      (PADHYA/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By            ' D 0  O&EP  wOOD
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit              % of
Allocated         Expenditures
(Expressed in         to be
Category             SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)  Materials,               21,600,000      100% of foreign
equipment and                            expenditures,
related                                  100% of local
installation                             expenditures
works                                    (ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2)   Civil works             11,900,000      100% of foreign
expenditures and
65% of local
expenditures
(3)   Consultants'             5,600,000      100%
services
(4)   Studies and               3,700,000     100%
works under
Part G of the
Project
(5)  Unallocated                5,300,000
TOTAL                    48,100,000


﻿- 14 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
(c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase NEA's power
generating capacity toward meeting projected demand and to
strengthen its financial, managerial, technical and administrative
capabilities, and to generally enhance energy conservation measures.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Existing Hydroelectric
Facilities:
Rehabilitation of the Trisuli and Devighat hydroelectric
plants thrcigh the provision of (i) civil works; and (ii) electro-
mechanical equipment.
Part B:     Reinforcement of HV Transmission System:
1.    Increase of the 66 kV circuit capacity to improve voltage
regulation and reliability.
2.    Upgrading of the 66/11 kV transformer capacity at existing
substations and the construction of two substations in the vicinity
of the load centers in Kathmandu.
3.    Construction of about 5 km of 132 kV line as an intertie
between the Marsyangdi and Kulekhani plants and about 35 km of 132
kV line between Duhabi and Bhantabari.
4.    Reinforcement of the line between Bhakhtapur and New Chabel.
5.    Provision of equipment, spare parts and tools for the Western,
Eastern and Bagmati transmission sections.
Part C:     NEA's Facilities
Provision of (i) materials, equipment and vehicles for
purposes of upgrading NEA's headquarters, workshops and training
center; and (ii) training equipment.


﻿- 16 -
Part D:      Energy Audit Unit
Provision of equipment and consultants' services for the
establishment at the Ministry of Industry of an energy audit unit
for purposes of providing advisory services aimed at assisting local
industries in implementing energy conservation measures.
Part E:     Marsvangdi Catchment Management Pilot Plan
Provision of materials, equipment and consultants' services
for purposes of implementing in the Marsyangdi catchment a pilot
project consisting of (i) a soil conservation and sediment reduction
program; (ii) institutional support to the Ministries of Local
Development and Forests and Soil Conservation; (iii) the upgrading
of the Dumre-Besisahar road; and (iv) the electrification of the
Besisahar area and the vicinity thereof.
Part F:     Technical Assistance
1.    Provision of technical assistance to NEA in the areas of
project implementation and institutional building.
2.    Training of NEA staff.
Part G:     New Hydroelectric Projects
Carrying out of preparatory studies and works for new
hydroelectric projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
The Borrower shall:
(a)    not later than August 31, 1992, establish, within the
Borrower's Ministry of Industry, an energy audit unit and employ a
manager for the said unit acceptable to the Association;
(b)   not later than August 31, 1992, establish a project
office within the Borrower's Ministry of Works and Transport for
purposes of upgrading the Dumre-Besisahar road and employ a project
manager acceptable to the Association;
(c)   carry out an action plan, the terms of which shall be
acceptable to the Association, which shall provide, among other
things, for (i) the remittance by all governmental subscribers to
NEA of all electricity charges billed to such subscribers and
outstanding as of July 15, 1990, and of all electricity charges
billed to the same subscribers during FY91, as shall be outstanding
from time to time; and (ii) the undertaking by all governmental
subscribers to remit all of their electricity charges to NEA within
three months from receiving the bills substantiating such charges;
and
(d)   reimburse NEA, in a manner and pursuant to time
schedules acceptable to the Association, for the annual losses
incurred by NEA after July 15, 1992, in connection with its rural
electrification operations. The scope of the said operations, which
shall be defined and agreed upon between the Borrower and NEA not
later than August 31, 1992, shall be satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 19 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the       Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have


﻿- 20 -
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
;F  RSECRETA


