          Executive Summary
 EnvironmentalImpactsAssessment and
   EnvironmentalmanagementPlanfor
China Inner Mongolia Transport (and Trade
      Facilitation) Project-PO68752




              July 19,2004


 Inner Mongolia CommunicationBureau

                    A. BRIEFDESCRIPTIONOF THEPROJECT

This project comprises (1) 190 km first class highway from Hailar to Manzhouli
toward the national border to Russia, (2) construction of a 8 ha physical distribution
center (PDC) in Haidong Industrial Estate, eastern part of Hailar City, and (3)
Highway Network Improvement Program in Poverty Areas (HNIP), where five road
sections, 430 km in total, will be improved. The EIA and EAP cover all o f these
components.

1.TheHighway Component

The proposed project is one part of the plan of "Five North-South Lines and Seven
West-East Lines" of China's state highways, as well as the important component of
the first west-east line o f Inner Mongolia's plan for "Three West-East Lines, Nine
North-South Lines and Twelve Exits". It is also the main highway section going from
the west to the east planned recently by the autonomous region, as the main
framework of the highways in Inner Mongolia and the main passage connecting
HulunbeierLeague and other provinces and regions inthe east of China. This line is
also one mainline connecting China and Russia.Refer to Figure -1 and2.

The starting point ofthis project is the end of Yakeshi-Hailar Highway and the ending
point is the new Manzhouli Highway Port. The total length of the first grade line in
the recommendedscheme i s 190km, belonging to plain and slight hilly area. The line
goes through Chenbaerhu Town (Bayankuren), Xinbaerhu Zuo Qi, and Manzhouli
City. The connection line with East Wuzhuer is 20km. One 2km-long connection line
i s set up respectively to link with Chen Qi Interchange and Zalainuoer Interchange.
The Construction Scale and the Technical Criteria of the ProposedProject are shown
intheEIA.

According to on-site investigation on the main control points, and on the basis of
consultation with local governments and related departments along the line, five
possible construction alternatives (A,       By C, D, E) have been identified.
Comprehensive analysis in respect for the engineering, economic and environmental
 aspects has been done and this EIA suggested adoption of the Positive Line option,
which is inconsistencewiththe Feasibility Study.

2. The PhysicalDistribution Center Component

 A physical distribution center (PDC) will be set up at Haidong Industrial Estate, 10
km east ofHailar City. The PDC will be used as a truck terminal where importedgoods
 are re-loaded from Russian trucks to Chinese trucks and vise versa because Manzhouli
Port, the secondlargest port in China, does not have enough facilities to changetrucks
 and the Russiantrucks are not allowedto enter Chineseterritory beyondHailar. The total
 land area occupied by the PDC is 24.6ha. The designed handling capacity of the
 Center i s 0.8-1 milliont per year. The construction area of housebuildings i s about
 9,000 m2, including comprehensive offices, various storages (heating warehouse,
 refrigerated warehouse and simple storage), motels and auxiliary facilities, etc. The
 storages shall be ordinary storage with 8m heights piling three-layer of goods. The
 height ofrefrigerated warehouseis 3.6m.
                                             a

The EIA and EMPfor the above two components project were conducted by Chinese
ResearchAcademy of EnvironmentalSciences and have been disclosedto the public.

3. The Highway Network Improvement Program inPovertyArea (HNIP)

Five sections o f about 450 km intotal have been selected among existing highways to
contribute poverty alleviation and trade facilitation. These sections will be upgraded
or rehabilitated. The EIA and EMP o f this component were conducted by Inner
Mongolia EnvironmentalScienceAcademy and have been disclosed to the public.



B.BASELINEENVIRONMENTALDESCRIPTION

The EIA has identified the following environmentally sensitive spots: (1) four
residential areas with 17 to 475 households, (2) one hospital with 260 beds, (3) three
seasonal rivers, and (4) Erka. This area has several wetlands, among which Dalai
Lake Natural Reserve and Huihe River Natural Reserve are designated as protected
areas, The Erka Wetland is not a protected area and its natural condition is not as
good as the protected area, while, Erka Wetland provides good rest stop points for
migrant birds. Erka Wetland occupies 4.6% o f the total wetland area in the region.
The wetland area impacted by the proposed highway accounts for 0.5% of the Erka
Wetland and 0.02% o fthe total wetland inthe region.

The project conducted several alternative analysis to avoid Erka Wetland but no
feasible alternatives have been found because (1) Highway Designing Regulation
does not allow a first grade road to go across cities, just like the existing road does;
(2) the northern bound o f the existing alignment goes through Zalainuoer Mineral
Area, which has very poor underground conditions with many tunnels; (3) The
southern boundis limited space which is only prepared for the railway development.
 (4) The hrther southern area is Dalai Laker National Nature Reserve; and (5) the
only possible alignment is on the north side of the existing alignment, i.e. Erka
Wetland.



C.POTENIAL,ENVIRONMENTALIMPACTSAND MITIGATIONMEASURES

1.Typical EnvironmentalProblemsby Highway

Comprehensive analyses have been conducted for air pollution, noise, and water
pollution, material transportation, solid wastes, construction camps, pollution risk by
dangerous goods, accumulative and indirect impacts, and traffic safety.             EIA
recommended an established set o f mitigation measures for these typical problems
and concluded that these typical potential impacts can be prevented or mitigatedto an
acceptable level inthe light o f national regulations. All the mitigation measures are


                                              2

complied inthe Environmental Action Plan. The EMPalso covers sanitationissue of
construction camps. In addition, the environmental impact and assessment includes
solid waste environmentalimpact,.

2. Ecological Impacts by Highway

In order to improve the quality of assessment, one international and two local
ecological experts were invited to take part inthe surveys. They all agreed that (1)
while the construction of the highway would have some amount of impacts to the
ecological environment, the operation would have little impacts; (2) both impacts
would be mitigated to an acceptable level if appropriate mitigation measures are
taken; and (3) the project can even have positive impacts to the better protection of
Erka Wetland. The proposed mitigation measures include (1) among 190 km of the
highway, 106.5 kmwill beup-gradedfrom the existinghighway and only the 83.5 km
will be newly constructed; (2) at Erka Wetland, eight bridges and ten culverts will be
constructedto reduce impacts to hydrology; (3) no access roads into the wetland will
be made; (4) temporal land occupation will be minimized; (5) horning will be
prohibited and the speed limit will be reduced in the wetland area; (6) the local
government will establish a protection plan of the wetland; (7) eco-tourism will be
promoted to enhance the understanding of people on the protection o f the wetland;
and (8) special ecological monitoring will be conducted during construction period
andthree years inthe operation period.

3. Culturalrelics

Itis notanticipated, but ifany cultural relics are foundduringconstruction, excavationwill
be stopped immediately, and the local cultural authority will be informed of the
discovery. Construction will not resume until the cultural relics have been identified
bythe authorizedinstitutionand necessarypreservationmeasureshavebeentaken.

4. Impactsby the PhysicalDistributionCenter

The PDC is located in the existing Haidon industrial area and there are no
environmentally sensitive spots around there. Appropriate wastewater treatment
facilities including a emergency shutdown systemfor accidentswill beinstalled.



D. PUBLIC CONSULTATION

 A two-stage public consultation was carried out: (a) shortly aRer environmental
 screening and before the terms of reference for the EA were finalized (September
 2003); and (b) after the draft EA report was prepared (November 2003). The
 consultation was conducted by meetings with local people at project-affected towns
 and surveys through questionnaires. Project-affected individuals, organizations of


                                               3

concernedvillagers, andvillage committeeswere intensivelyconsulted.

Apart from the resettlement-related issues, the public showed concerns about social
disruption by expressway, and environmental protection during construction. They
requestedthat adequate mitigationmeasuresbetaken. Their feedback is reflected in
the engineering designs and the EN. The major issues reflected into the project
design is that (1) the number of culverts was increased from 104 to 110 and the
number of pass ways from 30 to 47; (2) budget for rehabilitation of vegetation is
ensured; (3) a dumping site will be movedto behind a mountainso as not to damage
the scenic view.



E.ENVIRONMENTALMANAGEMENTAND MONITORINGPROGRAM

1.EnvironmentalManagement

Environment Action Plans describes the implementation scheme of proposed
mitigation measures. At each level of supervision of construction work, staff in
charge of environment protection will be appointed and necessary training will be
conductedfor those staff     Necessarycost for the implementationwas estimated and
budgetwill be allocatedaccordingly.

2. Environment Monitoring

During the construction and operation phases, environmental monitoring will be
carried out to verify the project's actual impacts on the environment, identify
unexpected environmental problems at an early stage, and adjust environmental
measures as appropriate. Environmental monitoring will be conducted by the
Environmental Protection Office of Inner Mongolia CommunicationDepartment at
construction stage. At operational stage, it will be entrustedto local environmental
monitoringcenters. The results of monitoringwill be reportedquarterlyto the Bank
andlocalenvironment authorities.

Special ecological monitoring will be conducted during the construction period and
the first three years of the operation in order to observe the impacts of the project to
the wetland and to take additional mitigation measures if necessary. The national
independent experts who were involved in the preparation of EIA will be asked to
take part inthe monitoring.

F.CONCLUSION

The construction of Hailar - Manzhouli Highway will have outstanding
socioeconomic benefits and thus have been widely supported by the public. The
routing of highway line is reasonable from the viewpoint of engineering economy,


                                             4

and environment, with the route avoiding cities and towns such as Hailar District,
Bayankuren Town, Zalainuoer Mineral Area and Manzhouli City. Accordingly, the
line has to go through ErkaWetland. Intensive surveys and analysis have conducted
and a comprehensive set of mitigation measures not only to prevent and mitigate
negative impacts but also to improve protection of the wetland have been developed.
Ifthose measuresare implemented appropriately, thenegativeenvironmentalimpacts
by the project will be mitigated to an acceptable level for the society.     Thus,
Environmental Action Planwas preparedto implementthose mitigation measures and
to monitor environmental situation during construction and operation. This EIA
concludes that the proposed project is feasible and acceptable in respect of
environmentalprotection.




                                          5


Figure-1 Map o f Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region


Figure-2 Map ofRoutingLocation ofthe ProposedProject

