Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4765-CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Inner Mongolia Highway and Trade Corridor Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION 
 
Dated May 18, 2005  
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4765-CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated May 18, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and INNER MONGOLIA 
AUTONOMOUS REGION (Inner Mongolia). 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith betw
een People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Inner 
Mongolia agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and  
WHEREAS Inner Mongolia, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Inner Mongolia declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and economic practices, and road safety and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Inner Mongolia shall otherwise agree, Inner Mongolia shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
Inner Mongolia shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
Section 2.03. (a) Inner Mongolia shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto,  Inner Mongolia shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Inner Mongolia, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Inner Mongolia on said plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Inner Mongolia shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b) 
Inner Mongolia shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of Loan, or the performance by Inner Mongolia of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) Inner Mongolia shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project. 
(b) Inner 
Mongolia 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable 
to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02.  (a) Without limitation upon Inner Mongolia’s reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Inner Mongolia shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
Page  6
-
4
-
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall 
cover the period not covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar 
semester. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Inner 
Mongolia thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Inner 
Mongolia thereof. 
Section 4.03. All these provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Inner Mongolia: 
 
Inner Mongolia Communications Department 
No. 68 Dizhiju South Street 
Huhhot 010020 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
0471-6967588 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Inner Mongolia, 
may be taken or executed by the Governor or any Vice Governor of Inner Mongolia or 
such other person or persons as the Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, 
and Inner Mongolia shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  8
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION 
 
By: /s/ Ju Kuilin 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than con
sultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services
)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$400,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $15,000,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions:  
 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be 
those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People's Republic of 
China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People's Republic of 
Page  10
-
8
-
China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for 
compliance with the Guidelines: 
 
(a) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except for civil works contracts that are 
estimated cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper.  Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for 
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and 
submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to 
bidders between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the 
deadline for such submission.   
 
(b) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating 
the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(c) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no limit on the 
number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(d) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or Inner Mongolia, as the case may be, in case 
of breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify 
the required form and amount of such security.   Said security shall be required to 
be furnished only at the time when the bid is submitted and not when the bidder is 
purchasing the bid document. 
 
(e) 
Bidders shall be permitted to submit bids by mail or by hand.  The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such 
bids. 
 
(f) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the 
time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid 
opening. 
 
(g) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of 
“pass/fail” requirements. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
(h) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids established by the 
Borrower or Inner Mongolia, as the case may be. 
 
(i) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and 
resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive 
to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost.  There shall 
be no negotiations with a bidder prior to the award, and the winning bidder shall 
not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not 
stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(j) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their 
accounts and records relating to the performance of the contract and to have said accounts 
and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(k) A 
government-
owned enterprise in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal for the supply of goods and works only if 
such enterprise can establish that it: (A) is legally and financially autonomous; (B) 
operates under commercial law; and (C) is not a dependent agency of the agency 
conducting the procurement. 
 
(l) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
 
(m) 
The successful bidder shall not be required to pay any service fee 
to a procurement agent, employer or purchaser in exchange for being awarded a 
contract. 
 
(n) 
Association with any local firm or firms shall not be a pre-
condition for foreign bidders to be awarded a contract. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Page  12
-
10 -
B. Other 
Procedures
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services for training under Part 
D
of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  13
-
11 -
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or more; (b) each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000; and (c) each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.  All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  14
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1. 
In carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, Inner Mongolia shall: 
(a) 
take, or cause to be taken, all necessary actions to minimize, to the extent 
possible, any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or of income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently;  
(b) 
carry out the EMPs and RAPs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(c) 
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in sub-paragraph 
(b) above to the Bank for its prior approval. 
2. 
In carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, Inner Mongolia shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the EMPs, RAPs and the EMDP; and 
(b) 
prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: 
(i) 
an annual environmental monitoring report, by June 15 of each 
year, commencing June 15, 2006, and until completion of the 
Project; 
(ii) 
by  May 15 and November 15 of each year and until completion 
of the Project, commencing May 15, 2005, an internal 
monitoring report prepared by the appropriate agencies of Inner 
Mongolia on the implementation and impact of resettlement 
activities during the preceding one year or  six-month period, as 
the case may be; and 
Page  15
-
13 -
(iii) 
by March 15 and September 15 of each year and until 
completion of the Project, commencing September 15, 2005, an 
external monitoring report prepared by an independent entity 
acceptable to the Bank on the implementation and impact of 
resettlement activities and the EMDP, during the preceding year 
or six-month period, as the case may be. 
3. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, Inner Mongolia shall prepare and provide to 
the Bank a monthly progress report, in form and content satisfactory to the Bank, on the 
progress of civil works, commencing May 1, 2005, and until completion of the civil 
works. 
4. 
In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, Inner Mongolia shall furnish to the Bank 
for comments, by December 31, 2006, the recommendations of the diagnostic study on 
measures to promote cross-border trade between China and its land-locked neighbors. 
5. 
In carrying out Part D.1 of the Project, Inner Mongolia shall furnish to the Bank 
for comments, by November 15 in each year, commencing November 15, 2005, an 
annual training program for the following year, and, thereafter, carry out such training 
program taking into account the Bank’s comments, if any. 
6. Inner 
Mongolia 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year, 
commencing August 15, 2005, and until completion of the Project, quarterly progress 
reports on the implementation of the Project; 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about February 15 in each year, commencing February 15, 2006, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(d) 
review with the Bank, by May 15 in each year, commencing 
May 15, 2006, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
Page  16
-
14 -
paragraph (c) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.
 
