                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00001699



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-47650)



                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                          PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                        FOR A

       INNER MONGOLIA HIGHWAY AND TRADE CORRIDOR PROJECT



                                     June 29, 2011




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        Currency = Renminbi Yuan (RMB Y)
                     Appraisal
               Effective January 2005
              RMB Y 1.00 = US$ 0.12
                 US$ 1.00 = Y8.28
                    Completion
                Effective June 2010
              RMB Y 1.00 = US$0.14
                 US$ 1.00 = Y 7.25
                  FISCAL YEAR
              January 1 - December 31

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRFT        =     Border Roads for Trade
CAS         =     Country Assistance Strategy
CTT         =     Cargo Transfer Terminal
EA          =     Environmental Assessment
EAP         =     Environmental Action Plan
EIA         =     Environmental Impact Assessment
E&M         =     Electrical and Mechanical
HMH         =     Hailar Manzhouli Highway
HMEMC       =     Hulunbeier Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center
ICR         =     Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR         =     Implementation Supervision Report
IST         =     Institutional Strengthening and Training
IC          =     International Consultant
IMCD        =     Inner Mongolia Communications Department
LACI        =     Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOC         =     Ministry of Communications
MOF         =     Ministry of Finance
NTHS        =     National Trunk Highway System
OED         =     Operations Evaluation Department
PAD         =     Project Appraisal Document
PCI         =     Per Capita Income
PCD         =     Provincial Communications Department
PIC         =     Public Information Center
PMO         =     Project Management Office
QAG         =     Quality Assurance Group
RAP         =     Resettlement Action Plan
RDB         =     Road Data Bank
RMF         =     Road Maintenance Fee
RUC         =     Road User Costs
SDPC        =     State Development and Planning Commission
TAP         =     Technical Assistance Program
TLS         =     Tongda Logistic Service Co. Ltd
VOC         =     Vehicle Operating Cost
     Vice President: James W. Adams, EAPVP
   Country Director: Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                      Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS
   Sector Managers:
                      Vijay Jagannathan, EASIN
Project Team Leader: Simon David Ellis
  ICR Team Leader: Simon David Ellis
                              CHINA
         INNER MONGOLIA HIGHWAY AND TRADE CORRIDOR PROJECT




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 17
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 28
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
  MAPS 33237R and 33238
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Inner Mongolia
Country:                China                   Project Name:             Highway and Trade
                                                                          Corridor
Project ID:             P068752                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47650
ICR Date:               06/29/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 100.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 100.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 100.0M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Inner Mongolia Communications Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/17/2003     Effectiveness:             07/21/2005       07/21/2005
Appraisal:            09/27/2004     Restructuring(s):                           06/05/2007
Approval:             02/15/2005     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2010       06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                                    99                  99
Sub-national government administration                                 1                      1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               33                  33
Trade facilitation and market access                                  67                  67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun                 David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:            Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez             Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:       Simon David Ellis                    Supee Teravaninthorn
ICR Team Leader:           Simon David Ellis
ICR Primary Author:        Alain M. Dube


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the project is to sustain and promote the development of cross-
border trade between China on one hand and Russia and Mongolia on the other by
improving transport infrastructure and logistics. These improvements, in turn, will lower
transport costs, increase income from external trade, and raise incomes in Inner
Mongolia, the country’s third-largest province and one of the poorest provinces of the
western region.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

 (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target   Formally           Actual Value
                                              Values (from      Revised            Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target           Completion or
                                               documents)        Values           Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Reduced travel time along the HMH corridor (min.)
Value
quantitative or   180                       100                               120
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                  12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments          Because of safety issues, the WB requested that reduced speed be implemented
(incl. %          in specific urban area crossed by HMH, hence contributing to the less than
achievement)      anticipated reduction in travel time.
Indicator 2 :     Increased volume of cargo for import/export at the border (1,000 tons)
Value
quantitative or   394.2/43.8                850/100                           12.4/218.9
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                 12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
                  2003 baseline import value (394.2) was significantly overestimated. Actual 2003
                  import volume was 89.3 kiloton. The 86% reduction is related to deteriorating
Comments
                  trade relations between China and Russia including the clamping down on
(incl. %
                  informal trade, the general economic climate, the unavailability of the CTT in
achievement)
                  Hailar and increased travel time between Hailar and Manzhouli during
                  construction works.
Indicator 3 :     Increased tonnage of cargo handled at CTT (1,000 tons)
Value
quantitative or   0                         350                               0
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
                  PAD baseline value is 72 which is obviously an error. Real value is 0 since CTT
(incl. %
                  could not handle cargo in 2003. CTT had not opened at time of writing this ICR.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Increased Cargo Volume (import/export) on railway (1,000 tons)
Value
quantitative or   9180/1820                 12500/2450                        21315/2365
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2003                12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Adjusted import share of trade cargo by mode (RW/HW) (1,000 tons)
Value
quantitative or   95.9/4.1                  93.7/6.3                          99.9/0.1
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments          In addition to the comments formulated in indicator 2, it is suggested that the
(incl. %          2008 high fuel prices has also contributed to the shift from truck to rail for both
achievement)      import and export cargo volume.
Indicator 6 :     Adjusted export share of trade by mode (RW/HW)(1,000 tons)
Value
quantitative or   97.4/2.6                   96.1/3.9                            91.5/8.5
Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2003                 12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments        In addition to the comments formulated in indicator 2, it is suggested that the
(incl. %        2008 high fuel price has also contributed to the shift from truck to rail for both
achievement)    import and export cargo volume.
                Increased AADT on HMH (MTE/day) 1) Hailar-Chenbaerhu 2) Chenbaerhu-
Indicator 7 : Wuzhuer 3) Wuzhuer-Chagang 4) Ghagang-Zhalainuoer 5) Zhalainuoer-
                Manzhouli 6) Manzhouli-Guomen Port
Value                                      1) 6800 2) 4600                     1) 1198 2) 1002
                1) 3300 2) 2400 3) 1800
quantitative or                            3) 3400 4) 2700                     3) 754 4) 487
                4) 1700 5) 3900 6) 1800
Qualitative)                               5) 7500 6) 4000                     5) 1151 6) 230
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
                Baseline values were initially significantly overestimated, hence resulting in
(incl. %
                unreachable target values.
achievement)
                Increased AADT on BRFT (Mte per day) 1) Dayangshu-Baihupai
Indicator 8 : 2) Zhalainuoer-Heishantou 3) Yimin-Andagai 4) Alatanemole-Arihashate
                5) Amugulang-Ebuduge
Value                                      1) 1800 2) 1200                     1) 630 2) 123
                1) 1020 2) 800 3) 820
quantitative or                            3) 1320 4) 430                      3) 314 4) 246
                4) 290 5) 300
Qualitative)                               5) 610                              5) 73
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments
                Baseline values were significantly overestimated, hence resulting in unreachable
(incl. %
                target values.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                           Values (from                              Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                       Revised
                                             approval                               Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                            documents)                              Target Years
Indicator 1 :     % of HMH civil works completed
Value
(quantitative   0%                       100%                                    100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                 12/31/2008                              12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Civil works completed 6 months before deadline.
achievement)
                % of BRFT civil works completed: a) Dayangshu-Baihuapai; b) Zhalainuer-
Indicator 2 :   Heishantou; c) Yimin-Handagai; d) Alatanemole-Arihashate; e) Amulgulang-
                Ebuduge
Value                                   a) 100; b) 100;                  a) 100; b) 100;
(quantitative   a) to e) 0%             c) 100; d) 100;                  c) 100; d) 100;
or Qualitative)                         e) 100                           e) 100
Date achieved 12/31/2003                12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Initial BRFT work program was completed within planned deadlines.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : % of Cargo Transfer Terminal (CTT) completed
Value
(quantitative   0%                      100%                             60%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
                Cargo terminal was completed in October 2008. CTT expansion and
(incl. %
                improvements was completed in October 2010.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : % training program completed (person/months): a) Domestic; b) Overseas
Value
(quantitative   a) 0%; b) 0%            a) 100; b) 100                   a) 100; b) 100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                12/31/2008                       12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : % of study of measures to promote cross border trade completed
Value
(quantitative   0%                      100%                             100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                12/31/2006                       09/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                       IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1     06/22/2005         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     10/05/2005         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.50
  3     06/21/2006         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  10.54
                                                    Moderately
  4     01/16/2007         Satisfactory                                            18.23
                                                   Unsatisfactory
  5     05/21/2007        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   23.07
  6     06/28/2008    Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   81.82
  7   06/25/2009    Moderately Satisfactory      Satisfactory                 97.54



H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The project had a second order
                                                     restructuring to utilize cost
                                                     savings including a reallocation
                                                     of loan savings (2%) and the
                                                     use of the unallocated portion of
                                                     the loan (10%) to finance the
                                                     rehabilitation of the 263
 06/05/2007       N       S       S          23.07   km Genhe-Mangui border road
                                                     for trade. This brought the total
                                                     estimated kilometers
                                                     of rehabilitated road under the
                                                     Border Road For Trade (BRFT)
                                                     component to almost 700
                                                     km from the initial estimated
                                                     length of 400 km.




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of preparation of the Inner Mongolia Highway and Trade Corridor Project, the Bank’s
strategic objective, in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) adopted in November
2002 was to support China’s social and economic development by providing assistance in four
key areas: (i) improving the investment climate (ii) accelerating the transition to a market
economy (iii) addressing the needs of disadvantaged groups and underdeveloped regions (iv)
facilitating a more sustainable development process. Transport infrastructure development, and
particularly in China poorest provinces, was identified as a key area to reach these strategic
objectives.

In this strategic context, the CAS recommends Bank intervention in the following areas of the
transportation sector: (i) financing economic infrastructure in key growth corridors, including
seaport and external trade corridors and corridors serving western provinces; and to reduce inter-
and intra-regional development disparities (ii) financing infrastructure to serve poorer
communities, thereby improving productivity in rural areas (iii) facilitating the development of
institutions necessary for managing and planning the infrastructure network in China’s rapidly
growing market economy.

Exports have played an important role in China’s strong economic growth in recent years.
However, because internal transport costs are high, coastal provinces have benefited more from
this growth than have inland provinces. Costs are high in part because of distance, but also
because of inefficient or inappropriate pricing and weak intermodal logistics. If inland provinces
are to have a meaningful share of China’s booming export trade, access to these provinces must
improve, and constraints on the transportation of goods and services must be overcome.

The government’s transportation policy emphasizes improving access for inland provinces and
fostering the development of trade through lower transport costs and improved logistics services.
This is particularly true for China’s trade with Russia, in which Hulunbeier League in Inner
Mongolia, on China’s north-eastern border with Russia and Mongolia, plays a key role. Border
trade between China and Russia had been growing rapidly and with significant increase in trade
volume expected, and railways badly overburdened, serious consideration must be given now to
investment in transport links and facilities to move and handle cargo in Hulunbeier notably
between Manzhouli, the second largest international land port in China and Hailar.

The project was designed to help meet the sector-related CAS objectives of facilitating trade
(domestic and international), improving regional and market integration, and fostering the
development of western regions, whose development lags behind that of coastal areas.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The main objective of the project is to sustain and promote the development of cross-border trade
between China on one hand and Russia and Mongolia on the other by improving transport
infrastructure and logistics. These improvements, in turn, will lower transport costs, increase
income from external trade, and raise incomes in Inner Mongolia, the country's third-largest
province and one of the poorest provinces of the western region.

The principal outcome or impact indicators selected for monitoring progress in achieving the
project development objective are:
                                                1
    •   For the Hailar-Manzhouli Highway (HMH) and the Border Roads for Trade (BRFT)
        components:
         -    Travel time (projected to be reduced by at least 50 percent after HMH completion)
         -    Traffic volume served by the corridor, especially of trade cargo, projected to
              increase by 100 percent after HMH completion
         -    Share of trade cargo transported by highway will be increased as railway will be
              dedicated for transportation of petroleum imported from Russia. Timber, mineral
              products and other general cargo will have to be offloaded from the overburdened
              rail mode of transport to road, and is projected to be at least 10 percent of total
              trade volume.

    •   For the Cargo Transfer Terminal (CTT) - volume of cargo passing through the CTT
        (projected to increase by factor of four by 2008)

    •   For the Institutional Strengthening and Training (IST) component - improvement in
        efficiency and capacity of local governments to manage the HMH and BRFT
        infrastructure facilities and promote border trade, measured in numbers of staff trained
        who remain in the jobs for which they received training (projected at least half those
        trained).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and Key Performance Indicators remained the same throughout the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project aims to accelerate economic growth and thus improve living standards in Inner
Mongolia and more specifically for the 2.68 million inhabitants of Hulunbeier. The project is
expected to benefit all local populations, including ethnic minority groups, through i) improved
transportation conditions, particularly through the BRFT component, ii) improved employment
opportunities under the project, iii) promotion of better use of natural resources and development
of livestock industries. The major quantifiable benefits are reductions in vehicle operating costs
(VOC) and time costs of road users. Cars and trucks traffic from the HMH and the various BRFT
constitute the majority of the roads user benefits. The non-quantified benefits include a reduction
in traffic accidents and improved accessibility to poorer areas in Inner Mongolia. This improved
accessibility and the new CTT, in turn, will generate both direct and indirect benefits of improved
access to markets, job opportunities, education and health-care facilities.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project includes the following components:

COMPONENT 1—HIGHWAY CAPACITY EXPANSION (US$172.69 MILLION)
Construction of the Hailar–Manzhouli Highway: US$163.38 million
1. Construction of the approximately 177 km Hailar–Manzhouli Highway (HMH) is the
project’s main component. This does not include the 4 km Jalannuer–Manzhouli section built
under a public–private investment scheme, but does include a city road section connecting to the
customs area in Manzhouli. Of the 177 km, 110 km will be reconstructed and widened, and 56

                                                 2
km will be new construction on a new alignment. The last section bypassing Manzhouli will be
also widened to four lanes.

2. The HMH is a divided, four-lane, partially access-controlled highway that could be operated
as an open toll highway if IMCD finally decided to toll the highway. It will include two
interchanges and three toll stations, service areas, and parking bays, as well as facilities for
highway administration and maintenance.

Equipment: US$3.94 million
3. Equipment will be procured for maintaining national and provincial highways (including
expressways) and other lower-class roads. Equipment needed for controlling construction quality
and monitoring and for institutional strengthening will be procured or supplied before civil works
begin and will be financed locally. The equipment list, which includes cost estimates, is available
in the project file.

Supervision of construction: US$5.37 million
4. A supervision team composed of local firms and international consultants and headed by a
chief supervision engineer will supervise the construction of HMH in accordance with FIDIC
provisions.

COMPONENT 2—BORDER ROADS FOR TRADE (US$51.30 MILLION)
5. The Border Roads for Trade (BRFT) component has been designed to connect with ports and
international border crossings to promote trade with Russia and Mongolia and fill in missing links
in the critical road network. Inner Mongolia recognizes that eastern Russia’s and Mongolia’s
trade with countries beyond China conceivably could transit Chinese territory for shipments
through Chinese seaports. Five sections with a total length of about 413 km were selected for
inclusion in the project, of which 71 km will be Class II highway and 342 km will be Class III
roads.

COMPONENT 3—TRADE FACILITATION COMPONENT (US$2.64 MILLION)
6. The trade facilitation component of the project consists of the development of a cargo transfer
terminal (CTT) and a diagnostic study on measures to promote cross-border trade between China
and its neighbors.

CTT (US$2.54 million)
7. The purpose of the CTT is to provide the facilities and services necessary for the transfer of
cargo from Russian trucks to Chinese trucks as well as for the distribution and consolidation of
cargo. The CTT will be developed in phases. The first phase of the proposed CTT is designed to
have the capacity to handle 850,000 tons of cargo per year.

8. The CTT, located in the Haidong Industrial Development Zone in Hailar, will have basic
facilities and utilities such as warehouses (temperature-controlled for conventional products and
fruits and vegetables) cargo handling facilities, office blocks and facilities for truck drivers.
Customs officers, stationed in the Haidong Industrial Economic Zone, will be available to clear
cargo at the CTT. A rail siding provides access to the Binzhou Line (Harbin–Manzouli).

Study on measures to promote trade (US$0.10 million)
9. The diagnostic study will identify measures that will help develop the full potential for cross-
border trade between China, Russia, and Mongolia. These measures will include the development
of infrastructure facilities and transportation network necessary to handle the movement of cargo
between the two countries as well as trade facilitation measures to promote the conduct and


                                                3
development of trade. The trade facilitation component is estimated to cost RMB 22 million
(US$2.64 million) and will be financed locally.

COMPONENT 4—INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND TRAINING
(US$1.17 MILLION)
10. The IST component of the proposed project was designed to improve the efficiency and
sustainability of road sector management in Inner Mongolia and strengthen institutional and
policy development, focusing on logistics arrangements with neighboring countries.

11. A training program under previous projects has started strengthening the capacity of IMCD
and related agencies. The program will build on training begun under these projects without
duplicating it. New courses will take into consideration the activities of the ongoing Inner
Mongolia Highway Project while relating directly to the implementation of project components.
Subjects under overseas training and study tours include development and promotion of
international trade activities, trade logistic planning and management, planning and design of
trade processing zone, and container transport management in additional to the usual and
conventional technical subjects of highway design and project management.

12. The training program will include overseas study tours (36 person-months), training courses
abroad (40 person-months) and domestic courses (294 person-months). It will be updated
periodically during project implementation.

1.6 Revised Components

Component 1 – Highway Capacity Expansion. Maintenance equipment to be procured for
national and provincial highways (including expressways) and other lower-class roads was
cancelled, the client favoring the addition of another road improvement to the BRFT program.

Component 2 - Border Roads for Trade. The BRFT program was modified by a loan amendment
on June 5, 2007, to allow for the “Upgrading and rehabilitation of about 700 km of road sections
identified either as key links for international trade facilitation at smaller border crossings with
the Russian Federation and Mongolia, or as critical missing links in the highway network in
Inner-Mongolia”. This allowed for the financing under the loan of the proposed Genhe-Mangui
263 km road. This increase in total road km was rendered possible by lower than anticipated
initial contract cost for civil works components which were respectively 26% and 19% lower than
PAD estimates for the HMH and the BRFT. These savings and the unallocated portion (US$
10.05 million) of the loan were to be used to finance this additional BRFT as requested in 2006
by MOF and NDRC.

All other components remained the same.

1.7 Other significant changes

Yimin-Handagai BRFT

This substandard road was to be upgraded to class III. However, in 2005, IMCD requested the
road be upgraded to class II, in continuity with adjacent road segments being also class II. This
change resulted in a final construction cost of 230.43 RMBY million which represented an
increase of 161% increase over the PAD estimate.




                                                 4
Reallocation of loan amounts

The request by IMCD supported by MOF for the additional Genhe-Mangui BRFT and the
decision not to apply for variations above 15% for HMH civil work costs led the Bank to agree to
a relocation of savings and the use of the Part 6 (unallocated US$ 10.05 million) of the loan
between various categories. Reallocated amounts included an adjustment of Part A (i) (HMH -
civil works) from US$63.5 million to US$61.5 million and Part B (BRFT - civil works) from
US$18 million to US$30 million.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was predicated on the premise that maximizing the use of transport infrastructure, to
promote international trade through Inner Mongolia, and building additional cargo transfer
facilities, would generate economic development, alleviate poverty and improve the quality of life
in the project area.

The quality at entry is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. This assessment is based on the
following:

Project consistency with Government priorities and CAS: The project objectives were fully
consistent with the government’s priorities and the CAS as set out in Section 1.1 of this ICR. The
project included within its design the improvement of a major transport corridor. The corridor
was designed to serve one of China’s poorest provinces by linking a major land port with key
trade corridors in Western China. The improved links would enhance infrastructure to serve
poorer communities, increase the productivity of rural areas, and improve trade facilitation.

Client Project commitment: Discussions with the Borrower at appraisal and local fund
commitments indicated strong ownership of the project and a very strong interest in improving
trade corridors with Russia and Mongolia and other neighboring provinces of China. The
national, provincial, and local government was very committed to support the proposed highway
because it is a strategic artery to promote trade with Russia. The government of Inner Mongolia
has shown an especially strong commitment to this project. The project is an integral and key
component of the State Council’s plan to expand border trade with Russia through the Hailar-
Manzhouli corridor.

Potential Risks: The project was deemed sustainable with an overall moderate risk rating. A
number of agreements were reached with the Borrower which translated into legal covenants
described in the project agreement. Identified potential risks included 1) the availability of scarce
management resources considering the workload of previously ongoing Inner Mongolia Highway
Project and 2) the transport services and trade facilitation component was a departure from
IMCDs traditional focus on transport infrastructures. Mitigation measures were proposed for
each of the identified risks.

Technical analysis: Much of the analysis related to the design of the HMH was predicated on the
expected increase in trade between Russia and China generated both because of more liberal trade
laws allowing Russian trucks to enter further into China and because of the improved
infrastructure. The technical analysis undertaken during project identification and preparation has
now been shown to be overly optimistic in terms of the assumptions made for generated traffic.
Baseline values (cargo volumes import and export, shares per transport modes) were also
over/underestimated which compounded the problems in estimating target traffic volumes.
                                                 5
Traffic forecasts would have benefited from an external audit by an international expert supported
by independent traffic counts. This may have altered standards of construction for some BRFT
and a different construction approach for HMH. Concerns over the accuracy of the traffic
forecasts led to the downgrading of the rating. The technical and environmental justifications for
the optimized alignment of HMH were found satisfactory, taking into account both possible
bypass of urbanized area, environmentally protected and tourism areas and identified unfavorable
geological conditions for part of the initial alignment. This was an environmental category A
project, hence EIA, public consultations, EAP, RAP were completed, submitted to the Bank,
reviewed and found acceptable and disclosed.

The project was designed taking into account the relevant economic, financial and institutional
factors. For the BRFT, the financial evaluation focused on the availability of sufficient
counterpart funds. More than 1290 million CNY were approved by MOC and the government of
Inner Mongolia for the project prior to its start.

The project was not reviewed for quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group.

2.2 Implementation

The project was implemented fairly smoothly, with the highway, the BRFT and the CTT
completed well within the project timeframe, mostly because of strong commitment by IMCD.

Project implementation was slightly delayed by a series of unforeseeable events (poor weather
conditions) and significant work variations mostly related to i) differences between actual
geological conditions and those adopted in design drawings and ii) modification of the
construction standard from class III to class II for the Yiming-Handagai BRFT. In January 2007,
a moderately unsatisfactory rating was entered for the implementation progress based on slow
loan disbursement and delays in producing reports on work variations. The project was however
considered substantially completed by November 2008 with the exception of the additional
Genhe-Mangui BRFT, added in 2006, which was completed in October 2009 or 8 months before
the loan closing date. Important delays were recorded in reporting the status of cost overruns and
approving variation orders. These delays were mostly related to internal clearance hurdles at
various government levels and between different government agencies.

Management: As proposed in the initial Project Implementation Plan, a sensible project
management and supervision structure was implemented early in the project with sufficient staff
(more than 40) to properly support project activities both at local and central level. Additional
management support and training was provided by an international consultant (IC). This support
was however very minimal and it is suggested that because: i) most international consultant lack
sufficient knowledge of Chinese standards and technical challenges and ii) that construction
quality in China is generally high, IC activities should be limited to specific short term technical
or specialized tasks.

Procurement: Procurement plan were submitted for approval along with relevant contractual
documents for prior review clearance when needed. Civil works, consultants and equipments
contracts were procured early in the project with some of the works (BRFT) being retro-financed
(November 2004 to May 2005). There were no major procurement issues during the project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project was monitored through monthly progress reports for civil works of HMH and
quarterly progress reports for all other components. An annual monitoring report was developed
                                                 6
covering all components and assessing the extent to which various implementation and
development objectives were achieved. Annual accounts for the project for each fiscal year were
audited by independent auditors and reviewed by the Bank’s task team.

The project design adopted a series of physical targets for measuring progress. The outcome
indicators were selected so that they were meaningful, and the data was available or could be
reasonably collected and reliable. Baseline value estimates for traffic on HMH were made on the
basis of routine traffic counts and a comprehensive origin and destination (OD) survey that took
place on June 2001 (updated on October 2002 and December 2003). Those forecasts were further
reviewed and confirmed by an independent transport institute in Beijing to review regional
transport demand and traffic on this highway corridor. The selected M&E indicators were
appropriate although both baseline and target values for the indicators proved to be either
incorrect or overly optimistic. As shown in the client ICR (Annex 7) other indicators such as per
capita income growth and passenger increases were also monitored to evaluate the benefits of the
BRFT on poverty reduction.

Bank review missions were organized regularly to monitor progress and quality of work on site
and to provide advice and support on overcoming difficulties and issues arising from project
implementation.

In retrospect, and considering external influences of the economy and trade relations, cargo
volumes and ratios between various transport modes proved inconclusive in evaluating the project
contribution of the project transport investments in poverty reduction.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment: The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessments of
development projects in China were followed, as were the Bank’s OP 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment. During preparation, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and EMP were
reviewed and found satisfactory. Environmental impacts and mitigation measures were fully
considered during project design, construction and operation phase. A particular emphasis was
given to the Erka Wetlands (see Box below).

The potential environmental impacts anticipated in the EIA report include noise and air pollution
during the construction and operation phases, water flow disruption, water pollution and soil
erosion during the construction phase. A framework including environmental management and
supervision organizational setup, monitoring approach and methodology, and institutional
strengthening and training was established to ensure smooth implementation and quality
performance. Considerable efforts were made to follow the EMP, and to mitigate and monitor the
project’s adverse impacts. The mitigation measures taken include appropriate alignment selection,
road crossing, bridges and culverts, drainages, slope protection and greening work, and
restoration of disturbed areas etc.

Hulunbeier Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center (HMEMC) was entrusted to conduct
environmental monitoring for the project during the construction and operation phase.
Environmental monitoring was carried out regularly, in compliance with the EMP
recommendations. HMEMC conducted a detailed survey on the areas disturbed by construction,
including borrow sites, spoil disposal sites, quarry sites and temporarily occupied sites, side
slopes, and recorded the location, area, type, status and restoration measures adopted, name of
contractors, etc. HMEMC concluded that all the disturbed areas were satisfactorily restored after
the construction activities were completed.

                                               7
Public consultations and information disclosure were a continuous process during the entire
project cycle. Total expenditure on environment protection and water and soil conservation was
estimated to be about 16.41 million CNY or 1.62 percent of the total project cost. No unforeseen
environmental problems arose during project implementation.

Based on the factors mentioned above, environmental safeguard performance was concluded as
Highly Satisfactory.

 THE ERKA WETLANDS
 The Erka wetlands are an internationally important nesting area for several species of birds, including
 the red-crowned and white-naped cranes, great bustard, swan goose and greater spotted eagles. It is
 adjacent to the Russia-Mongolia-China Dauria International Protected Area (DIPA) which was
 founded at the junction of the borders between Russia, Mongolia and China on March 29, 1994 and
 combines four specially protected nature areas in those three countries.

 During appraisal and implementation, there were a number of critics of the project who were
 concerned that building a freeway could carve a bird-free corridor through rich marshland. The WB
 environmental specialist and a bird expert had agreed that the EMP include a six-year special
 ecological monitoring.

 In the spring of 2010, the same expert visited the site and noted the following: “Found a rich wetland,
 with good numbers of water birds, including some that were pretty much right next to the highway”.




 Disruption of the waterflow through the Erka wetland was also a concern and this led to a
 recommendation of widening bridges and culverts including the main bridge over the Hailar River.
 These recommendations were followed by IMCD and during the latest 2010 visit no such disruption
 was apparent, nor does it appear the highway had affected the water flow based on recent Landsat
 images.


Social: Project resettlement was fully implemented. With complete implementation of the RAP,
all the affected people were informed and consulted, and were to some extent participating in
relevant resettlement decisions and specific actions. All the affected households have restored
their housing, with better quality than before relocation as well as better surrounding
environment. All the land was fully compensated and the livelihood of the affected is restored.
The affected infrastructure and public facilities are fully paid and restored.

Based on the evaluation of the monitor as well as the continuous site visits and observation of the
mission, it is concluded that the RAP and related resettlement implementation of the project is
satisfactory, and that the resettlement objective of improving the livelihood of the project
affected people after resettlement implementation was met.

                                                    8
Fiduciary compliance was satisfactory. The procurement carried out under the project was in
compliance with Bank policies and procedures. There were significant delays in preparing and
approving variation orders and reporting status of cost overruns. Considering the importance of
these changes, counterpart’s funds availability of counterpart funds also resulted in delays in
contractor payments. Project financial statements were prepared in the format agreed with the
Bank. The audited project financial statements, as required by the legal agreements, were
submitted to the Bank on time.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Hailar-Manzhouli Highway: Following the final inspection in 2007, the operation of the
highway was transferred to the Hulumbeir Highway Administration Bureau (supervised by the
Eastern High Class Highway Management Division) which is conducting appropriate
maintenance operations. The one year defect liability ended in November 2008, and a 2010 site
visit confirmed the highway has been well operated and maintained. Toll revenue for the HMH
has been scarce and will not be sufficient by 2012 to meet loan payments unless a significant
increase in traffic volume materializes. Considering the low traffic volume on HMH (see Annex
2), it was not deemed necessary at this time to procure and install weight stations on the highway.
It is however recommended that a new assessment of toll rates versus predicted traffic volume be
done in order to maximize both toll revenues and the operations of the Hailar CTT. IMCD will
continue to monitor traffic volume at toll stations as a routine operation.

Border roads for trade: The BRFT rehabilitated or improved by the project are now under
regular maintenance schemes.

Cargo transfer Terminal: The initial CTT construction work was completed in October 2008.
The infrastructure was however plagued with several problems which were related to poor design.
Hence in October 2008, Hulumbeir Transport Management Division (HTMD) decided to move
forward with the privatization of the CTT to Tongda Logistic Service Co. Ltd (TLS). This
company aside from promoting the CTT to transport companies and potential clients was
mandated to improve the existing infrastructure based on their future clients needs. TLS also
planned to undertake a first phase expansion of 6300m2 that was to be followed in 2010 by a
second phase 4500 m2 expansion. CTT operations had not started at the time of writing this ICR
and on its own is unlikely to have any significant impact on the traffic volumes using the HMH.
An easing of restrictions on allowing Russian trucks to travel farther inland to the Hailar CTT
will also be important for the CTT to become a transport hub. Both cargo and traffic volumes
should be monitored to optimize these infrastructure investments.

On the Institutional Development side, all training program were completed and contributed
positively to the project success. The overseas training program was reduced because of delays in
getting travel visas; however the domestic training program was significantly sized-up. The trade
facilitation study was successfully completed but IMCD will need to continue an open dialogue
with the other government agencies involved in trade, if there is to be improvement in optimizing
trade with neighboring countries.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives were clear and in accordance with the long term development goals of the
Government of China. They remain in line with the May 2006 CPS, which reflects the Bank’s
strategic objective to foster growth, reduce poverty, encourage good governance and improve the
                                                9
environment, as well as support China’s development agenda by infrastructure improvement.
The objectives of this project also conform with the Chinese government’s strategy, including
poverty and regulatory reforms with special attention to financing issues and ensuring efficient
fund utilization; the development of all-weather roads to remote/low income areas in poor
counties; and the rapid development of highway network including provincial roads feeding into
the system.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The main objective of the project is to sustain and promote the development of cross-border trade
between China on one hand and Russia and Mongolia on the other by improving transport
infrastructure and logistics. These improvements, in turn, will lower transport costs, increase
income from external trade, and raise incomes in Inner Mongolia, the country's third-largest
province and one of the poorest provinces of the western region.

The project outcome is rated as moderately satisfactory based on having achieved satisfactory
outcomes on most components of the project, including implementation of the trade facilitation
component, general borrower performance, and the overall partial achievements in meeting the
project development objectives as outlines in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).

Project outcome is rated moderately satisfactory specifically for the following reasons:

A. Improved trade between Inner Mongolia, Russia and Mongolia through improved
   transportation capacity and improved trade facilities in Hulunbeier.

The HMH has enhanced the overall transport capacity (cargo and person) and mobility between
Hailar and Manzhouli, a major land port with Russia in the northern part of China.

The completion of the HMH has provided a high grade transport infrastructure between Hailar
and Manzhouli, a major land port in northern China, linking hub cities within this region to
neighbouring Russia. Travel time (-30% or 60 minutes less) and distances have been reduced on
this main highway of the Hulumbeir banner, thereby reducing vehicle operating and transport
costs.

The HMH did not succeed however in promoting additional trade with Russia which actually
shows an overall decrease of 16% for imported/exported cargo volume by road between 2003 and
2009 (see annex 2 for details). It is considered that several events contributed to this lack of trade
benefits from improved access to Manzhouli. During the implementation of the project,
hardening trade relations between China and Russia including the clamping down on informal
trade, the general economic climate, and the lack of availability of the CTT in Hailar have all
contributed to this situation. These events also resulted in significantly less than anticipated
traffic volume (-83%) for which initial estimate were also too optimistic (over 200%). It is also
believed that travel delays during the civil works on HMH and the elevated fuel price of 2008
may also have contributed to a favorable shift from truck to rail cargo transport as shown by the
56% increase in cargo volume by rail between 2003 and 2009.

Nevertheless, it is anticipated that once i) trade relations with Russia improves; ii) the overall
economic climate become positive and iii) the full potential of the Hailar CTT comes to fruition,
trade and traffic volume on the HMH should increase significantly.

Through the BRFT, missing or less performing transport links were upgraded to promote trade
with Russia and Mongolia. These improvements succeeded in reducing travel time and vehicle
                                                 10
operating costs. Benefits for these upgraded links also included better access for local
populations to trade markets, health and education facilities and in the case of the Genhe-Mangui
BRFT more efficient access to prevent and fight forest fires.

B. Enhanced public sector management and trade facilitation training

The capacity of the highway sector entity—the IMCD—improved during the implementation of
the project through domestic and overseas training, study tours and execution experience which
gave the IMCD staff exposure to new concepts and opportunities to learn new practices and
technical approaches. The training covered a wide range of subjects related to highway
construction, supervision, maintenance and management, financial management, project
management, toll management, trade facilitation, human resources and auditing, procurement,
environmental monitoring, resettlement and compensation. The overseas program was reduced
due to delays in obtaining travel visas while the local program was significantly sized-up.
Overseas training reports were prepared by trainees and submitted to the Science and Education
division of IMCD Human Resources department for potential development opportunities and
dissemination. Trainees were expected to disseminate findings at domestic seminars and
workshops and some are maintaining contact with specialists abroad.

A trade facilitation study followed by an international trade workshop in Russia was also
conducted although it is unclear how the findings from these visits were integrated in daily
practices or ended up in changes to trade policies. The report is well organized and clearly
illustrates the increasing demand for the new Highway, border crossing infrastructures and the
cargo transfer terminal (CTT) facility as well as the training requirements. The report however
fell short of addressing major trade issues such as intermodalism, trade programs and CTT
operations, infrastructures compatibility and regulations between trade partners. In order to
elaborate on some of these trade issues, a study tour to Russia was completed in August 2009 to
improve knowledge of logistic provision and to support trade dialogue between the two countries.

The project also provided for the procurement of laboratory equipments for which IMCD’s staff
was trained.

3.3 Efficiency

Economic Internal Rate of Return

The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the HMH and the border roads for trade
components is lower than the estimated at appraisal stage. The EIRR for the HMH is estimated at
0.8%, compared to the PAD estimate of 15.7%. The EIRR for the border roads for trade
component is estimated at 10.2%, with values ranging from 1.0% and 19.5%. This compared to
an EIRR value in the PAD of 21.3%, ranging from 16.3% and 28.7% at appraisal. The table
below summarizes the results of the economic analysis.




                                               11
             Economic Evaluation Summary
                                                          PAD        ICR      Difference
             Component       Road Section                 Estimate   Actual   (%)
             HMH             Hailar - Wuzhour             20.5%      4.1%     -80%
                             Wuzhour - Jalainur           13.5%      -0.1%    -101%
                             Jalainur - Manzhouli         10.7%      0.2%     -98%
                             Subtotal                     15.7%      0.8%     -95%
             BRFT            Dayangshu - Baihuapai        28.7%      19.5%    -32%
                             Zhalannuoer - Heishantou     16.3%      6.0%     -63%
                             Yiminsumu - Handdagai        17.3%      5.8%     -66%
                             Alatanelemo - Arihashate     23.6%      7.7%     -67%
                             Amugulong - Erbuduge         20.4%      1.0%     -95%
                             Subtotal                     21.3%      10.2%    -52%
             Overall
             Project                                      17.0%      3.8%     -77%

The combined EIRR for the entire project is estimated to be 3.8%, compared to an EIRR at
appraisal of 17.0%. The decrease in the EIRR is mainly because of the much lower than estimated
traffic volumes on all sections of the HMH as well as on the border roads for trade and the higher
than estimated (at appraisal) project costs. Traffic volumes in 2009 on HMH are around 86%
lower than the ones estimated at appraisal and on the border roads for trade are around 48%
lower. The actual project costs of HMH is around 17% higher than the appraisal estimates, while
the actual costs of the border roads for trade is around 47% higher.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This assessment is based on a review of achievements for the two main objectives given in
section 3.2 and the economic and financial returns presented in section 3.3

Although several key performance indicator benchmarks were not met, it is believed that over
time the expected traffic will emerge. For example, in less densely populated areas such as Inner
Mongolia, traffic is not induced by local population motorization. It is rather a function of
economic activities which were negatively impacted by several factors in 2008 and 2009. As
previously mentioned in chapter 3.2, economic activities and trade with Russia have slowed in
2008 and 2009. The increased travel time during construction and the fuel price surge of 2008,
also contributed to a shift from road to rail cargo transport.

Improved trade infrastructures of good quality were built and are in place and ready to fulfill their
objectives. Proper maintenance is being performed on the HMH.

Ex-post EIRR is 3.8% lower than the initial 17%. Although this is a positive return, it is not
sufficient to make this investment economically viable. HMH will not generate sufficient
revenues from toll to cover the loan reimbursement; hence IMCD will need to use a small portion
of its own budget to repay the investment.

The project remains highly relevant. It has contributed in implementing infrastructure that will
promote trade at the national, provincial and rural level. IMCD has acquired new insights into
trade facilitation measures, policy and possible reforms.




                                                 12
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Rating: Satisfactory

Although not classified as a “poverty reduction project”, the project had a poverty alleviation
dimension through the Border Road for Trade program component as follows:

        ◊        Accessibility to poor counties and townships and other villages, have been
                 increased by improving about 690 km of local roads (60% more than the original
                 program);
        ◊        The reliability, the vehicle operating cost and the travel time were all
                 significantly improved for all the BRFT, hence allowing easier access for local
                 population to markets, health and education facilities;
        ◊        Growth in economic activity and per capita income as provided in the Client ICR
                 (see Annex 7) in the BRFT area was positively impacted.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The institutional development impact, defined as the extent to which the project has improved the
IMCD’s ability to make optimal use of its human and financial resources is rated as moderately
satisfactory. As described in Section 3.2, there were two main areas of focus: i) Training
programs and ii) a Trade facilitation study. Although the training program was successful, it was
felt that the diagnostic study designed to identify measures to help develop the full potential for
cross-border trade between China, Russia and Mongolia fell short of loading to the
implementation of effective solutions.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The project aimed at promoting trade by improving the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the
transport infrastructure to support the social and economic development of the Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region. The risk that the development outcome will not be reached is moderate for
the following reasons:

    ◊   The physical investments have resulted in good transport infrastructure for the HMH, the
        BRFT and the CTT that are being used for the benefit of the targeted population;
    ◊   Traffic in these corridors, although significantly lower than anticipated, will grow with
        reduced vehicle operating costs and fewer accidents once there has been an improvement
        in the overall economic environment;
    ◊   BRFT have shown a positive impact on per capita income for the various regions they
        serve and this increase is expected to be sustained.
                                                13
Considering the overall quality of civil works for HMH and the BRFT, routine and periodic
maintenance budget will be reduced, and is considered to be at sustainable levels since it do not
represent a significant portion of IMCD’s total revenues (less than 2%), even though user charges
are significantly lower than anticipated.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
 Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank’s Quality Assurance Group did not review the project for quality at entry.

The task team ensured that the project objectives were consistent with the Government of China
and Bank’s strategies. The project components, both physical and institutional, effectively
addressed the major issues identified in the CAS and the Governments five year plan. The Bank
team was led by an experienced highway engineer and included specialists covering environment,
social/resettlement, economics, rural roads, highway engineering, institutional strengthening, and
international trade regulations. Potential risks were identified. Project components were well
defined and optimized. The Bank’s safeguards policies and rules were followed. However,
several technical issues (baseline values, traffic forecast, geological surveys) were insufficiently
scrutinized which led to the moderately satisfactory rating above. Preventing such issues will
require more thorough verifications, especially in less densely populated provinces in China. If
any doubt arises from the validity of data, an independent international audit by a specialist is
recommended. Related to this has been the problem that the PDO indicators were set too high
because they related to impacts that were beyond the control of the project such as trade relations
between China and Russia and the general economic climate.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank’s supervision is rated satisfactory. Over the duration of the supervision phase the
project had three different task team leaders (TTL). The first one was responsible for preparation
of the project appraisal; loan and project agreement between 2003 and 2005. The second TTL
was responsible for the first 2 years (2005-07) of implementation, while the third one supervised
the final three years of implementation, closed the project and led the project evaluation. The
TTL management transition went relatively smoothly, with previous TTL providing support and
advice to the next one.

The Bank’s policies and procedures were applied consistently. World Bank missions were
conducted in a professional and constructive manner. Mission teams included experts needed to
discuss relevant supervision topics and issues. The timing of missions (on average twice a year)
was appropriate and comments received from IMCD staff indicated a respectful working
relationship and flexible approach by Bank staff. Aide Memoires, Management Letters, ISRs and
other project communications and documents were completed in a timely manner with clear
references to needed actions covering all aspects of project component, safeguards and fiduciary
issues.




                                                14
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The rating for overall Bank
performance is based on the moderately satisfactory quality at entry and the satisfactory quality of
supervision. Although the project was highly relevant with the CAS, some technical aspect
(traffic forecast, cargo volume forecast and geological surveys) of the project would have
benefited from an independent audit which could have led to design changes that would have
contributed to a more successful project. The supervision team paid adequate attention to
compliance with the Bank policies on environment and resettlement. The advice of the
preparation and supervision team was appreciated and generally followed by the borrower.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The satisfactory performance is based on the commitment of both the central and Inner Mongolia
government to i) support the project throughout its implementation, ii) to deliver within the
agreed deadlines good quality reports and project outputs; and (iii) show strong and continuous
commitment to complete all project components, including the CTT and institutional
development components.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing agency
Inner Mongolia Communications Department (PMO)

The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. IMCD demonstrated continuous
commitment to achieving the project objectives, including not only construction, but also
institutional development through project financed studies, workshops and training programs.
Construction of the HMH, BRFT and CTT was completed in due time and the quality of the
engineering work was high. Recommendations made during the missions and field visits were
taken into account.

As in the previous Inner Mongolia Highway Project, significant variations orders and cost
overruns led to some delays in the approval procedures of IMCD. It is reiterated, in this ICR, that
to avoid long delays in the approval of contract changes and the resulting payments to
contractors, Inner Mongolia will need a simplified, yet efficient internal clearance procedure and
a streamlined approval process between multiple government agencies.

This satisfactory rating is also based on the excellent communication lines between IMCD and
the Bank, and between IMCD and other government agencies (MOC, MOF, etc) involved in the
project which helped solve issues arising during project implementation in a timely fashion.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. This is based on the ratings of the
government and the implementing agency and also considering that all the original civil works
                                                15
and institutional components were completed and most project outcomes are deemed to be
sustainable considering once: 1) trade relations between Russia and China improves; 2) the
overall economic situation recovers; and 3) the full potential of the Hailar CTT comes to fruition,
trade, traffic volume and toll revenues on the HMH should increase significantly.

6. Lessons Learned

International independent audit of current traffic volumes and projected traffic growth.
This project has highlighted the optimistic estimation of current traffic and estimated traffic
growth; a major economic factor in the evaluation of the viability of transport infrastructure.
Although this issue is seldom raised in previous ICR, it is often the subject of discussions with
the Bank’s client at project identification and appraisal. The PAD does mention traffic counts,
Origin/Destination survey, and even an independent review of forecast by a transport institute in
Beijing. Hence it is difficult to explain the significant difference (83% lower) between traffic
forecast and actual traffic. It is recommended that new projects in low population density areas
such as the northern provinces of China, would benefit from an independent international audit of
actual and forecasted traffic, supported by an independent traffic count. Based on audited traffic
results at identification and appraisal stages, the Bank Team would be better equipped to discuss
design standards and construction approach.

Reduced and more focused use of international supervision consultants for shorter, more
specific or specialized technical tasks. The contribution of the international consultant (IC) was
mainly related to project management support and training. This support was however minimal
and it is suggested that because: i) most international consultants lack sufficient knowledge of
Chinese standards and technical challenges, and ii) construction quality in China is generally
high, IC activities should be limited to specific short term technical or specialized tasks.

Climate changes and Improved Geological / Hydrogeological surveys at design stage. With
current trends in climate change, we are prone to see unusual weather conditions such as
prolonged heavy rain. This situation coupled with insufficient geotechnical information could
lead to an increase in unfavorable soils conditions. Current boreholes (500 meters apart) intervals
needs to be adjusted based on soil variation and it is suggested the geotechnical survey standards
be upgraded to take into account the climate conditions of China’s Northern provinces. In these
provinces frost penetration in road structure and subgrade can create important damages which
are all well documented in the current international geotechnical literature. Proper soil
compaction or consolidation, adequate drainage and sufficient insulation must all be considered at
design stage in order for a road to survive long winters. Design of projects should also take into
consideration climate changes which could mean higher rainfall and colder winter temperatures.

Further efforts needed to overcome institutional barriers and achieve better coordination
across department involved in road transport. The inclusion of reform or policy related issues
within a project often face problems because their implementation often falls outside the
jurisdiction of the implementation institution. This is the case for the trade facilitation component
for which most of the discussion and work needed to be done at the national level. In the Inner
Mongolia Highway and Trade Corridor Project, this situation was present in the elaboration of the
trade facilitation study and the implementation of its recommendations. Road and CTT as trade
vectors are locally built and managed, while trade policies that can significantly affect their
performance are managed at the national level. There is no single recipe for achieving such
coordination, but it has been demonstrated in previous projects that the establishment of multi-
agency coordination teams have been the key to successfully address these challenges.


                                                16
Simplified internal clearance procedure for variation orders. Internal delays in the approval
of variation orders have led to late payments to contractors, hence delays in finalizing contracts.
A simplified yet efficient internal clearance procedure in Inner Mongolia is needed to streamline
the approvals process between agencies to avoid long delays. Such a process could be based on a
two step approach: The first step being an authorization to perform the work based on technical
justification and a work cost estimate, while the second step is a final consent that includes final
cost approval based on the agreed price with the supplier/contractor.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

IMCD has reviewed the ICR and found the content to be acceptable. They indicated a number of
editorial changes which have been reflected in the text.

(b) Cofinanciers

NONE

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

NONE




                                                17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                                                                                   Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                                                                     Appraisal
                                                       millions)
1) Construction of the Hailar-
                                                                       172.69                            214.53                            124%
Manzhouli Highway
2) Border Roads for Trade                                                51.30                           117.02                            228%
3) Cargo transfer terminal and
                                                                           2.64                              4.93                          172%
trade facilitation program
4) Institutional strengthening and
                                                                           0.67 *                            0.39                           58%
training

                    Total Baseline Cost                                227.30                             336.87                           148%

Physical Contingencies                                                   20.75


Price Contingencies                                                        5.93

              Total Project Costs                                      253.98                             336.87                           133%
Interest during construction                                             8.18
Front-end fee IBRD                                                       0.50                               0.50                           100%
      Total Financing Required                                         262.66                             337.37                           128%

* Project appraisal estimate for component 4) of 1.17M US$ included a 0.5M US$ for equipment already included in 172.69M US$ of component 1).




 (b) Financing
                                                                               Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                                   Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
                 Source of Funds
                                                                 Cofinancing     (USD        (USD        Appraisal
                                                                               millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                                    162.66      237.37        146%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                                        100.00                  100.00                   100
and Development




                                                                              18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                                     Planned        Actual
  Project
                                                                    results for    results on
Development                Monitoring Indicators
                                                                       2009       completion    ICR/PAD
 Objectives
                                                                   (PAD 2005)        (2009)
               HMH corridor performance
               Reduced travel time                                 100 minutes    120 minutes    120%
               AADT of Hailaer-Manzhouli (MTE)
               Hailaer-Chenbaerhuqi                                   6800           1198        17.6%
               Chenbaerhuqi-Wuzhuer                                   4600           1002        21.8%
               Wuzhuer-Chagang                                        3400            754        22.2%
               Chagang-Zhalainuoer                                    2700            487        18.0%
               Zhalainuoer-Manzhouli                                  7500           1151        15.3%
               Manzhouli-port                                         4000            230         5.8%
               Increased cargo volume at the border
               Cargo volume - highway (1000t
               Import                                                  850           12,4         1.5%
               Export                                                  100          218,9       218.9%
   Promote     Total                                                   950          231,3        24.3%
     trade     Cargo volume - railway (1000t
 expansion by Import                                                 12500          21315       170.5%
   providing   Export                                                 2450          2365        96.5%
  convenient Total                                                   14950          23350       156.2%
transport and Share by mode of Import/Export (%)
relevant trade Import-Railway                                          93,7          99,9%      106.7%
  facilitation Import-Highway                                           6,3           0,1%        0.9%
               Export-Railway                                          96,1          91,5%       95.2%
               Export-Highway                                           3,9           8,5%      217.2%
               Cargo processing at CTT 1000T                           350              0          0%
                                                                     Planned        Actual
                                                                    results for    results on
                 BRFT performance
                                                                       2008       completion
                                                                   (PAD 2005)        (2008)
                 AADT on BRFT (MTE per day)
                 Dayanshu-Baihuapai                                   1,800          630         35.0%
                 Zhalainuoer-Heishantou                               1,200          123         10.3%
                 Yimin-Handagai                                       1,320          314         23.8%
                 Alatanemole-Arihashate                                430           246         57.2%
                 Amugulang-Edbuduge                                    610            73         12.0%
                 Genhe-Mangui *                                        N/A           N/A          N/A
 * The Genhe-Mangui road was added to the BRFT component in 2006




                                                         19
                                                                    Planned         Actual
   Intermediate                                                    results for     results on
                                  Monitoring Indicators
      Results                                                      2009 (PAD      completion
                                                                     2005)           (2009)
Component 1 : HMH
improved capacity         Progress of work completed (%)              100%            100%
Component 2 : BRFT
improvement to handle
increasing traffic volume Progress of work completed (%)              100%            100%
Component 3 : CTT
construction and trade
facilitation              Progress of work completed (%)              100%            100%
                          Domestic trained staff (person-months)       294             454
Component 4: Built up
                          Overseas trained staff (person-months)       76               28
institutional capacity
                          Diagnostic study (%)                        100%            100%

Component 1: HIGHWAY CAPACITY EXPANSION – (PAD estimate US$172.69 million,
ICR actual: US$214.53 million)

a) Construction of the Hailar-Manzhouli Highway – (PAD estimate: 177km - US$163.38
million, ICR actual: 178.73km - US$210.41 million)

The 190.98-km Hailar-Manzhouli Highway (HMH) has been designed as a four-lane, partially
access-controlled highway that could be operated as an open toll highway. It also included two
interchanges and three toll stations, service areas, and parking bays, as well as facilities for
highway administration and maintenance.

Civil works started in May 2005 and was substantially completed by November 2007, or about 6
months before the scheduled May 2008 initial operation date. The HMH included a 12.25 km
section financed by private funds; hence the WB funded highway section was 178.73km.

This project component included a challenging 6.8 km highway construction into the Erka
wetland. Despite various unfavorable geological and weather conditions (heavy rain in the
summer and short construction season), which later translated into significant work variations and
cost increases, the quality of the final work was rated very good.

Important delays were recorded in approving variation orders and reporting status of cost
overruns. This situation was mostly due to slow and stringent internal clearance procedures

Final cost (including land acquisition, resettlement and environmental protection costs) of the
highway is US$210.41 million which represents a 29% increase over the appraisal estimate.

The construction of this strategic highway link between Hailar and Manzhouli, while reducing
travel time by about 33% (or about 60 minutes), did not succeed in promoting additional trade
with Russia has shown in the following table.




                                                       20
                 Outcome indicators                              Base year 2003                              Year 2009
                                                                                                                               Ratio
                         ÃÃ                           baseline        actual        Ratio         Target      actual         2003-2009
Travel time   shortest min.                               180                  ÃÃ       0%           100           120                -30%

                                                                               ÃÃ
Cargo volume at the border – highway (1000t

                                         Import          394,2           89,3          23%           850           12,4               -86%

                                         Export           43,8          186,9         427%           100          218,9              +17%

                                              Total        438           276,2         63%           950          231,3               -16%


It is considered that several events contributed to this lack of trade benefits from improved access
to Manzhouli. During the implementation of the project, hardening trade relations between China
and Russia including the clamping down on informal trade, the general economic climate and the
unavailability of the CTT in Hailar have all contributed to this situation. These events also
resulted in significantly less than anticipated traffic volume for which initial estimate were also
too optimistic as shown below.

                 Outcome indicators                              Base year 2003                               Year 2009
                         ÃÃ                            baseline         actual      Ratio         Target           actual           Ratio
AADT of Hailaer-Manzhouli (MTE)
Hailaer-Chenbaerhuqi                                        3300          1689        51%            6800                 1198          18%
Chenbaerhuqi-Wuzhuer                                        2400          1092        46%            4600                 1002          22%
Wuzhuer-Chagang                                             1800           690        38%            3400                 754           22%
Chagang-Zhalainuoer                                         1700           641        38%            2700                 487           18%
Zhalainuoer-Manzhouli                                       3900          1954        50%            7500                 1151          15%
Manzhouli-port                                              1800           750        42%            4000                 230            6%


Nevertheless, it is anticipated that once trade relations between Russia and China and the overall
economic situation improves and the full potential of the Hailar CTT comes to fruition, trade and
traffic volume on the HMH should increase significantly.

Considering the overall growth of Inner Mongolia and the small fraction of IMCD’s fund flow
this project represents, there is no long term risk to the sustainability of the project. However,
these data would suggest the need for more modest standards in other part of the network. New
projects should conduct proper traffic survey and have an independent audit of the figures
provided.

It is worth mentioning that the civil works on HMH also seem to have created a favorable
momentum for cargo by rail, which more than doubled over the same period as shown in the
following table.

                 Outcome indicators                      Base year 2003                                           Year 2009
                                                                                                                                 Ratio 2003-
                         ÃÃ                           baseline        actual        Ratio           target          actual          2009
Cargo volume at the border - railway (1000t                  ÃÃ                              ÃÃ               ÃÃ
                                          Import          9180            9170         100%            12500        21315              132%
                                          Export          1820             660          36%                2450       2365             258%
                                              Total                       9830               ÃÃ            #($Ã 23350                 138%

                                                                 21
Operation of the highway was transferred to the Hulumbeir Highway Administration Bureau
(supervised by the Eastern High Class Highway Management Division) which is conducting
appropriate maintenance operations.

b) Equipment – (PAD estimate: US$3.94 million, ICR actual: US$0.092 million)

Two (2) vehicles, 31 office IT equipment, 20 laboratory testing equipments were procured in
2005 for an aggregated value of US$92 664. Procurement of the initially planned maintenance
equipment was cancelled.

c) Supervision of construction – (PAD estimate: US$5.37 million, ICR actual: US$4.03
million)

The HMH construction was supervised in accordance with FIDIC provision by a supervision
team composed of local firms assisted by two international consultants (IC). The IC role was
limited to project management training and supporting the client with the preparation of monthly
and quarterly progress reports.

Component 2: BORDER ROADS FOR TRADE – (PAD estimate 431 km - US$51.30
million, ICR actual: 690 km - US$117.02 million)

Civil works for the BRFT (14 contracts – 5 road sections) started in November 2004 and the
initial program was substantially completed by October 2008.

Considering available loan proceeds resulting from lower initial price contract, IMCD requested
the addition of the Genhe- Mangui (263 km) road section. This request was approved by a letter
of amendment (November 2006) bringing the total length of improved/upgraded road for this
component to about 690 km. Ge-Man works started in June 2006 and were completed in October
2009.

Final cost of the BRFT is US$ 117.02 million which is 168% above the initial appraisal estimate.
This significant increase of US$ 65.72 million in contract costs are related to IMCD’s decision to
(1) upgrade Yimin-Handagai from class III to class II (US$18.55 million or 28%); (2) the added
GeMan BRFT (US$37.89 million or 58%); and (3) work variations such as soft soil treatment,
changes in borrow pits location for other BRFT (US$ 9.28 million or 14%).

Overall quality of work was good. Per capita income (PCI) also rose significantly between 2003
and 2008 in the vicinity of the region served by the BRFT ranging to as much as 287% for
villagers of the Eluncun banner along the Dayangshu - Baihuapai road.

Baseline and targeted traffic volumes were also too optimistic with actual values for 2008 being
on average, 72% lower than anticipated

Component 3: CARGO TERMINAL AND TRADE FACILITATION STUDY – (PAD
estimate US$2.64 million, ICR actual: US$4.93 million)

a) Cargo terminal construction - (PAD estimate US$2.54 million, ICR actual: US$4.90
million)



                                               22
Construction of the initial 9610 m2 Cargo Transfer Terminal phase started in June 2006 and was
completed in October 2008. This CTT (not financed by WB) was to provide the facilities and
services necessary for cargo transfer between Russian and Chinese trucks as well as for cargo
distribution and consolidation.

In October 2008, Hulumbeir Transport Management Division (HTMD) decided to move forward
with the privatization of the CTT to Tongda Logistic Service Co. Ltd. which undertook a first
phase expansion of 6300m2 that was to be followed in 2010 by a second phase 4500 m2
expansion. CTT operations were scheduled to start in August 2010.

b) Study on measures to promote trade - (PAD estimate US$0.10 million, ICR actual:
US$0.03 million)

This diagnostic study was to identify measures to help develop the full potential for cross-border
trade between China, Russia and Mongolia. The study TOR was approved in 2005 and the study
entrusted to Jilin University and was completed in September 2007 for US$33,951.

The report is well organized and clearly illustrates the increasing demand for the new Highway,
border crossing infrastructures, and the cargo transfer terminal (CTT) facility, as well as the
training requirements. The report however fell short of addressing major trade issues such as
intermodalism, trade programs and CTT operations, infrastructure compatibility, and regulations
between trade partners.

In order to elaborate on some of these trade issues, a study tour to Russia was completed in
August 2009 to improve knowledge of logistic provision and to support trade dialogue between
the two countries.

Component 4: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND TRAINING – (PAD estimate
US$0.67 million, ICR actual: US$0.39 million)

The training program was satisfactorily completed in 2008 and 2009. The initial program was to
include overseas study tours (36 person-months); abroad training courses (40 person-months);
and domestic courses (294 person-months). The internal training program proved to be an
effective tool in transferring technology and management know-how, and gave staff exposure to
new concepts and modern construction procedures. A total of 454 and 28 person-months of
training were received respectively locally or abroad.




                                               23
Domestic training
                                                                                    Number
Training                                                                                of      Nb of Man-
activity                               Training Description                         trainees     Months
    1      Contract Management & International Procurement Bidding                      4           2
    2      File Management                                                              1           1
    3      Financial Management                                                        14           8
    4      Resettlement and Compensation Management                                     30          7
    5      Highway Construction Management                                             150          43
    6      Environmental Protection                                                    230          45
    7      Software Management                                                         40           10
    8      Project Management
    9      Highway Administration                                                      175          65
   10      Road Maintenance                                                            320         160
   11      Continuing Education                                                        120          28
   12      Trade Facilitation Study                                                    10           10
   13      Toll Management                                                             150          75
                                                                                      1244         454




Overseas training
                                                                                     Number
Training                                                                                of      Nb of Man-
activity                          Training Description / Location                   trainnees    Months
    1      Trade Facility                                              France          12           6
    2      Financial Management                                        England         10           5
    3      Project Financing Management                              South Africa      10           5
    4      Human Ressources and Auditing                              Australia        12           9
    5      Trade Facilitation                                          Russia           6           3
                                                                                       50           28


The training covered a wide range of subject related to highway construction, supervision,
maintenance and management, financial management, project management, toll management,
trade facilitation, human resources and auditing, procurement, environmental monitoring,
resettlement and compensation.

Overseas training reports were prepared by trainees and submitted to the Science and Education
division of IMCD Human Resources department for potential development opportunities and
dissemination. Trainees are expected to disseminate finding at domestic seminars and workshops
and some are maintaining contact with specialist abroad.




                                                        24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction

At project appraisal, the economic analysis comprised the evaluation of the two major
components of the project: (a) the construction of the Hailar - Manzhouli Class I highway
(HMH), with three sections Hailar-Wuzhour, WuzhourJalainur and Jalainur-Manzhouli that total
178.73 km; and (b) upgrade and improvement of five rural roads (432 km) under the Border
Roads For Trade Component (BRFT).

The analysis is based on the actual and forecasted operating data on traffic, road user costs
savings (transport user benefits comparing the old and new roads), and project economic cost.
The ICR economic evaluation first replicated the appraisal evaluation, obtaining the same results
with the appraisal estimates, and then the ICR evaluation considered the actual values.

Traffic

Traffic on the HMH

The traffic volume on the Hailar - Manzhouli Highway is much lower than expected at appraisal.
The HMH works started in 2005 when it was upgraded to a Class I road standard. In 2009, actual
traffic volumes on HMH were on average about 86% lower than the ones estimated at appraisal
(see Table 1). The actual traffic is lower due to the fact that the export trade traffic going through
the highway has not increased as expected. The toll rates are not considered to be affecting the
low traffic.

                            Table 1: 2009 Traffic on the New HMH (vehicles per day)
                                                         PAD      ICR       Difference
                       Road Section                    Estimate Actual          (%)
                       Hailar – Wuzhour                  4,435   1,102         -75%
                       Wuzhour – Jalainur                2,667    536          -80%
                       Jalainur – Manzhouli              4,770   1,266         -73%


Traffic on the BRFT

The five improved rural roads comprise the Dayangshu – Baihuapai, Zhalannuoer – Heishantou,
Yiminsumu – Handdagai, Alatanelemo – Arihashate, and Amugulong - Erbuduge roads. The first
two roads were upgraded to Class II road standard, and the remainder three to Class III road
standard.

In 2009, the traffic volume for the five roads was lower than the ones estimated at appraisal stage.
The average traffic for the five roads was about 48% lower than the ones estimated at appraisal,
ranging from a 25% to 74% reduction in traffic. The average annual traffic growth rate on the
roads from 2005-2009, grew at an annual rate of 15%. Table 2 presents the 2009 BRFT traffic.




                                                     25
                            Table 2: 2009 Traffic on Border Roads (vehicles per day)
                                                          PAD        ICR      Difference
                      Road Section                       Estimate   Actual       (%)
                      Dayangshu – Baihuapai                1,085      747       -31%
                      Zhalannuoer – Heishantou              389       164       -58%
                      Yiminsumu – Handdagai                 401       300       -25%
                      Alatanelemo – Arihashate              310       151       -51%
                      Amugulong – Erbuduge                  316        81       -74%


Road User Costs

The Road User Costs (RUC) savings compares the transport user benefits on the old and new
road for different vehicle type. The RUC savings consists of time and vehicle operation costs.
The time savings are mainly based on the difference in road length between the old and new road
and traffic volume, i.e. high traffic volumes can reduce speed and increase travel time. The
vehicle operation costs savings are mainly based on savings in fuel consumption, depreciation,
vehicle maintenance costs, etc, which also depend on the road length, road conditions, and traffic
volume and composition. With help of the HMD-4 model, the savings on the old and new road
are calculated for seven vehicle types: small bus, medium bus, big bus, small truck, medium
truck, big truck, and trailer.


Project Costs

The project costs over the evaluation period consist of costs for construction civil works, routine
maintenance costs, and for the HMH management costs. The construction civil works have a
large impact on the final project costs. The civil works costs for the HMH are given on the Table
3. The actual civil costs works are around 17% higher than the appraisal estimates. The 190.98
kilometer HMH has been designed as a four-lane, partially access-controlled highway that could
be operated as an open toll highway. It also included four interchanges and three toll stations,
service areas, and parking bays, as well as facilities for highway administration and maintenance.
Civil works started in May 2005 and was substantially completed by November 2007 or about 6
months before the scheduled May 2008 initial operation date. The HMH included a 12.25 km
section financed by private funds; hence the World Bank funded highway section was 178.73km
and the actual unit construction cost is RMBY 8.84 million per kilometer.

                                Table 3: HMH Civil Works Costs (RMB Million)
                                                    PAD         ICR      Difference
                       Road Section                Estimate    Actual        (%)
                       Hailar – Manzhouli          1,352.0     1580.0        17%


The civil works costs for the BRFT are given on the Table 4. The actual civil costs works are
around 47% higher than the appraisal estimates. The cost of the Yiminsumu – Handdagai road is
161 percent higher than estimated at appraisal because it was upgraded to Class II road standard
instead of Class III standard as originally planned. The cost of the Alatanelemo – Arihashate road
is 59% higher due to additional subgrade and pavement works.




                                                      26
                                  Table 4: BRFT Civil Works Costs (RMB Million)
                                                           PAD        ICR     Difference
                        Road Section                     Estimate    Actual      (%)
                        Dayangshu – Baihuapai              109.5     132.9       21%
                        Zhalannuoer – Heishantou           135.0     128.2       -5%
                        Yiminsumu – Handdagai               88.4     230.4      161%
                        Alatanelemo – Arihashate            44.0      69.8       59%
                        Amugulong – Erbuduge                16.4      16.9        3%
                        Total                               393       578        47%


Table 5 shows the actual civil works costs per kilometer.

                         Table 5: BRFT Actual Civil Works Costs per Km (RMB Million/km)
                                                            Length               Cost
                Road Section                                 (km)           (M RMB/km)
                Dayangshu – Baihuapai                        74.2                1.79
                Zhalannuoer – Heishantou                     135.9               0.94
                Yiminsumu – Handdagai                        118.0               1.95
                Alatanelemo – Arihashate                     81.7                0.86
                Amugulong – Erbuduge                         21.5                0.79
                Total                                        431.2               1.34



Economic Internal Rate of Return

The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the HMH and the BRFT roads is based on the
actual values given above. The actual EIRR for all roads are lower than the ones estimated at
appraisal stage due to higher than expected civil work costs and lower actual traffic. The EIRR
for the HMH is estimated at 0.8%, compared to the PAD estimate of 15.7%. The EIRR for the
BRFT component is estimated at 10.2%, with values ranging from 1.0% and 19.5%. This
compared to an EIRR value in the PAD of 21.3%, ranging from 16.3% and 28.7% at appraisal.
Table 6 summarizes the results of the economic analysis. The combined EIRR for the entire
project is estimated to be 3.8%, compared to an EIRR at appraisal of 17.0%.

                                     Table 6: Economic Evaluation Summary
                                                                    PAD       ICR      Difference
              Component          Road Section                     Estimate   Actual       (%)
              HMH                Hailar - Wuzhour                  20.5%      4.1%       -80%
                                 Wuzhour - Jalainur                13.5%     -0.1%      -101%
                                 Jalainur - Manzhouli              10.7%     0.2%        -98%
                                 Subtotal                          15.7%      0.8%       -95%
              BRFT               Dayangshu - Baihuapai             28.7%     19.5%       -32%
                                 Zhalannuoer - Heishantou          16.3%      6.0%       -63%
                                 Yiminsumu - Handdagai             17.3%      5.8%       -66%
                                 Alatanelemo - Arihashate          23.6%      7.7%       -67%
                                 Amugulong - Erbuduge              20.4%      1.0%       -95%
                                 Subtotal                          21.3%     10.2%       -52%
              Overall Project                                      17.0%     3.8%        -77%




                                                      27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                 Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Yi Dong                 Sr. Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM     Financial audit
Yasuhiro Kawabata       Consultant                            EXTTK     Environment
Xiaoping Li             Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPC     Procurement
                                                              EASEN-
Naoya Tsukamoto         Sr. Environmental Engr.                         Environment
                                                                HIS
Peishen Wang            Consultant                            EASCS     Resettlement/Social
Jing Xu                 Team Assistant                        EACCF
Dawei Yang              Consultant                            EASCS     Procurement
                                                              EASTE -
Han-Kang Yen            Research Analyst                                Trade
                                                                HIS
Chaohua Zhang           Sr. Social Sector Spec.               SASDS     Resettlement/Social
Supervision/ICR
Alain M. Dube           Consultant                            EASCS     TTL / ICR
Yiren Feng              Environmental Spec.                   EASCS     Environment
Boping Gao              Consultant                            EASCS     Transport
                        Sr. Financial Management
Yi Geng                                                       EAPFM Financial audit
                        Specialist
                                                              EASTE -
Cornelia Klijn          Junior Professional Associate           HIS
                                                                        ICR
Yan Lu                  Transport Specialist                  EASCS     Transport
Teresita Ortega         Program Assistant                      EASIN    Admin. Assistant
                                                              EASTE -
Wen Pan                 Consultant                              HIS
                                                                        Transport
                                                              EASTE -
Michel Savard           Consultant                              HIS
                                                                        Transport / ITS
Sreypov Tep             Program Assistant                     ECSHD     Admin. Assistant
Robert Louis Wallack    Consultant                            EASCS     Trade specialist
Peishen Wang            Consultant                            EASCS     Resettlement/Social
Haiyan Wang             Finance Officer                       CTRDM     Financial audit
Hongkun Yang            Consultant                            EASCS     Transport
Dawei Yang              Consultant                            EASCS     Procurement
Songling Yao            Social Development Spec.              EASCS     Resettlement/Social
Jun Zeng                Social Development Spec.              EASCS     Resettlement/Social
Youlan Zou              Consultant                            EASCS     Transport




                                           28
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                                40.64
  FY04                                                               224.03
  FY05                                                               125.06
                          Total:                                     389.73
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                                 0.73
  FY06                                                                53.14
  FY07                                                                66.94
  FY08                                                                50.59
                          Total:                                     171.40




                                       29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
None




                                      30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
None




                                   31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR



                PRC World Bank Financed Inner Mongolia
                  Transport and Trade Corridor Project




               Project Implementation Completion Report
                          Loan No. Ln 4765-CHA




        Inner Mongolia Hai-Man Highway Construction and Management Office

                                  August 2010




                                     32
1.    Project Background
2.    Brief Description of the Project Objectives and Components.
3.    Assessment of the Achievement of Project Development Objective
4.    Outputs of Project Components
5.    Impact on Institutional Development
6.    Justification of Sustainability of the Project Achievements
7.    Arrangements for Operation and Future Maintenance of the Assets
8.    Evaluation of the Performance of the World Bank
9.    Evaluation of the Performance of the Borrower and Implementing Agencies
10.   Lessons Learned

1 Project Description

1.1 Name of Project

Name World Bank Financed Inner Mongolia Transport and Trade Corridor Project        Loan
No. 4765-CHA

The Board of the World Bank has approved to provide loan of 100million US dollars for the
Project on Feb 15, 2005 Loan Agreement and Project Agreement have been signed between
Ministry of Finance and the World Bank on May 18, 2005 the project got effective on July 21,
2005 and closing date of the project was on June 30, 2010.

1.2 Components of the project

1      Construction of Class I highway from Hailaer to Manzhouli with the total length of
190.98km 19.23km link road of Class III to East Wuzhuer 1.168km port cargo transport
passage promoted the development and booming of border trade which is benefited for further
development of local economy.

2       Construction of 6 road networks(Highway Network Improvement Program) total
length 691km which have improved the capabilities of 4 seasonal land ports between China and
Russia, China and Mongolia and meanwhile facilitate the travel condition for the residents from
the remote area.
  1 Class II highway from Dayangshu—Baihuapai ,66.05km link road 8.13km
  2 Class II highway of Yimin-Handagai 101.183km link road 16.8km
  3 Class III highway of Zhalainuoer to Heishantou 135.92km;
  4 Class III highway of Alatanemole to Arihashate port 81.66km;
  5 Class III highway of Amugulang to Ebuduge 21.45km;
   6 Class III highway of Genhe——Mangui 260km;

3 Construction of Cargo Terminal Transfer station (CTT) for import and export, facilitates
the collection, distribution, dispatch of cargo, and promote trade development.

4 Purchasing of equipment Used for the highway maintenance under bad weather condition,
including the management and testing equipment.




                                              33
5 Training of staffs including domestic and overseas training on the subjects of construction
management, highway maintenance, environmental protection, trade facilitation, human resources
development and utilizing, as well as the training for financial management etc.

6 Trade subject study Study the promote function of transport facilitation of Hulunbeier to
the regional economy and border trade, and the adaptability of border trade.

2. Objective and main content of the project

The main objective of the project is to make full use of the transport infrastructures to promote
the development of international trade in Inner Mongolia, especially in Hulunbeier. The project
would benefit for the overall development of Hulunbeier to become the main trade port with
Russia and Mongolia as required by the central government. Therefore, the project would
improve the capability of basic transport infrastructures and the road network planning to meet
the demand of increasing of border international cargo transportation in Northeast China. To
make cargo transfer and trade facilitation program with a view to meet the increasing border
trade Provide technical assistant for Inner Mongolia Communications Department (IMCD) and
Hulunbeier city focus on the strengthening of capability of plan, procedure and management in
the increasing demand for international trade.

2.1 Hailaer-Manzhouli highway

Hailaer to Manzhouli highway is constructed as the standard of Class I with the total length of
190.98km the width of subgrade is 24m for integrated style, 2×12m for separation style the
upper layer is adopting 4cm fine grain asphalt concrete, the lower layer is adopting coarse grain
asphalt concrete of 8cm. Base level is adopting cement stable gravel of 20cm sub-base is
adopting cement stable gravel of 20cm the layer is adopting un-screened gravel of 20cm or
40cm. Three toll gates have been constructed. One service area, one parking area, one
management sub-center, and two maintenance area also have been constructed under the project.

2.2 Highway Network Improvement Program

1 Class II highway from Dayangshu—Baihuapai

National highway111 Dayangshu to Baihuapai highway is located within the Eluncun banner
with the total length of 66.05km, and link road of 8.13km the standard would adopt class II
highway standard of heavy hilly area with the designed vehicle speed of 60km/hour the width of
subgrade8.5m the width of pavement 7.0m the designed loading capability for bridge is
highway class II.

2. Yimin- Handagai highway

PH202Yimin-Handagai highway is located in the territory of Ewenke and Xinbaerhu banner with
the total length of 101.183km link road16.8km adopting technical standard of class III flat –
rolling area. The designed vehicle speed is 30km/hour the width of subgrade is 7.5m and the
width of pavement is 6.0m the loading capacity of the bridge is highway class II.

3   Zhalainuoer to Heishantou highway

Zhalainuoer to Heishantou port highway is located at Xinbaerhu left banner with total length of
135.92km adopting the technical standard of class III flat rolling area with the designed speed of

                                               34
30km/hour the width of subgrade 7.5m the width of pavement 6.0m loading capacity of
bridge is highway class II.

4. Alatanemole-Arihashate port highway

Alatanemole to Arihashate highway is located at the Xinbaerhu right banner with the total length
of 81.66km adopting the technical standard of highway class III flat rolling area, with the
designed vehicle speed of 30km/hour the width of subgrade is 7.5m the width of pavement is
6.0m the loading capacity of bridge and culverts is highway class II.

5. Amugulang-Ebuduge highway

Amugulang-Ebuduge highway is located in Xinbaerhu left banner with total length of 21.45km
adopting the highway technical standard of class III flat rolling area with the designed vehicle
speed of 60km. The width of subgrade is 8.5m width of pavement is 7.0m loading capacity of
bridges and culverts is highway class II.

6. Genhe-Mangui class III highway 259.8km

 Genhe-Mangui highway is located at Genhe city with total length of 259.8km adopting the
highway technical standard of class III heavy hilly area, the width of subgrade is 7.5m width of
pavement is 6.5m. Designed loading capacity of bridges and culverts is highway class II.

2.3 Cargo transfer terminal of Import/Export trade

Construct the cargo transfer terminal for import and export trade with the total building area of
9610 square meters, with a view to vacillate the collection, distribution, and dispatch of cargo,
promoting the trade development .

2.4 Procurement of equipment
The procurement and adjustment of maintenance equipment would improve the level of
mechanization for maintenance, strengthen the facilities of management institution and improve
the effectiveness of the project.

2.5 Training

Through the domestic training and overseas training, the management level of construction
management highway maintenance, and the capability of financial staffs have been
strengthened. Through the training of environmental protection, trade facilitation, and
development of human resources, the staffs of PMO have got the international experience used
for project management and development

2.6 Trade study

The objective is to study the promotion function of Hulunbeier transport facilities to the border
trade and the adaptability to the regional economy and border trade with a view to promote the
trade development of China and the neighbored countries.

3. Achievement of project objectives

3.1 Hailaer-Manzhouli class I highway

                                               35
The total length of Hailaer-Manzhouli highway is 190.98 km, the operation started from
November 2007.

The travel time after operation has been reduced, and the travel cost also reduced. The traffic
volume is under the anticipated value the rate of traffic volume is oscillating the increasing
trend is not obvious, lower than the anticipated value. The import and export volume of highway
is stable, no big increase, but is still lower than the anticipated value.

                               Achieved Indictors of the Project
Target                                  Base year 2003            2007            2008
                                                 actual     plan    actual  plan    actual
Travel time shortest min.                 180                  120      150    100      150
Import/Export cargo from
highway 1000t                             438      276.2      826      265.3      900       250.2
Import                                   394.2      89.3      743      128.6      810        58.3
Export                                    43.8     186.9       83      136.7       90       191.9
Import/Export cargo from
railway 1000t                                       9830                                 23350
Import                                    9180      9170    11280     21500    11700     20170
Export                                    1820       660     2220      1780     2300      3180
Mode of Import/Export
Import-Railway                             95.9    99.04      93.8     99.41     93.5       99.71
Import-Highway                              4.1     0.96       6.3      0.59      6.5        0.29
Export-Railway                             97.4    77.93      96.4     92.87     96.2       94.31
Export-Highway                              2.6    22.07       3.6      7.13      3.8        5.69
Cargo processing at CTT 1000T               72                                   150
AADT of Hailaer-Manzhouli                 2458      1123     3801      1377     4197         965
Hailaer-Chenbaerhuqi                      3300      1689     5400      2150     6000        1257
Chenbaerhuqi-Wuzhuer                      2400      1092     3700      1418     4100        1054
Wuzhuer-Chagang                           1800       690     2700      1045     3000         889
Chagang-Zhalainuoer                       1700       641     2280       776     2400         521
Zhalainuoer-Manzhouli                     3900      1954     6100      1907     6800        1421
Manzhouli-port                            1800       750     3200       713     3600         491

The gross output value along Hailaer-Manzhouli highway has been increased from 6.1billion
yuan in 2003 to 23.6billlion yuan in 2008.

3.2 Highway network improvement program

The total length of highway network improvement is 691km, the program has been completed on
Oct. 2009 the road capability in the project area has been greatly strengthened, basic
infrastructure get improved, the social and economic benefit also have been improved as well.

       Summary Sheet of Road Network Improvement Program
                                                   Date of                 Date of
No. Item                  Class      Length KM     commence                 completion
         Dayangshu -
  1       Baihuapai       Class II           74.18 2004.11.30               2006.10.30

                                              36
  2      Yimin - Handagai       Class II               117.98    2005.4.10      2007.10.30
           Zhalainuoer -
  3         Heishantou          Class III              135.92    2005.4.10      2006.10.30
          Alatanemole -
  4         Arihashate          Class III               81.66    2005.4.10      2006.10.30
           Amugulang -
  5          Ebuduge            Class III               21.45    2004.11.30     2005.10.30
  6       Genhe-Mangui          Class III               259.8     2007.6.20     2009.10.30

Dayangshu~Baihuapai highway is located in Eluncun autonomous banner. The construction of
the highway would speed up the economy development and improve the local traffic condition by
reducing the cost of travel. There are 3 townships along the highway, the living condition of over
150,000 residents has been improved including education and medical service. The construction
also has pulled forward the industries of agriculture, tourism, as well as transportation. The
economic benefit of social and economic is obvious. The annual per capita income of citizens in
Eluncun banner in 2008 is 9825 yuan, which is 183% compared with 2003 the annual per capita
income of villagers is 3715 yuan which is 287% compared with 2003.

Yimin~Handagai highway is located at Ewenke autonomous banner and Xinbaerhu left banner.
The construction of the project would speed up the economic development of minority
nationalities bring up the service level and traffic capabilities, reducing the transportation cost,
promote the local industry development including agriculture, animal-husbandry, forestry and
tourism. Promote the local economic construction. The per capita income in Ewenke banner in
2008 is 10726 yuan, which is 179% compared with 2003 the per capita income of villagers is
7050 yuan which is 168% compared with 2003. The per capita income in Xinbaerhu left banner
in 2008 is 10415 yuan, which is 199% compared with 2003. The per capita income of villagers in
2008 is 7085 yuan, which is 228% compared with 2003.

Zhalainuoer ~ Heishantou highway, the service level and traffic capacity have been
strengthened, the transport cost has been reduced. The development and prosperous of border
trade also been promoted. The cargo transportation volume in 2003 is 13108ton passenger
transportation volume is 7051person time. The cargo transportation volume in 2008 is 15771ton,
which is 120% compared with 2003 the passenger transportation volume is 1059 person time,
reduced 85% compared with 2003.

Alatanemole ~ Arihashate highway, the completion of the project would greatly promote the
easy access of the townships. The government of sumu moved to Arihashate, the local economic
development has been promoted, contained the damage of vehicles to the grassland, helped the
flowing herdsman to settle down provide impetus for the development and booming of border
ports. The cargo transportation volume in 2003 is 7832ton passenger transportation volume is
18932person time; while the cargo transportation volume in 2008 is 20252ton, which is 258% of
2003 the passenger transport volume is 30712 person time, which is 183% of 2003.
Amugulang ~Ebuduge highway, after the completion of the project, the service level and traffic
capacity have been strengthened, the transport cost has been reduced. The development and
prosperous of border trade also been promoted. Cargo transport volume in 2005 is 25ton
passenger transportation volume is 105 person times, the cargo transportation volume in 2008 is
56495ton, which is 2259 times compared with 2003, passenger transportation volume is
2317person time which is 22 times compared with 2005.

Genhe-Mangui highway, after the completion of the project, the transportation cost has been
greatly reduced, the travel condition also been greatly improved the service of education and

                                                37
medicine has been improved along the 5 townships of over 160,000 residents. The construction
also has pulled forward the industries of agriculture, tourism, as well as transportation. The
economic benefit of social and economic is obvious. The annual per capita income of Ewnke
banner in 2008 is 10645 yuan, which is 177% compared with 2003.

3.3 Cargo transfer terminal of import and export trade

The CTT has been completed in Oct 2008, but not operating yet, the direct transfer between
China and Russia has not achieved, the full function of CTT has not bring into play.

3.4 Procurement of equipment

The procurement of equipment including testing and institution strengthening have been
completed on June 2005 which could meet the demand of management and testing.

3.5 Training

The plan for overseas training is 85 person-time with total cost of USD 570,000. The training of
financial management, project financing management, trade facilities construction, human
resources management, border trade facilities have been conducted for 31 person time, with the
total cost of USD254698.

3.6 Trade study

Trade study has been completed, the construction of CTT would improve the overall trade
facilitation in Hulunbeir, facilitie the distribution of cargo and reduce the cost of logistic,
improve the overall service level, promote the development of border trade .

4. Output of the project

The total traffic flow in 2008 of the three toll gates is 1202286 23.6335million yuan has been
collected the management cost of toll collection units is 3.8million yuan. The total traffic flow
in 2009 of the three toll gates is 1244448 22.7241million yuan has been collected, the
management cost of toll collection units is 4.14million yuan.

The payback time in Loan agreement starts from Oct 15, 2010 the total amount payback is
USD2770000, which equivalent to RMB18.80million. Total amount pay back in 2011 would be
USD5645000, which equivalent to RMB38.38million yuan. Based on the calculation of existing
traffic, the toll collection charge would not exceed 35million yuan in 2011 the toll collection
charge would be lower than the amount of payback loan. The total amount of the toll collection of
the project is lower, and is difficult to meet the amount of payback.




                                               38
5. Impact of project to the institution development

To ensure the smooth implementation of the project, Inner Mongolia Communications Depart set
up the “Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Hai-Man Highway Construction and Management
Office ( PMO)” in November 2004 PMO is composed of the experienced staffs from IMCD
and Hulunbeier Communications Bureau.           Their work is highly efficient including the
preparation of the project in the early stage, organize the bidding process of civil works and
goods, management of construction of Hailaer-Manzhouli highway, guide the construction
management of each sub-components, prepare the method of engineering management and
financial management, organize the handover of the project etc. This agency is operated very
satisfactory.

After completion of Hai-Man highway PMO has purchased maintenance machinery and
equipment cost 13.55million yuan responsible by Hulunbeier highway administration bureau.
There are two maintenance working section responsible for the maintenance of Hailaer-
Manzhouli highway to ensure the smooth traffic all year round.

There are three toll gates along Hailaer-Manzhouli highway which have provided 100
employment opportunities.

After completion of road network program of the project PMO has purchased maintenance
machinery costs 4.3million yuan, the distance of maintenance has been increased and has
provided over 400 employment opportunities to ensure the smooth traffic all year round.

Hailaer Tongda logistic Company was established on the basis of the Cargo Transfer Terminal
mainly handle the business of transportation, warehousing, and management of transport
vehicles.

There were 31 person-time overseas survey and training during the implementation of the project.
Through these training courses, the experience for project management of the staffs have been
greatly improved including planning, financing, construction, consulting services, auditing,
environment protection etc.

The domestic training including World Bank financed project management training and domestic
project management of 1244 person-time have been conducted. The technical capability of
construction and supervision staffs has been improved.

6.The justification for the sustainable development for the project

The direct economic benefit is reducing the operation time between Manzhouli and Hailaer. The
travel time after completion is 120 minutes compared with 180 minutes before construction. The
completion of road networks would facilitate the travel, education, and health services of local
residents. Economic benefits and social benefits would be greatly improved. The project is basic
infrastructure, which will bring up the development of industry, agriculture, animal husbandry,
tourism and transportation industries with the condition and potential for sustainable
development.

7. Operation and maintenance asset management in the future

The service area and parking area have been handed over to Inner Mongolia Eastern High-grade
Highway Administration Division for maintenance and management, however, the operation has
                                              39
not started yet. the toll gates have been handed over to Inner Mongolia Levy Bureau Hulunbeier
branch under IMCD the total vehicle flow in the three toll gates during 2008 is
1202286 collected toll charge of 23.6335million yuan the total vehicle flow in 2009 is 244448,
collected toll charge of 22.7241million yuan.

Budget management of project maintenance cost. It was invested 3.567million yuan for
maintenance of Hailaer-Manzhouli highway in 2008 1.017million yuan for Dayangshu to
Baihuapai, 1.563million for Yimin-Handaggai highway; and it was invested 3.567million yuan
for the maintenance of Hailaer-Manzhouli highway, 1.054million yuan for Dayangshu-Baihuapai
highway, 1.621million for Yimin-Handaggai highway; The maintenance of Zhalainuoer-
Heishantou, Alatanemole - Arihashate to Ebuduge, and Genhe-Mangui highway will be
responsible by the local maintenance units of each banners. As the impact of local financial
income, the maintenance cost has not been invested yet.

8. Evaluation of the Performance of Bank

The staffs of the World Bank have provided many beneficial guidance and assistance on the
aspects of techniques, management, and staff training, etc. from the preparation to the
implementation of the project. They conducted site survey twice a year for inspection and have
provided effective comments and suggestion. Their attitude to work is very serious, and their
work style is practical and highly effective. Our evaluation of the performance of Bank is very
satisfactory.

During the project pre- appraisal in June 2003 to the closing date in June 2010, there have been 3
task managers responsible for the project. The frequent shift of staffs would cause the un-
continuous of the management staffs and information exchanges.

9. Evaluation of the Performance of the Borrower

The staffs of PMO of Hailaer-Manzhouli highway and Sub-projects of road networks worked
very hard, the project goes very smoothly and completed in due time with good quality. The
achievements have been acknowledged by the experts of Bank and Inner Mongolia
Communications Department.

10. Experiences and Lessons learned

      1. Involving the staffs those have been working for World Bank financed projects to
      improve the efficiency. During preparation of the project, PMO involved the experienced
      staffs from Inner Mongolia Communications Department Foreign Capital Utilizing Office
      who are familiar with Bank procedure, reduced many roundabout way and speed up the
      progress of the project; this also has provided better facilitation for the good
      communication between PMO and World Bank.

      2 Through project management, a batch of talents get well understand of the procurement
      process and method of Bank have been trained.

      3. During the preparation and implementation of the project, various units have been
      involved including Development and Reform Commission, Financial units, Auditing,
      Environmental protection, Water conservation, Land administration etc. The close
      cooperation of these units is important condition for successful implementation of the
      project.

                                               40
4. The geology survey conducted by design institute is not detailed enough. Geology
selection of alignment have not been made, therefore, there are big variation in design.
5. The design of gas station in the service area and parking area need to be conducted by
Petroleum Management units, which is more in consistent with the requirements of
industry.

6. The lowest price principle of World Bank is not suitable for Chinese situation.




                                         41
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                    42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. The World Bank, Inner Mongolia Highway and Trade Corridor Project: Project
      Appraisal Document (No. 30004-CHA), January, 2005

   2. The World Bank, Inner Mongolia Highway and Trade Corridor Project: Loan
      Agreement (No 4567-CHA) between the People’s Republic of China and the
      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, May 18, 2005

   3. The World Bank, Inner Mongolia Highway and Trade Corridor Project: Project
      Agreement (No 4567-CHA) between Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and the
      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, May 18, 2005

   4. The World Bank, Inner Mongolia Highway and Trade Corridor Project, Letter of
      amendment, (No 4567-CHA) June 15, 2007

   5. The World Bank, Back to office reports and Aide-memoires of the Inner Mongolia
      Highway and Trade Corridor Project from 2005 to 2010

   6. The World Bank, Project Status Report and Implementation Supervision Reports
      for the Inner Mongolia Highway Project from 2005 to 2010

   7. Inner Mongolia Communication Department, Work Progress (monthly and
      quarterly) and Annual Monitoring reports, from 2005 to 2008.

   8. Inner Mongolia Communication Department, Haiman Highway Traffic & Trade
      Diagnosis Research Report of Hulunbeir City Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, from
      January 5, 2007.

   9. Inner Mongolia Communication Department, Implementation Completion Report
      and Summary, February 2007




                                          43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33237R
         RUSSIAN                                                                                      Area                                                                         120                                                                                     124
       FEDERATION                  For detail, see                                                   of Map
                                    IBRD 33238                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHINA
                                                                                                    HEILONGJIANG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INNER MONGOLIA
                          MONGOLIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TRANSPORT AND TRADE
                                                                     L
                                                                                                   JILIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FACILITATION PROJECT
                                                                                                                        Sea of
                                                                  GO
XINJIANG

                                                         M
                                                             ON
                                                                                         LIAONING
                                                                                                       D.P.R. OF
                                                                                                                        Japan JAPAN                                                                                                                                                                                                         HULUNBEIER TRANSPORT SYSTEM
                                                     I
                                                NE
                                                                  BEIJING                               KOREA
                                                                  BEIJING
                                                                                TIANJIN
                                                                      HEBEI                                   REP. OF
                                                                                                Yellow KOREA




                                     NINGXIA
                                                          SHANXI
                                                                            SHANDONG
                                                                                                 Sea

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HEILONGJIANG
              QINGHAI
                             GANSU




                                                                                      JIA
                                               SHAANXI         HENAN                                       East




                                                                                        N
                                                                                         G
                                                                              ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      52                 HAILAR - MANZHOULI HIGHWAY




                                                                                          SU
                                                                                                          China
                                                                                                 SHANGHAI
                                                                                                           Sea
                                                              HUBEI                                                                                                                                                                    Mangui                                                                                                            RURAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM:

                                                G
     XIZANG


                                              IN
                         SICHUAN

                                             Q
                                                                                        ZHEJIANG
                                           NG                                                                                                   52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1      Dayangshu - Baihuapai                  70.5       II
                                          O
                                        CH


                                                                            JIANGXI
                                                             HUNAN

                                     GUIZHOU                                          FUJIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2      Yimin - Handagai                       99.0      III




                                                                                                                                                                                                       A
     National Capital
                                                                                                                        PACIFIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3      Heishantou - Zhalainuoer 158.0                   III




                                                                                                                                                                                                   UN
     Province           YUNNAN                                                                   TAIWAN
     Boundaries                                  GUANGXI           GUANGDONG                                            OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4      Alatanemole - Arihashate




                                                                                                                                                                                                  G
                                                                            HONG KONG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             82.5      III
     International
       MYANMAR




                                                                                                                                                                                               ER
     Boundaries
                                                                         MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                         LAO        VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5      Amugulang - Ebuduge                    19.3      III




                                                                                                                                                                                            E'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HE
                          P.D.R.
                                                         HAINAN                                              PHILIPPINES                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6      Genhe - Mangui




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G
                                                                   116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVINCIAL ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Songling
                                                                                                                           RUSSIAN                                                                                      Genhe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ganhe       Alihe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                                                                                                         FEDERATION                                                                                                             Keyihe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jiwen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Woduhe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ∆         AIRPORTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jiagedaqi                                                  RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Baihuapai
                                                                                                                                                                      Heishantou              E'erguna                                                   ELUNCHUN                                                                                        SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Guli
                                                                                                                           HAILAR – MANZHOULI                                                                                                                                Neerkeqi             1                                                      LEAGUE (PREFECTURE) CAPITALS
                                                                                                           To Cita               HIGHWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                             3                                                                                                                                                                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                 CHENBA'ERHU                                                                                                          Dayangshu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   YAKESHI                                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                           Manzhouli                                                               Hadatu
                                                                                                                                  Zhalainuoer        Xiwuzhuer
        MONGOLIA                                                                               Dalai-dong
                                                                                                                                                             Bayankuren
                                                                                       MANZHOULI                                                Chagang
                                                                                                                                                                               HAILAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Yakeshi                                                      Nuomin

                                                                                                            Dalai                                                                                            Mianduhe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tengke
                                                                                                                                       For Detail,
                                                                                                                 Hulun               See IBRD 33238                                HAILAER
                                                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Wunuoer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ARONG                                                      MOLIDAWA
                                                                         Alatanemole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DAWO'ERZU
                                                                                                                                     XI




                                                                                                                                                                                    Menggen
                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                       N




                                                                                                                                                           Madamuji                                                                                                               Baoshan
                                                                                                                                                                                EWENKE                                        Boketu                             Chabaqi
                                                                                                                                         BA




                                                          Arihashate
                                                                       r                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Nehe
                                                                    ve
                                                                                                                                            '   ER




                                                                 Ri                                        Baodong                                                              Yimin
                                                               n                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gushan
                                                                                                                                                     HU
                                                             ul u




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Huoerqi
                                                          Kel




                                                                         XINBA'ERHU-
                                                                                                                                                      -Z




                                                                                                                           Amugulang                                                     Honghuaerji                                                         Najitun
                                                                                                                                                          UO




                                                                                                                                                                           2                                                                                                                                                          48
48                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                       YOU                                                                                                                                                Zhalantun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Yinhe
                                                                                                                                        Ebuduge
                                                                                                                                                           Nuomenhan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Yaergenchu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To Haerbin
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ZALANTUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Moguqi
                                                                                                                                                                          Handagai                                                                                                            0       25       50       75   100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Guanmenshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KILOMETERS                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Haoraoshan                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                     116                                                                                                                        120                                                                                                   124

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OCTOBER 2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33238
       RUSSIAN
     FEDERATION                 For detail, see
                                 IBRD 33237
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHINA
                                                                                       Area
                                                                                      of Map               HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INNER MONGOLIA TRANSPORT AND TRADE FACILITATION PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HAILAR - MANZHOULI HIGHWAY
                       MONGOLIA
                                                                                                          JILIN

                                                                        L                                                     Sea of
XINJIANG                                                             GO
                                                             ON
                                                                                               LIAONING                       Japan JAPAN
                                                     I
                                                         M                                                    D.P.R. OF                                                                                                                                       PROPOSED HIGHWAY                            NATIONAL ROADS                                               RIVERS
                                                                     BEIJING
                                                NE                   BEIJING
                                                                                                               KOREA

                                                                                      TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INTERCHANGES                                PROVINCIAL ROADS                                             LAKES/ RESERVOIRS
                                                                            HEBEI                                   REP. OF
                                                                                                        Yellow      KOREA                                                                                                                                     REST AREAS                                  RAILROADS
                                  NINGXIA




                                                          SHANXI
                                                                                SHANDONG                                                                                                                                                                 70
                                                                                                         Sea                                                                                                                                       K-4
           QINGHAI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KILOMETER POSTS
                          GANSU
                                                                                            JIA




                                            SHAANXI                 HENAN                                             East                                                                                                                                    CARGO TRANSFER CENTER
                                                                                               NG




                                                                                    ANHUI
                                                                                                 SU




                                                                                                                     China
                                                                                                        SHANGHAI      Sea
  XIZANG                                                            HUBEI
                                                 G
                                                 IN




                      SICHUAN
                                                Q




                                                                                               ZHEJIANG
                                            NG
                                            O
                                     CH




                                                                               JIANGXI
                                                             HUNAN

                                  GUIZHOU                                                   FUJIAN
  National Capital
                                                                                                        TAIWAN                PACIFIC
  Province           YUNNAN
  Boundaries                                    GUANGXI                GUANGDONG                                              OCEAN                                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                HONG KONG                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
  International
    MYANMAR                                                                  MACAO                                                                                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
  Boundaries
                      LAO        VIETNAM                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                       P.D.R.                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                         HAINAN                                                     PHILIPPINES




                                                                                                                                            er
                                                                                                                                   a Ri v
                                                                                                                              un
                                                                                                                            e rg
                                                                                                                            E'




                                Manzhouli
                                                         K-5
                                                               70                                                                                                                                                                             00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        K-5                         K-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          90




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E 'erg ena
                                                                                                                                                                               K-530
                                  Lubin
                                                                                                                    K-550                        K-540                                                K-520
                                                                                             K-5                                                                                                                              K-510
                                                                                                   60                                                                                                                                                                                 K-48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                    Donghao

                                                                                                                  Zhalainuoer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K-410
                                                                              Zhalainuoer                                                                                                                                                                           H                                            K-46                                                      K-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20
                                                                                   Station                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0                                                           Chenbaerhu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         K-400




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       la e r
                                                                                                                                                         Ha                                                                                                                    Ri                                                     K-45
                                                                                                                                                              i la                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               er




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Li n e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ri v
                                                                                                                                                                er




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            K-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H a il a e r
                                                                                                                                                                     Ri
                                                                                                                                                                     ve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lin king
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 K-44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                       r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HAILAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     z h u er
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Hemen                                                                                             g   wu                                                                                                             Y im




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Do




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in Riv er
                                                                       Hulun                                                                                                     Chagang
                                                                       Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Wangong                   Donggong


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SEPTEMBER 2004
