CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1214 MA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE CITY OF KUALA LUMPUR
and
THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Dated March 11, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BAINK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and THE CITY OF KUALA LUMPUR (hereinafter called KLC) and THE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (hereinafter called UDA).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Malaysia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-six million dollars ($26,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that KLC and UDA agree to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS KLC and UDA, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. KLC shall together with the Borrower carry out
Part A of the Project, together with the Borrower and UDA carry
out Part C(i)(a) of the Project, and carry out Parts B(ii) and
(iii) and C(ii)(a) of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement and UDA shall together with the Borrower and KLC
carry out Part C(i)(a) of such Project and carry out Part B(iv)
and (v) of such Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engi-
neering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist KLC and UDA in carrying out
the engineering design for and in implementing the Project KLC
and UDA shall employ engineering consultants and advisors whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank and KLC or UDA or both, as the
case may be.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.


﻿Section 2.04. (a) KLC and UDA undertake to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to them
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by KLC and UDA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, KLC and UDA shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to them by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) KLC and UDA shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any substantial modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) KLC and UDA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to rec-
ord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to them by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan so made available to them and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-5 -
Section 2.06. (a) KLC and UDA shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) KLC and UDA shall promptly inform the Bank of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the pro-
gress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by KLC and UDA of their obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.07. KLC shall implement a program acceptable to the
Bank for introducing, not later than July 1, 1977 or such other
date as may be agreed between the Bank and KLC, area road pricing
in the area under its jurisdiction.
Section 2.08. (a) KLC and UDA shall monitor and evaluate the
progress of Part B(iv) of the Project in accordance with the per-
formance indicators and targets set forth in Part 2 of Schedule 5
of the Loan Agreement and any additional indicators and targets
established after exchanging views with the Bank.
(b) KLC shall, in cooperation with the Borrower, monitor
and evaluate the progress of Parts A and B(i), (ii) and (iii) of
the Project in accordance with the performance indicators and tar-
gets set forth in Part 1 of Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) KLC shall ensure that plots of land shall
be sold for the purposes of Part B(iv) of the Project on terms
and conditions established after exchanging views with the Bank.


﻿-6-
(b) KLC and UDA shall select settlers as beneficiaries of
Part B(iv) of the Project according to criteria acceptable to the
Bank.
Section 2.10. KLC shall implement as part of the Project,
lanes, routes and priorities for high-occupancy vehicles, and shall
not substantially modify them without a prior exchange of views
with the Bank.
Section 2.11. KLC and UDA shall ensure that:
(a) site selections for the third phase referred to in Part
B(iv) of the Project shall be made after exchanging views with the
Bank on alternative sites evaluated according to criteria to be
established in agreement with the Bank;
(b) site layouts and engineering designs for the second
and third phases referred to in Part B(iv) of the Project shall be
established in agreement with the Bank; and
(c) design standards for the second and third phases referred
to in Part B(iv) of the Project shall be no higher than those for
the first phase.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KLC and UDA
Section 3.01. KLC shall ensure that its Traffic Management
Department at all times manages its affairs, plans its future
expansion and carries on its operations, all in accordance with
sound traffic management practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by adequate,
experienced and competent staff.
Sect. 1 3.02. UDA shall ensure that its Sites and Services
and Resettlement Section at all times manages its affairs, plans
its future expansion and carries on its operations, all in accord-
ance with sound administrative and management practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by adequate, experienced and competent staff.
Section 3.03. KLC and UDA shall cooperate with the Borrower
for the purpose of carrying out Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. KLC and UDA shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices their operations and financial condition in
relation to the Project.
Section 4.02. KLC and UDA shall: (i) have the accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year relating to
the Project audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by the Auditor General of Malaysia
or other independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank through HP & PTU as soon as available, but in any case
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank through HP and PTU such other informa-
tion concerning such accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿09 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of KLC and UDA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i)       the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)      a date 20 years after the date 3f this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Sec-
tion, the Bank shall promptly notify KLC and UDA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 10-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous P:ovisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.
The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 h Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For KLC:
City Hall, Kuala Lumpur
Tunku Abdul Rahman Road
Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Cable address:
DATUKBANDAR
Kuala Lumpur


﻿- 11 -
For UDA:
126 Jalan Bukit Bintang
Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Cable address:
BANDAR
Kuala Lumpur
Section 6.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of KLC may be taken or executed by the Chief
Administrator of KLC or such other person or persons as the Chief
Administrator of KLC shall designate in writing.
(b) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of UDA may be taken or executed by the Chairman of UDA
or such other person or persons as the Chairman of UDA shall de-
signate in writing.
Section 6.03. (a) KLC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of KLC, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by KLC pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.


﻿-13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
THE CITY OF KUALA LUMPUR
By /s/ Anaitullah Karim
A :horized Representative
THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By /s/ Anaitullah Karim
Authorized Representative


