FILE COPY                               Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1789-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT)
March 18, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sucre (SI.)
S/. 1.00      = usto.oA
USt1.00       = SI. 25.00
S/. 1 million = US4hO,000
GOVERUMEN0T OF ECUADOR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR
A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
I.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
technical assistance loan to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of
MU$4.0 million toihe4p finance planning, pre-investment and project prepara-
tion in agriculture and rural development. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Ecuador:   Economic Memorandum" (No. 1033-EC) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1976. Annex I summarizes
the main economic and social indicators.
3.        With the firimt shipments of crude oil from the Oriente Region in
1972, Ecuador became a net exporter of oil. This provided the country with
additional resources %lich at least temporarily removed the savings and
foreign exchange constiraints that had severely impeded Ecuador's growth in
the past.  Oil income irose from $38 million in 1972 to over $420 million in
1974. However, during the last year it has become clear that the country's
oil wealth is smaller ithan previously estimated. One year ago, it was esti-
mated that the country had total -- proven and probable -- oil reserves
equivalent to 5.7 billLon barrels. Current estimates are of only 2.5 billion
barrels, owing to a substantial decline in the calculation of probable ex-
ploitable reserves. Moreover, it is now expected that the production levels
projected last year for 1976 will not be achieved until the early 1980s. These
revised estimates, together with a better knowledge of the difficulties to be
encountered in the expioitation of Ecuador's untapped oil fields, and with
the transitory problems faced by the country's oil exports in 1974-75, in-
dicate that Ecuador is not likely to accumulate substantial amounts of foreign
exchange reserves in the foreseeable future.
4.        There has been a sharp decline in petroleum output since mid-1974
because of marketing difficulties for Ecuadorian crude in export markets and
a protracted disagreement between the Governmtent and the foreign concession-
aires over the taxatiorn of oil exports. The total offtake of oil dropped
from an average of 232,000 b/d during January-June 1974 to 123,000 b/d during
the second half of 1974, and became irregular in 1975, owing to two breaks
in the trans-Andean pipeline. For 1975, the average production is estimated
at about 165,000 b/d. There has also been a virtual standstill in explora-
tion during the past two years and the level of proven recoverable reserves,
estimated at 1.5 billicn barrels, has remained unchanged.
This document has a resuiived distribution and may be ud by rec4iplm o.nly in the performance
of their ofllcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        The disappointing performance of the petroleum sector had not been
expected by the Government. Counting on rising petroleum income, the Govern-
ment had adopted policies designed to stimulate further growth. It increased
public expenditures -- including subsidies of essential consumption goods;
offered more generous credit programs for agricultural and industrial invest-
ment; and lifted most quantitative import restrictions. In 1974, import
duties were cut by an average of 34 percent. Moreover, imports of agricul-
tural inputs and of essential foodstuffs were fully exempted from duties.
6.        The response of the economy to these policies, and to the prevail-
ing very. optimistic economic climate was, in general, strong. Gross invest-
ment grew by 22 percent in real terms in 1973 and growth of GDP at market
prices reached a rate of about 15 percent, far above historical levels (5.5
percent from 1965 to 1970). Continuing rapid growth in industry, construction,
trade and Government services made it possible to achieve an overall GDP growth
rate of approximately 8 percent in 1974. This was obtained in spite of the
significant decline in the oil sector product, and of the virtual stagnation
of agricultural production -- which was hampered, until early that year, by
the insufficiency of credit availabilities and by the inadequate price policies
followed up to then by the Government.
7.        The rapid economic expansion was accompanied by inflationary
pressures. The cost of living index for low and medium-income families in
Quito, which had risen by about 8 percent per annum during 1971 and 1972, in-
creased by 13 percent during 1973 and by over 23 percent during 1974. While
the inflationary pressure was largely generated by the rapid rise of public
expenditure, the strong expansion of credit to the private sector also con-
tributed to the increasing money supply. Domestic supply could not respond
in full to the growth in demand, which led to higher imports of wheat, oils
and fats, and other products. In construction materials, domestic production
did not keep pace with increases in demand. In manufacturing, the process
of import substitution of finished goods accelerated, leading to rapidly
rising imports of equipment, raw materials and semi-finished products. As
a result, total imports of goods and non-factor services rose from about
$440 million in 1972 to $515 million in 1973 and over $1.0 billion in 1974.
This import growth in part also reflects a rise in import prices of 17 per-
cent in 1973 and 28 percent in 1974. Exports -- also including non-factor
services -- expanded from $365 million in 1972 to about $1.1 billion in 1974.
Of the increase, about 75 percent was accounted for by petroleum.
8.        Despite the growth of imports, Ecuador's balance of payments showed,
until mid-1974, a marked improvement. In 1973, Ecuador achieved the first
surplus in its resource balance since the early 1950s, and net foreign ex-
change reserves rose from $128 million at the end of 1972 to $371 million
by the end of June 1974. However, these favorable trends could not be main-
tained after mid-1974. As oil exports declined and total imports continued
to rise substantially, Ecuador's reserve position began to deteriorate rapid-
ly. By August 15, 1975, the country's net foreign exchange reserves had
fallen to $181 million, equivalent to less than two month's imports.



9.        Until 1974, increasing oil revenues brought about a substantial
improvement of the Government's financial position. For the Central Govern-
ment 1/ -- which received about 54 percent and 57 percent of total oil revenues
in 1973 and 1974 respectively -- these revenues led to a strong increase in
current savings and to an expansion of capital expenditure substantially
above the growth of current expenditure. With current savings rising to
about $68 million in 1973 and $298 million in 1974, the overall cash position
of the Central Government turned from a small deficit in 1973 to a $62 mil-
lion surplus in 1974, despite a more than threefold increase in capital
expenditure in 1974. FONADE, established in late 1973 in an effort to ear-
mark part of the additional oil revenues for the financing of public invest-
ment projects over and above budgetary allocations, disbursed about $93 mil-
lion in 1974. Most of these disbursements helped finance the construction of
the Esmeraldas refinery, and the credit programs of the National Development
Bank and other financial institutions. As a result of the decline of oil
revenues, current savings decreased by an estimated 20 percent in 1975 des-
pite an improved performance of non-oil taxes. These developments led to a
temporary financing gap in the Central Government operations and to the
decision to contain the growth of Government expenditure in 1976.
10.       A number of recent measures have contained the deterioration of
the balance of payments, and foreign exchange reserves are estimated to have
totalled about $245 million by the end of 1975. The measures included a
reduction of the tax-paid cost of petroleum exports by the equivalent of about
US$0.43 per barrel; the concession of higher allowances to oil companies for
their production cost; and the introduction of import restrictions in August
and September 1975. Oil production has recovered, mainly as a result of the
cut-back in the income tax rate in oil exports; and is estimated to have reached
over 210,000 b/d towards the end of 1975.
11.       On October 2, the Government announced new financial objectives
for 1976: to achieve additional increases in foreign exchange reserves and
a more balanced budgetary position, which would make it unnecessary for the
Government to borrow further from the domestic banking system or from foreign
commercial banks durinUg 1976. The Government hopes to reduce the annual rate
of inflation from some 15 percent in 1975 to about 10 percent in 1976. Fur-
ther negotiations withi the oil companies are expected to open the way to
increased exploration and development efforts.
12.       Ecuador's oLl production is now expected to increase gradually
and to reach about 270,000 b/d by 1979-80. An expansion beyond this level
appears feasible, provided that a vigorous exploration and development pro-
gram can be brought un:derway in the near future. Increasing export earnings
from petroleum, coffee, sugar and manufactured goods, combined with a net
inflow of foreign capital in the order of $265 million a year during 1976-80
-- needed largely to Einance new gas and oil-related ventures -- should make
1/   Including the Naitional Development Fund (FONADE) and the National
Participation Fund.



-4-
a substantial improvement of the overall balance of payments situation pos-
sible after 1976, and permit a moderate increase in foreign exchange reserves.
The extent to vhich Ecuador's balance of payments situation will actually
improve depends largely on the success of immediate stabilization policies,
the development of oil production, the behavior of oil prices, and the mobili-
zation of foreign capital.
13.       Although the oil sector will continue to be the major source of
foreign exchange in the medium term, there are considerable uncertainties with
respect to the possible production profile of this sector in the longer run.
Most of the oil likely to be produced until the early 1980s has already been
found. Unless exploration efforts are substantially stepped up and new oil
fields are discovered, production could decline soon afterwards. To make the
most efficient use of oil revenues, the Government therefore intends to begin
to diversify the production base of the economy by developing agricultural and
industrial activities in which the country has a potential comparative advan-
tage. Exports other than oil need to be developed - for example, natural
gas, and agricultural and forest resources. An appropriate use of the finan-
cial resources provided by oil will also make it possible to alleviate the
country's most pressing social needs. However, Ecuador continues to be one
of the poorest countries in Latin America, with an estimated per capita income
of $450 in 1974, and a large proportion of the population living at subsis-
tence levels. Oil has only shifted Ecuador from the upper strata of the
poorest countries to the lower brackets of the middle income developing coun-
tries.
14.       The Government several years ago designed an ambitious development
strategy. It is reflected in the 1973-77 Plan Integral de Transformacion y
Desarrollo and focuses on (a) promoting the diversification of the economy by
fostering agricultural and industrial development; (b) alleviating poverty in
the countryside through rural development programs; (c) upgrading social ser-
vices; (d) expanding infrastructure; and (e) improving the absorptive capacity
by overcoming major bottlenecks to development, notably the shortage of quali-
fied manpower and the administrative weakness of the public sector.
15.       To pursue these broad objectives, efforts have been made to improve
the investment capacity of the public sector. In 1973, a preinvestment fund
(FONAPRE) was set up to finance prefeasibility and feasibility studies. Inven-
tories of projects and project ideas were compiled in the entire public sector.
Also the Government has been able to increase public investment rapidly. How-
ever, progress has been slow in sectoral planning - particularly in setting
investment priorities in some major sectors - and in the coordination of
investments by region. The proposed project would help overcome these short-
comings in the agricultural sector.
16.       Ecuador's development needs, as well as persistent structural and
institutional weaknesses, call for continued external assistance. Although
the country's creditworthiness has improved greatly, it would not be sound
policy for Ecuador to rely on the private capital market as the sole source



of external finance. Nieither the amounts nor the terms available to Ecuador
in the market would malke this advisable. Rather, a mixture of commercial and
official financing will best suit Ecuador's needs during the next few years.
17.       Ecuador is creditworthy for further lending at Bank terms.  The
external public debt outstanding on December 31, 1974 was estimated at
US$530 million, of which US$297 million was disbursed. Service on outstand-
ing public debt is relatively moderate -- about $85 million in 1975, equiva-
lent to about 8.0 percent of the exports of goods and non-factor services.
The debt service ratio is projected to fall to approximately 4 percent in
1979-80. The Bank/IDA share in outstanding and disbursed public debt as of
December 31, 1974 was about 19.7 percent; it is expected to rise.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
18.       Starting wit] the first loan in 1954, the Bank and IDA have made
twelve loans and six credits to Ecuador totalling US$150.0 million, net of
cancellations. At the end of January 1976, the Bank and IDA held about
US$115 million, includ:Lng about US$45.2 million not yet disbursed. IFC
has made five loan and investment commitments in Ecuador, two in a large
textile company and three in a development finance company, amounting to
US$4.3 million of which, as of January 31, 1976, US$2.7 million had been
sold, terminated or cancelled. In addition, IFC is considering a loan to
help finance the expansion of sugar production in the Guayaquil area and a
plywood mill near Esmeraldas. Execution of Bank Group financed projects has,
on the whole, been satisfactory, even though it has not been free of difficul-
ties often caused by the insufficiency of the country's managerial and tech-
nical resources -- a constraint that still is a major obstacle for Ecuador's
economic and social development. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of January 31, 1976, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
19,       Bank and IDA lending were originally concentrated in transportation
and power, where there were substantial deficiencies to be overcome. These
two sectors still account, respectively, for about 25 percent and 10 percent
of total past lending. Most of the lending for transportation was to im-
prove the road network of the country, although one loan was made to help
finance a new port in Guayaquil (FY59). Lending for power has been concen-
trated in improving generation and distribution facilities in Quito. The
first livestock development loan'(FY67) marked the beginning of a diversifica-
tion of lending; since then, the Bank and IDA have made four more loans and
credits for agriculture and fisheries, two loans to support industrial devel-
opment through two development finance companies, two loans for education
and one loan for water supply. Bank/IDA assistance for the commodity produc-
ing and social sectors account now for about 55 percent of total lending.



- 6 -
20.       External development financing has also been provided by IDB and
AID and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources. External financ-
ing by sector and by source through 1974 is summarized below:
(US$ millions, Figures Net of Cancellations)
IBRD           IDA             IDB        AID
Lending 1954-64                54.0           8.0           35.3       67.7
Lending 1965-74                59.5          28.9          232.6       42.0
Transport                                                 18.0
Power                                       6.8           67.7        3,6
Education                                   5,1            4.1        5.3
Health and Sanitation        23.2                         49.3         2.8
Agriculture and Fisheries     8.3          17.0           53.7        10.8
Industry                    28.0                          21.2        8.0
Urban Development                                         14.4
Other                                                      4.2        11.5
113.5          36.9           267.9      109.7
IDB is the largest single lender, having extended most of its loans to
Ecuador from the Fund for Special Operations, which has normally carried a
2 percent interest rate, a ten-year grace period, and repayment terms of up
to forty years. It is likely that IDB will remain the major development
lender in the immediate future, although the terms will be less concessionary
than in the past. AID loans generally have had amortization and grace
periods similar to those of IDB, with interest at 2-3 percent. Education,
health and other socially oriented activities, as well as agricultural
development, have been receiving increasing attention from the external
lending agencies in recent years. IDB, AID and the Bank Group have
coordinated their efforts in these fields to assure the most effective use
of all available resources.
21.       Bank lending is aimed at supporting the Government priorities out-
lined in Part I above. This objective will be met by emphasizing projects
that will help strengthen the institutional framework for development policy
-- particularly concerning project planning, preparation and implementation
-- in agriculture and rural development, transportation and other high
priority activities. The highway project, and the Second Port of Guayaquil
project, which are being processed for your consideration, will complete an
important stage of the Bank's involvement in Ecuador's transport sector.
These two projects are designed to help the Government establish the adminis-
trative mechanisms and technical procedures required for designing and imple-
menting appropriate policies and investment projects in the sector during
future years, while assisting also in the overcoming of some major trans-
?ortation bottlenecks.



22.       Beyond those two transportation projects, the current Bank program
is heavily concentrated on agricultural and rural development. The Bank
can undertake a major institution-building effort in these fields, which
should yield tangible benefits for Ecuador. Agriculture is, at the same
time, the most import.nt and the most neglected sector of the the Ecuadorian
economy. Its potential is far from being adequately realized and its low
productivity is a main cause of the extreme poverty in which most of the
Ecuadorian population still lives. The current Bank program includes a sub-
stantial support for Lntegrated rural development projects and important
assistance for the development of the country's agricultural potential. All
projects programmed for this sector include sizable technical assistance
components as a major part of the overall institution-building effort re-
ferred to above.  This is reflected particularly in the project that I now
submit for your consideration to aid Ecuador in the preparation of agricul-
tural and rural development projects. Other projects in this sector which
I expect to present to you during the next two years include one for agri-
cultural credit and two rural development projects. Moreover, most of the
other projects currently under consideration -- for instance, rural roads,
rural electrification and agro-industries - are also related to the major
objectives referred to above for agricultural and rural development.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
23.       Agriculture is the most important sector of the Ecuadorian economy
in terms of output and employment, and second only to oil as a source of
foreign exchange earnings. It has a large growth potential, but it is also
the sector with the most serious institutional and social problems, and the
one with the poorest performance in recent years. The Government's 1968
Agricultural Census showed that one-third of farm holdings were less than
1 ha, and that three of every four farms were smaller than 5 ha, yet these
75% of all farm holdings comprised only 10% of total agricultural acreage.
The results of the 1974 census, currently being analyzed, are not expected
to show any major change. Partly as a consequence of this situation, and
also, of the very low productivity levels which prevail in most of this
sector, an estimated 1.5 million, the poorer half of the rural population,
had per capita incomes in 1974 of less than the amount estimated to be needed
for basic nutritional requirements. Three-fourths of the rural population
earned less than one-third of the national average annual per capita income. By
contrast, the 1968 census indicated that the wealthiest 10Z of the economic-
ally active rural population received about 60% of agricultural income. This
situation has been aggravated by the virtual stagnation that has prevailed
in agriculture during recent years. Food production per capita showed barely
any increase in the early 1970s and then slipped in 1973. The overall rate
of agricultural growth was only 0.7% per year from 1972 to 1974. Real per
capita GDP in agriculture diminished from 1969 to 1973 at an average yearly
rate of 2.4%. Since growth in other sectors was quite strong at the same
time, this trend has increased the difference between rural and urban income
levels, and has also widened the gap between the demand and supply of agri-
cultural and livestock products. This resulted in serious food shortages,
significant inflationary pressures and a soaring food import bill.



24.       Ecuador's agricultural potential is large enough to permit a rapid
reversal of these disappointing trends. The country has a favorable endowment
of the resources needed for a varied and far greater output. There are size-
able amounts of uncultivated land, some in almost completely unexploited zones,
that could be developed for agriculture and livestock. Some events of the past
decade - the remarkably fast transfer of banana production from the Gros
Michel to the Cavendish variety; the return of rice to the array of traditional
exports; and the record cocoa and sugar yields in 1974 - all suggest a promising
capability for achieving greater agricultural output. This potential, however,
will not be easily realized. Over 40 percent of the unexploited arable land
and grassland of Ecuador is in the eastern Amazon area of the Oriente which
has soil and other resource problems and is largely isolated and uninhabited.
Another one-third of potential additional agricultural land is in the Andean
highlands where erosion  and population pressures have constrained growth
possibilities. The remaining third of the potential agricultural land is in
the coastal zone which suffers from flooding and insufficient drainage in the
areas with the best soils. Furthermore, agricultural production in Ecuador has
risen more in the past through the extension of the cultivated area than by
the adoption of improved techniques. The agricultural sector has operated
largely without the support of extension services; of credit, storage and
marketing facilities; and of improved seeds and other inputs.   Technological
progress in Ecuador's agriculture -- particularly in small farms -- has, there-
fore, been very slow. As a consequence, average national yields are lower than
those in adjoining countries.
25.       The present Government has reacted positively to these problems in
its recent actions, reflecting its appreciation of the importance of the
future of agriculture. Since the beginning of 1974, the Government has raised
producer prices, increased the flow of credit, reduced import duties on agri-
cultural inputs, and reduced sales taxes on those intermediate and capital
goods used in farming to offset their rising costs. Producer support prices
were raised for rice, meat, milk, sugar, wheat and oil seeds to counter the
deterioration of farmers' terms of trade. The Banco Nacional de Fomento --
which is receiving a large share of the country's oil revenues -- increased
credit to the agriculture sector from $23 million in 1972 to $45 million in
1973 and $105 million (US$ equivalents) in 1974. Moreover, a Seeds Corporation
was formed in 1974 to promote the production of certified seed, an activity which
will be assisted by the Bank loan proposed this year for this purpose. Agri-
cultural policy continued to improve during 1975. In January of that year,
the Minister of Agriculture announced an ambitious mechanization program and
plans to expand storage facilities while the Monetary Board made loans to
agriculture more profitable for the commercial banks than those to industry and
to the commercial sector. The Government also announced during the year its
intention to allocate to agriculture and rural development a higher share of
total public expenditure. At the same time, it has requested Bank technical
and financial support for several projects in these fields.
26.       On the whole, these policies point in the right direction and
are already achieving some success, although they still need substantial re-
inforcement. Overall agricultural production in 1974 was impaired by massive



- 9 -
increases in the import prices of machinery, fertilizer, and other agricul-
tural inputs. The prevailing poor weather, and some uncertainty among land-
owners following the approval of the October 1973 agrarian reform law, also
have made it difficult to achieve substantial progress toward solving the
main pending problems of the sector. Despite these negative factors, however,
the previous inadequate production trends have been partly reversed. During
1974, there was an increase in wheat production for the first time since 1969
(up 13 percent). At the same time, production of rice rose by 17 percent, of
cocoa by 50 percent, and of cotton by 65 percent. The preliminary data avail-
able for 1975 indicate that agricultural output for domestic consumption has
increased significantly with some crops, such as cotton, corn and rice provid-
ing surpluses for export:. Moreover, the new emphasis placed by the Government
on rural development has already made possible some progress toward improved
coordination of policies affecting the rural population. At the same time,
the Government has alreaidy started the preparation of several integrated rural
development projects.
27.       In an attempt to expand and improve these initiatives, the Govern-
ment requested the Bank in late 1974 to apply its worldwide experience in
rural development to Ecuador's rural poverty problem and to concentrate its
future lending substantially on rural development and the expansion of agri-
cultural output. In March 1975, a Bank mission assessed Ecuador's situation
and outlined a series of measures needed to initiate a more adequate rural
development program. Thbe suggestions included basic organizational changes to
improve the Government'sE planning and control of rural development activities;
policy areas in which complementary actions were required; promising project
possibilities in the Andean highlands and in the coastal regions; and the
areas in which technical assistance is needed. The Ecuadorian officials have
indicated substantial agreement with these recommendations, and have requested
the Bank to provide the technical assistance for these purposes which is
included in this project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
28.       The project is based on a Government request in August 1975 for Bank
technical assistance in its rural development efforts and on the findings of
a Bank appraisal mission to Ecuador in October 1975. Negotiations were held
in Washington in February 1976. The Ecuadorian delegation was led by Mr. Manuel
Zalisto, Executive Manager of the National Pre-Investment Fund (FONAPRE) and
included representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock as well
as of the Commission of Studies for Development of the Guayas Basin (CEDEGE)
and the Institute of Hydraulic Resources (INERHI).
General Description
29.       The proposed project would support a three-year program of assistance
to the Government in plainning activities aimed at benefitting the rural poor
and increasing agricultural production. A clearer definition of the Govern-
ment's rural development policy and more substantial programs are needed,



- 10 -
together with strengthened Government agencies and coordination of their
activities. These and similar problems partly reflect the limited technical
capabilities of the various national and regional agencies and, even more,
the fact that Ecuador's new commitment to rural development has exceeded its
supply of specialized personnel. The Government has recognized these problems
and has been actively exploring ways in which to increase the level of tech-
nical assistance for these purposes. The proposed project is designed to
support the Government's efforts. It would provide technical assistance to
supplement and make more effective use of the limited trained manpower and
the financial resources presently available and committed to rural develop-
ment. 1/ Improving the local capability to plan and program rural development
activities will inevitably take some time and involve considerable training.
Accordingly, it is also proposed that some technical assistance be provided
that would generate new project proposals in a shorter time frame than would
otherwise be possible. Projects are expected to emerge from this assistance
that would benefit farmers at low income levels in two backward areas of the
country and that would, at the same time, make a substantial contribution to
the pressing need for increased food production. Further, the proposed studies
leading to a long-range water-control plan in the Guayas Basin would serve
to eliminate a fundamental natural obstacle that now impedes agricultural and
rural development activities in an extensive and fertile area.
30.       The proposed project would include:
(a) Establishment and training of a planning and project preparation
group within the Planning Board (JUNAPLA), designed to provide
national leadership in policy analysis and direction of all Govern-
ment activity related to rural development;
(b) Preparation of one or two rural and agricultural development
projects in the Lower Guayas Basin, and carrying out studies
contributing to a long-range water-control and agricultural
development plan for that Basin;
(c) Preparation of two rural development projects in the mountainous
highlands of the Andes in the province of Tungurahua; and
(d) Preinvestment studies of rural development possibilities in the
Esmeraldas river basin.
31.       The proposed project would lay the basis for an enlarged Bank role
in Ecuador's rural development efforts during the next few years. The techni-
cal assistance provided under the proposed arrangements is expected to help
complete the preparation of several projects for which Bank financing is
envisaged.
1/   In these respects, the proposed technical assistance illustrates the
''rural preparation" type of projects envisaged for situations in which
improved planning capabilities are principally required (ref. Report No.
588 entitled "Rural Development and Bank Policies", December 2, 1974,
para. 3.40).



Subprojects
Rural Development Planning Group
32.       Rural development planning has begun in Ecuador but suffers from
several deficiencies. These include the lack of: a national plan that would
establish Ecuador's objectives and programs for rural development; a suffic-
ient number of adequately prepared projects; and a high-level national in-
stitution charged with addressing the problems of rural poverty. Neither is
there an organization which is capable of preparing the projects designed to
attack these problems. An Office of Rural Development of the Ministry of
Agriculture was founded in 1973. This unit has taken the initiative to define
a preliminary rural development strategy statement and a project list. In
the main, however, the list represents primarily ideas about possible projects,
few of which are being or could be prepared by the Office's present staff.
The Office does not have the planning authority over the different ministries
and regional and independent agencies to provide the leadership and guidance
they require for their participation in rural development.
33.       An effective planning system therefore is needed which can serve to
exert national policy direction and to give impetus to the preparation of
rural development projects. The Government of Ecuador has recognized this
requirement and is taking steps to assign to the JUNAPLA the responsibility
for overall rural development planning. JUNAPLA has long been charged with
overall direction of public sector planning in Ecuador, marked by its for-
mulation of the national Plan Integral de Transformacion y Desarrollo. Its
principal work up to recently also has involved both macroeconomic and sectoral
analysis, the framework for regional planning and its participation in the
coordination of foreign assistance. JUNAPLA's role has been strengthened by
the additional responsibility for overseeing annual investment budget decisions.
Furthermore, its affiliate, the National Pre-Investment Fund (FONAPRE), has
made an effective start, in its relatively brief existence towards giving the
Government a significarit project preparation capability. JUNAPLA is well
situated accordingly for its projected assignment for rural development plan-
ning, while the Office of Rural Development would be primarily responsible
for conducting certain studies and project implementation. JUNAPLA's staff
will need considerable strengthening for this purpose in terms of both addi-
tional personnel and their training.
34.       To accomplish the above functions, JUNAPLA has agreed to establish
within its organization a rural development planning unit which is considered
necessary in view of its increased responsibilities in this field. The unit
would be in charge of the national rural development program. It would be
responsible for: formuilating a national policy for rural development; co-
ordinating actions of diverse Government entities; controlling the allocation
of resources in this field; developing criteria for project planning and
coordination of foreign assistance. It would play a major role in identifying
and formulating high-priority projects. At the outset, the functioning of
this unit would be handicapped by the limited number of skilled Ecuadorians



- 12 -
with rural development expertise. Accordingly, the first subproject of the
proposed loan would help to launch this unit by the provision of inter-
nationally recruited specialists who would be employed to assist the local
staff over a three-year period. The team, including a rural development
specialist with experience under conditions similar to those in Ecuador,
would be appointed with the approval of the Bank (ref. Section 3.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement). It is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Loan that the rural development specialist had been contracted and his
counterpart appointed by the Government (ref. Section 5.01(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
35.       The work of the specialists provided under the subproject would fall
into two categories. The general rural development specialist would concentra-
te on the overall planning and organizational aspects. He would assist JUNAPLA
in formulating a national policy in this sector and a plan for its implemen-
tation. He would assess JUNAPLA's methodology and procedures to determine
what changes may be needed to adapt them to the complexities of integrated
rural development. He would also examine and recommend whatever revisions
appear necessary in the Government's machinery for controlling the allocations
of resources for rural development; and for analyzing the impact of proposed
decisions on target populations and on agricultural development. This specia-
list would help to design such new organizational arrangements as may be re-
quired to facilitate the conduct of rural development activities. The other
team members (supplemented by others who may be financed by the UNDP) would
concentrate on identifying the principal opportunities for investments in
rural development and on guiding the detailed preparation of projects in this
field. They would assist in drafting terms of reference for the selected
socio-economic and technical studies necessary for the formulation of the
individual project possibilities. They would be expected moreover to help
evaluate proposals by consultants, negotiate contracts and supervise the studies
during their execution. In view of the broad range of specialist competence
which is likely to be required, the subproject would include provisions for
additional internationally recruited short-term consultants for advice in
particular areas. Support services for the team of specialists including
necessary vehicles and office equipment would also be provided. Furthermore,
in order to enable the Government to develop an adequate corps of skilled per-
sonnel, the subproject would involve the development of an in-service training
program in rural development. This would be supplemented by the provision of
funds for 88 man-months of training in Ecuador and abroad in project prepara-
tion and evaluation techniques. These would be made available to suitably
qualified candidates from JUNAPLA and other key development-related national
and regional agencies.
Lower Guayas Basin
36.       The Guayas basin covers 3.5 million ha or approximately half the
coastal region of Ecuador. It is situated just south of the equator between
a low coastal mountain range and the high Andes. Its climate is hot and humid,
with average monthly temperatures ranging between 23' and 27' C and an average
annual rainfall of 1,500 mm or higher. The Guayas basin had 2.3 million
people in 1971, about one-third of the national population. In the period
1971-73, the population of the basin has grown at 5.4 percent per annum (5.2



- 13 -
percent in the city of Guayaquil) in comparision with the overall 3.4 percent
growth rate for the country, thus indicating the extent of migration into not
only the metropolitan center but even more so to the rural areas. This partly
reflects the increased Government-directed investment in the coastal lowlands
since agricultural production demands have begun to outstrip the productive
capacity of the central highlands. The lowlands have favorable conditions
for substantial agricultural production similar to such areas as the river
deltas of the Mekong, Ganges, Irrawaddy and Mississippi. But, although the
physical endowment has attracted people from the highlands, the rural popu-
lation in the Guayas basin suffers under adverse economic and social condi-
tions. Health services and schooling are deficient. Unemployment is esti-
mated at 15 percent with much higher under-employment, and land ownership
is very unequal (72 percent of farmers with less than 10 ha each own 4 percent
of the land while 59 percent of the total farm land is owned by 1.1 percent
of the farmers who have more than 500 ha each).
37.       The Lower Guayas Basin covers about 1.5 million ha, including the
ecologically similar area extending to the Naranjal river. It has excellent
soils but suffers from poor drainage and serious annual floods. According to
recent estimates, at least 200,000 ha in this Basin are flooded every year
because of river overflow and insufficient drainage of rainfall. The flooding
and poor drainage cause large-scale crop losses (mainly rice), serious damage
to roads and buildings, and poor sanitary conditions, especially in villages
and small towns. Moreover, haphazard construction of roads and dikes, in the
absence of any plan, is progressively worsening the situation.
38.       For some time now, Ecuadorian planners and agricultural advisors
have concentrated their attention on the potential of the coastal area for
irrigation, with only secondary emphasis on its flood-control and drainage
requirements. This concentration results from a tradition of irrigation,
largely rudimentary, practiced for centuries in the comparatively dry Sierra.
The lack of emphasis on flood control and drainage in the Lower Guayas Basin
is due moreover to lack of a comprehensive long-range plan. This deficiency
has been caused in large part by absence of adequate basic data such as aerial
photography and topographic maps. These data are crucial for planning efforts
particularly in the cenl:er and eastern sections of the basin where flood con-
trol has to be carried out through a system of dikes, floodways, drainage
canals and river channel. improvements since sites for storage reservoirs are
lacking. Such works, if properly planned and phased, would contribute to a
very significant increase of the agricultural production of this fertile
region (preliminary estilmates range between 5 and 10 times) and to improving
the living conditions of the rural poor. They are moreover considerably less
costly per hectare than conventional irrigation projects.
39.       The subproject: would provide funds for the following:
(a) identification and preparation of one or two agricultural and rural
development projects, covering an area of about 100,000 ha each, as
the first phase of an overall development plan for the zone; and



- 14 -
(b) studies of the Lower Guayas Basin to contribute to a plan for
agricultural development and water control.
40.       The subproject would provide for the services of internationally
recruited specialists, the purchase of equipment and the training of local
professionals. The work would be divided into three phases. In the first
phase, the presently available information would be analyzed during a 2-3
month period by a team of high-level consultants and Ecuadorian counterparts;
the team would also draft terms of reference for studies to be carried out
during the second and third phases. The team would include specialists in
mapping, flood control, drainage and irrigation, tropical crops, especially
rice; and soils and land classification. In the second phase, estimated to
require about one year, a firm would carry out the required aerial photography,
mapping and ground surveys. The third phase would include two components:
(a) preparation of one or two agricultural and rural development projects,
each 100,000 ha in extent, oriented to increase agricultural production and
to improve the living conditions of the rural poor. (Given the unequal land
distribution in the area and the awareness of the Government of the resulting
problems, the studies would include an analysis of the present situation and
of measures to ameliorate the land ownership pattern.); and (b) investigations
of the water and soils resources of the total area leading to a long-range
"framework plan" 1/ for water control and agricultural development, (the
investigations would include development of a mathematical model to assist
in evaluating alternative flood control and drainage solutions).
41.       The subproject would provide for the services of internationally
recruited specialists, training of counterparts, mapping and equipment. The
consultants would, during a three-year period, include specialists in the
fields of flood control, drainage, irrigation, agriculture and rural develop-
ment, soil and land classification, agricultural economics and mapping (160
man-months approximately). They would work with CEDEGE, which is responsible
for most of this zone and has experience in related studies, and with the
Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidraulicos (INERHI), the national agency
responsible for developing water resources (which is executing the Milagro
irrigation project financed by IDA Credit 425). To supervise the work of the
aforementioned specialists, for which they have suitable experience, the two
agencies would provide about 300 man-months of services of Ecuadorian pro-
fessionals, including professionals experienced in hydrology, soils investi-
gations, topographic surveys, and socio-economic surveys. The subproject
would also provide the funds for producing topographic maps of the area in-
cluding the necessary aerial photography and the survey of cross sections of
the major river channels. The subproject furthermore would include survey
equipment and vehicles to facilitate the field investigations, as well as
provisions for training counterparts to the foreign specialists. A total of
40 man-months is foreseen for specialized training both in Ecuador and abroad.
1/   A framework plan may be described as a study of physical and human
resources and socio-economic conditions considering a variety of objec-
tives for a region, giving a first approximation of the region's potential
and of a long-range development plan.



- 15 -
Tungurahua Province
42.       Tungurahua Province is in the center of the Ecuadorian high Andes
about 140 km south of Quito. It covers an area of 320,000 ha at altitudes
ranging from 2,400 to 3,600 m and has a population of 270,000, two-thirds of
whom live in rural areas. Characteristic of this, as well as other mountainous
provinces of Ecuador, are steep slopes, deeply eroded side valleys, fertile
but narrow main valleysi, low levels of rainfall in the interandean valleys
(about 500 mm annually) and a climate with hardly any seasonal changes. These
areas have been overpopulated historically. They have a much worse man/land
ratio than the coastal regions. Landholdings in the Andes are on the average
one-third the size of t:hose on the coast; in some areas, small holdings con-
sist of less than 1 ha., The rural population density in the highlands averages
3 persons per ha of cultivated land, but reached 8 persons in Tungurahua Pro-
vince in 1974. Althouph some emigration has taken place, substantial un- and
underemployment persist: and many farmers are forced to work part of the year
in other regions of the country. Social services, such as schooling, health
services and potable water supply are deficient or non-existent, especially
at higher altitudes.
43.       The Government recognizes these problems and is likewise well awarp
that the limitations of- the resource base are paralleled by social constraints.
Many thousand families., a substantial portion of the economically active people
in agriculture, are boxnd to their subsistence plots by cultural heritage and
limited possibilities of participation in colonization schemes. Nevertheless,
there are significant opportunities for increasing the productive capacities
of these small-sized farm owners and for expanding the output of high-value
crops, livestock and forestry. The Government is cognizant of the need to
make greater progress :Ln the highlands if it is to make any inroads in allevia-
ting the conditions of rural poverty and, as its initial major rural develop-
ment effort in the Sierra, the Government has chosen Tungurahua Province, where
several possible rural development projects have been identified.
44.       The subproject would involve studies of two adjacent areas, Huachi-
Pelileo and Quero. These particular areas have been selected because they
typify the problems of the mountain zone and would thus serve as an example
for the development of other areas of the Province, and because the Government
has already made a substantial beginning in preparing rural development pro-
jects there. In October 1975, the Government established a special inter-
ministerial task-force for this purpose, consisting of representatives of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG), JUNAPLA and INERHI as well as
participants from the Provincial Council of Tungurahua. The proposed Huachi-
Pelileo Project covers an area of some 11,000 ha, a part of which is currently
partially irrigated, located between 2,500 m and 2,900 m altitude, where some
2,300 families derive t:heir main source of living from agricultural activities.
It is estimated that about 96 percent of the existing 1,300 farms are not
larger than 5 ha each and the balance composed of farms not larger than 35 ha
each. Of the total project area, about 8,000 ha are considered arable. Flat
lands predominate over steep terrain; natural drainage is good and soils are
of adequate agricultural characteristics. Most of the area is utilized for
production of annual crops and forage, a small percentage for fruit trees.



- 16 -
The main annual crops are potatoes, corn, wheat and vegetables. Factors limit-
ing production are insufficient water during the growing season, low quality
seeds and plant varieties, inadequate credit and technical assistance, limited
use of fertilizer and inadequate marketing. While irrigation is essential to
achieve substantially higher levels of production and productivity in cereals,
potatoes, fruits, vegetables and forage crops, there is also a need for
agricultural services and social infrastructure in the project area. In
addition to updating previous studies of the Huachi-Pelileo project, the sub-
project would include an examination of agricultural extension and credit,
storage and marketing facilities, applied agricultural research, potable
water, health services and primary schools.
45.       The second project covers the Quero canton of 18,370 ha which has a
population of 13,200 persons at altitudes ranging from 2,900 to 3,600 m. There
are 3,132 farms in the project area currently cropping some 4,800 ha and with
4,677 ha in pastures. The main crops are potatoes, onions and maize with
smaller areas in broad beans, barley and garlic. The project proposal focuses
on raising agricultural production through better inputs -- primarily fertili-
zer, pesticides and improved seeds -- and improving the living standards of
the smaller farmers with less than 14 ha (98 percent of the farms occupying
42 percent of the farming area); for 87 percent of the target group in the
project area, per capita income is now below $240 per annum. The project also
would include a health program (potable water, health services and latrines),
roads and community centers. The proposed project, according to MAG's esti-
mates, would triple the value of farm production and double the level of farm
employment.
46.       The subproject would emphasize the provision of technical services
to bring the two rural development projects to the feasibility stage level.
The subproject would provide for 30 man-months of foreign consultant services
including specialists in agriculture, agricultural economics, agricultural
extension, irrigation, groundwater, geology, and soil and land classification.
Ecuadorian-counterpart professionals, to the extent of 75 man-months, would
be primarily furnished by INERHI which has considerable experience in working
with foreign consultants. These counterparts would include specialists in
agriculture, economics, sociology, education, civil engineering, hydrology
and rural works engineering. The subproject would provide as well for asso-
ciated equipment and for the necessary geological investigations. Further,
the subproject would include a pre-investment study of the possibility of
developing a small industrial estate in the provincial capital of Ambato,
which would increase employment opportunities near the area of the proposed
rural development projects.
Esmeraldas Basin
47.       The Esmeraldas River Basin, the second most extensive on the
Pacific Coast, includes both the Pichincha and Esmeraldas Provinces. The
latter has 1.5 million ha of the total basin area of 2.1 million ha; its
population has approximately doubled between 1955 and 1974 to some 203,000
persons (65 percent rural). Despite this substantial immigration, the popula-
tion density is still relatively low; large parts of the province are still



- 17 -
in the public domain and covered by virgin, humid-tropical forest. Precipi-
tation ranges from 1,000 mm annually on the coast up to 3,500 mm inland at
the foot of the Andes. Soils are shallow and frequently difficult to manage
but are suitable for major crops (bananas, lemons, mangoes, oil palm and
cotton) and pastures.
48.       Since the mid-1960's, the economy of the lower basin area has
suffered from a decline in banana production. Owing to a change in consumer
preferences, the effects of the Panama disease and a shift to the Cavendish
variety, the center of Ecuador's banana industry has moved to the south. In
Esmeraldas and Pichinclha Provinces about 80% of the arable area is now cul-
tivated, while there are 740,000 ha of pastures and 2,000,000 ha of forests.
The provision of economic and social infrastructure and social services to the
zone has not kept pace with the rapid population growth. Illiteracy in the
rural areas is higher than the national average, and health services are poor
by national standards. Owing to these factors and the physical potential of
the basin, the Government attaches considerable priority to activities designed
to improve conditions therein.
49.       Over the past three years, the Organization of American States (OAS)
has conducted studies Df the land and water resources in the Esmeraldas basin
and their development potential. The studies which are of pre-feasibility
level, will be available by mid-1976 and will provide the background for the
activities to be carried out under this subproject.
50.       The subproject would provide the personnel and associated equipment
needed to prepare 2 or 3 agriculture and/or rural development projects. During
a first phase lasting about 3 months, a team of specialists from the Bank/FAO
Cooperative Program 1/ would review the OAS findings and prepare terms of refer-
ence for the feasibility studies for 2 or 3 projects, which studies would be
carried out during the second phase of the subproject. One of these projects
would very likely be located in the Zona Cuadrangular, located in the center
of the Esmeraldas basiin. With a total of 180,000 ha of which 110,000 ha are
considered arable, the Zona Cuadrangular would be devoted to African oil-palm,
rubber and improved pasture. Most of the project area is now uninhabited and
the main infrastructure investment required is for feeder roads. In the portion
of the area that is al:ready settled by "colonos", there is also need for
social-infrastructure investment. A second promising project possibility is
for a combined plantation-mill operation to produce banana meal, as proposed
by a recent sector study. A third project possibility would be one based on
various opportunities fEor small-scale industrial activities in the basin. For
these 3 project-preparation efforts under the subproject, the Bank loan would
finance 44 man-months of services from consultants as well as the necessary
equipment and logistical support. Some 60 man-months of Ecuadorian counterparts
in these same fields would be provided by related agencies.
1/   These services would be financed by the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program
budget.



- 18 -
Execution
51.       The overall responsibility for the execution of the proposed project
would be assigned to JUNAPLA. JUNAPLA would designate a full-time coordinator
who would oversee all of the aforementioned activities, assisted by the leader
of the team of internationally recruited specialists. The appointment of the
project coordinator and his assumption of his duties comprise a condition of
effectiveness (ref. Section 5.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). His functions
are envisaged as (a) monitoring and reviewing the operations of the subproject
teams; (b) ensuring the adequacy of their logistical and administrative
support; (c) maintaining adequate liaison between the teams, the Government
agencies involved, and the Bank for the project's operations; and (d) ex-
pediting arrangements for consultant contracts. In this capacity, the
coordinator would seek to ensure that Ecuadorian personnel in sufficient
numbers and skills are assigned to the subproject teams. It will be neces-
sary also for JUNAPLA to supervise the selection, preparation and implementa-
tion of the studies, and to ensure that suitable arrangements are made to
implement projects emerging from them.
52.       For the execution of each subproject, a Government agency would be
designated in consultation with the Bank. CEDEGE in cooperation with INERHI,
as indicated in para 41, would be responsible for the Lower Guayas Basin sub-
project. (The inter-ministerial task force referred to in para 44 would con-
tinue its work on the two Tungurahua Province studies.) The Esmeraldas Basin
subproject involves various agencies and therefore needs a coordinating unit.
JUNAPLA would establish such a unit composed of representatives of the
participating agencies. Teams of Ecuadorian specialists from each one of the
designated agencies led by team leaders would be assisted by internationally
recruited consultants. The appointment of the Government team leaders for
each subproject would be a condition of disbursement for the funds provided
by the proposed loan for the respective studies (ref. Schedule 1, para 3b of
the draft Loan Agreement). The Government teams responsible for the various
subprojects will prepare terms of reference for such studies, prequalify
consulting firms, select the consultants for the studies, and enter into
contracts with them -- all subject to approval of the Bank. Entering into
such contracts would be a condition of disbursement for the funds provided
(ref. Schedule 1, para. 3(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
33.       In carrying out that work, the Government teams would obtain sub-
stantial support from FONAPRE, the Government's principal arm for financing
and overseeing preinvestment studies. Although it is an autonomous public
entity, FONAPRE is affiliated with JUNAPLA with which it works quite closely.
The President of JUNAPLA presides over the Fund's board of directors and has
to approve all its decisions. FONAPRE was established in December 1973 to
encourage the steady flow of well prepared investment projects in an ex-
peditious and orderly manner, and has done so. Its latest report indicates
that FONAPRE has already approved 41 preinvestment studies in a range of
productive and infrastructure fields, and is now examining 12 additional



- 19 -
proposals. FONAPRE a:Lso has been administering a technical assistance fund
provided by the IADB. FONAPRE has a small staff which is supplemented by
JUNAPLA's functional specialists. Its professionals are well supervised and
their capacity to develop and review projects is growing. On the basis of
this potential, FONAPRE will assist JUNAPLA to discharge its overall respon-
sibilities for the project by making important contributions regarding the
studies at several stages. FONAPRE keeps a register of consultants and
would advise the subproject team leaders on their selection and approval.
It would review the details on the estimated cost and terms of reference for
the studies, and the 'List of prequalified consulting firms. Apart from
advising JUNAPLA on these matters, FONAPRE would also prepare the contracts
for all consulting services as part of the package for each study to be
approved by JUNAPLA. Finally, although the bulk of detailed supervision of
the consultants' work will be borne by each subproject team, FONAPRE would
assist in the supervision of ongoing studies through its review of consultant
reports.
Costs and Financing
54.       The overall cost of the project is estimated at US$5.6 million
equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of US$4 million. Its
composition is reflected in Table 1 which follows. The proposed Bank loan
would finance the foreign exchange cost with the Government financing the
remainder. Up to now, external financing of preinvestment studies in Ecuador
has been provided to a considerable extent by the UNDP. However, that program
is now fully committed for the remainder of its present 5-year authority
(1972-76), and cannot meet all of the priority requests of the Government.
However, t1ie UNDP may finance other experts for the rural development planning
group to support the work of those provided under the proposed loan (ref. para.
35).



- 20 -
TABLE 1
S/. (000)              US$ (000)
Subprojects:             Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Rural Development
Planning Group         9,500    14,875  24,375      380      595    975
Lower Guayas-
Naranjal Studies       14,125   54,625  68,750      565    2,185  2,750
Tungurahua
Province Studies       4,375     9,375  13,750      175      375    550
Esmeraldas
Basin Studies          4,500     8,625  13,125      180      345    525
Total                    32,500   87,500 120,000    1,300    3,500  4,800
Contingencies (Price)
/1                  7,500    12,500  20,000      300      500    800
Total Project Costs     40,000   100,000 140,000    1,600    4,000  5,600
/1   Price contingencies are calculated based on an estimated price increase
of 10% per year for foreign cost and 15% per year for local costs.
Physical contingencies are included in the estimates of the cost compo-
nents themselves.
55.       The proposed loan would be made to the Government of Ecuador, repay-
able over 15 years, including 4 years of grace. Proceeds of the loan would be
channeled as a grant by the Government to FONAPRE on behalf of the National
Planning Board, thus conforming to the prevailing practices concerning the Fund.
It was agreed that FONAPRE would provide the funds required for the project
studies to the agencies designated to carry them out on its standard terms. The
Pre-Investment Fund presently charges such agencies 6 percent for productive and
economic infrastructure projects (which most of these activities are likely to
be considered) and 4 percent for social projects or studies of a general nature.
As they do not earn revenues, the agencies who will execute the studies are
expected to repay FONAPRE through automatic retention of a portion of their future
budget allocations. Repayments of and interest on these sub-loans would accrue
to FONAPRE's resources and would be available for its further lending operations.



- 21 -
Procurement
56.       The selection and contracts of all consultants would be subject to
approval by the Bank. The Bank would disburse from the proposed loan 100
percent of foreign exchange costs for technical services and overseas training;
and 100 percent of foreign exchange costs (and 80 percent of the cost of
locally procured imported goods) for equipment. The Government would finance
offices, office equipmlent and the salaries of all Ecuadorian personnel. Re-
troactive financing not exceeding US$200,000 is proposed for consultant
services or equipment provided after January 1, 1976 with the approval of
the Bank.
57.       Vehicles and equipment would be procured through competitive bidding
advertised locally, because of the size and timing of individual purchases.
Grouping of orders wouLld not be practical since vehicles and equipment have
to be purchased in smELll numbers by different agencies and over a period of
more than 2 years. Ite presence of local representatives of foreign manu-
facturers, furthermore, would permit adequate service and spare parts.
Benefits and Risks
58.       The technical services to be provided under the proposed project
will help strengthen the capabilities of Ecuadorian agencies in rural develop-
ment and reduce the critical shortage of skilled manpower. The project will
assist the Government to increase the number of well-prepared priority projects
and to shift some of the emphasis of its investment programs from infrastruc-
ture to rural developm!ent. Moreover, without this proposed assistance, future
rural development project preparation would very likely result in more costly
and/or ineffective projects, consequently frustrating the Government's goals
of improving the quality of life of the rural poor and raising agricultural
production. Thus, there would be achieved better resource allocation, as well
as a basis for improved use and coordination of external financial assistance.
The combined impact of these benefits would be substantial. However, since
the investment costs of most of the projects which will be prepared and imple-
mented as a result of the subprojects financed by the loan are not yet deter-
minable, it is not possible to quantify their likely benefits in a meaningful
fashion.
59.       The execution of the project does not entail substantial risks but
does place considerable responsibility on the quality of the staff that JUNAPLA
assigns to the rural development planning unit and the specialists to be re-
cruited as their advisors (ref. para 34). Both would require close monitoring
by the Government and the Bank. In order to minimize the risks, the afore-
mentioned specialists would be appointed with the approval of the Bank. The
terms of reference of all studies financed under the Loan would be approved,
furthermore, by the Bank (ref. para 52).



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Article of Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the proposed
loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft
agreement conforms to the normal pattern of loans for this type of project.
61.       The following are additional conditions of effectiveness:
(i)  That the rural development specialist has been retained
by FONAPRE and his counterpart designated and has taken
his post (Section 5.01(a));
(ii)  That the Borrower has made the proceeds of the Loan
available to FONAPRE in accordance with Section 3.06(a)
of the Loan Agreement (Section 5.01(b)); and
(iii)  That the Project Coordinator has been designated and
has taken up his post (Section 5.01(c)).
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 18, 1976



Annex I
ECUADOR              - SCA     INDICATORS DATA SHEETPae                          1o       5
LAND AREA (THOU KNZ2 
-    ---ECAO                                                                       REFERENKE COW TRIES (19701
TOTAL       283.6                                         MOST RECENT
ARABLE          ..1960                               1970   EST1IRATE          ALGERIA         PERU           VENEZUELA"
GNP PER CAPITA IUS$3                        190.0       280.0       380.0                                 ---.0  510.0  1 -.O ----
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTIC:S
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLIONI                4.4         6.1         6.8                14.7         13.3        10.3
POPULATION DE~. iYY
PER SQUARE KM.                           16.0        21.0        24.0                 6.0        11.0         11.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LANO                 .        103.0...                                    400.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND           48.0/a       38.0  a     39.0O/a             49.0        42.0         40.0
CRUOE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND            14.0r.      11.0 /      10.0 ;              17.0         i1.08.
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/Ti-IOU)        ioo.o7;      77.0 Ia      79.0   a            86.0/a      65.0        49.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRS)          5i.07;b      57.0        60.0                51.0        58.0        64.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    .          3.3         3.2                 3.5         2.9          Z.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE Is)
TOTAL                                    3.0          3.4         3.4                 3.1.        2.9          3.5
URBAN                                     5.0         5.0         5.0                 7.0         5.01         4.5
URBAN POPUJLATION tS OF TOTAL)I            36.0/c      38.0        39.0                45.0         51.0        16.0
AGE STRUCTJRF (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          45.0/a c     48.0/a      47.0 /a             47. 0/b     45.0/.      47.1
15 TO 64 YeARS                          52.07a c     49.07;.     50.0                49.0/b      S2.0/a       50.5
65 YEARS AND nVER                         3.07a..     3.07;a      3.0 a4.07b                       3.07;       2.4
AGE OFPFNDcNCY RATIO                        0:9/a c     1.0/a       1. O/a              1.0/b        0.9/a       1.0
ECONOmiC DFPENOFNCY RATIO                   1.77        1. 67;b      1. 57;-            z.6/7b       1. 5        1.6/
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)               .            ..
USERS IT OF MARRIED WOMEN,I.                            ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE ( THOUSANOD,,         1400.0/a,c   1900.0      2200.0              2600.0/b c 4300.0/a      3200.A,b
LABOR CORCFIN AGRICULTURE     )        5 7IS. 0/a,c-  54.0        ..6 4./c                      4./a          2.
UNEMPLOYEOIT Ot  F LABOPR FORC)               .          .            .                 I .Oj/bc     5.07b       6i.0/c
INCOME nISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D RT'-
HIGHEST   5R OF POPULATION              52.6/d       43.0 /c        ..                            31.4/c
HIGHEST 205 OF POPULATION               69.277d      72. 07        ..                            62.6/c.
LOWEST   20R OF POPULATION               4.377d       1.8 /c       i..                              .8-c
LOWEST   401 OF POPULATION               9.a77        5.2 77c      F.                               . 37-7
DISTRIBIJTInN OF LAND OWNERSHI)l
S: OWNED BY TOP 1OR OF OWNEP!,                           .            .                             93.0
S OWNEn BY SMALLEST 101t OWNF RS             .                        ..                             0.1
HEALTH AND NUTRIT ION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 21300.0/c   2930.0           .              1860.0       1920.0      L100.0
POPULATION PER NJRSING PERSrIN                .      8 630.0.                        2 73 0.3    3 20J. 0      530.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED               520.0/c,e   430.0       470 .0              340.0        470.0       320.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES I8 OF REQUIREMENIIS)           81.0         89.0        88.0                71.0         98. 0      100.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER flAY)                46.0         49.0        47.0                45.0         62.0        62.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            24.0         22.0          .                  9.0/d       24.0        32.3
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4                  .         13.0           .                 1 2.0/b       .           5.0
EDUJCAT ION
ADJUSTED FNROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                          a3.0         95.0           .                75.0        115.0        82.0
SECONDARY SCHrOOL                        12.0        24.0          ..                1.0          41.0        3 3.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST ANO0 SECOND LEVEL)               12.0         12.0        12.0                15.0         1z.O        11.0
VOICATIONAL ENROLLMENT
IS OF SrCONnARY)                        29.0         29.0          .                 20.0         17.0/d      33.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE IS)                      ..        68.0        69.0                 25.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGEI                  2.1/c         ..                             2.8/b e
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS wiTHOUT
PIPED WATER                             88.0/c f       .                             77.0/b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Il OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    32.0/c          ..                           34.0/b
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (II                        9.0/c        .                             12.0/b
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU PCPI             41.0       279.0           .                 52.0       134.0        164.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)               2.0         4.0          5.0                10.0        11.0         55.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)               92.0       156.0        1 72. 0             139.0       3 92 .0     1215.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PFR CAP)                   2.0         2 .3         3 .8                0.01         3. 6        7. 8
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Anniex I
___                                                                  Page 2 of 5
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1968-70, and for Most Recent Estimate to 1971-73.
** Venexuela has been selected an en objective country because of its e"erimen    in economic dawlopseut based on petroleus exports.
ECUADOR            1960    /a  Excluding ncedic Indian jungle population;      lb  1961-63;  /c  1962;    /d  1965, incase recipient;    /a Covermsent hospital
establishments;    Lf  inside only.
1970    /a  Ezcluding nomedic Indian tribes;     lb  Ratio of populaticm under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    Ic   Income
recipient.
MOST RECENT ESTIMTE:    /a  Excluding nasadic Indian tribes;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force.
ALGERIA            1970    /a  1965, Algerian population only;    /b  1966;     /c  Excluding military persawoel in barracks and 274,663 nationals abroad
of whom 229,020 are econasically active; also excluding 1,200,000 mainly occupied in agriculture;     /d  1964-66;    Ie Total,
urban and rural.
PERU               1970    Ia  Excludes Indian jungle population;    /b  Urban areas only;     /   Economically active population;    /d  Including evning
achools.
VENEZUELA          1970    Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;     /b  E onoaically active p.pul.ti on;
Tc  April and Deceaber.                                                                                       R5 February 19, 1976
IEFflTfIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Iand Area (thou                                                ~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~Popuation  er nursj  peron - Population divided by number of practicing
Total-'fot,al surface area comprising land area and inland vawates                     maeadfmaegaut nurses, "trained" or 'certi-fied" nurses, and
U   a- Most recent estimate of land area used temporarily or permanently            auxiliar-y personnel with training or experience.
for-cultivation, patures, market and kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.             Poplaio    prhoilbd-Ppatndvmdynuerfhsialed
aalbeIn public and private general and specialized hospital and
oN pr cito     )"  - (DP per capita estimates at market prices, calcu-               rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing hones and establishments for
saeconversion methiod as World Bank Atlas (1972-74& basis),              custodial and preventive care.
Per capita supply of calories (% of.a rurments       r omputed from energy
=  tio.n and vital statistics                                                       equivalent of net food supplies available in ~c ountry per capita per day;
ultion  mid-yr. million) - As of July first; if not available, average             available supplies comprise dDmstic production, imports lens exports,
of two end-year estimates,                                                           and changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quanti-
ties used in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements
Popurlaiondenity - er squae Mo-i~d-year population per square kilo-                    were estimated by FAO based on pbysiological needs for normal activity
mee  1(7hctrs  of   Tta  ara                                                   and health considering environmental temperature, body weights, age and
Popultion density - per square los of arable land - Computed ase above for              sex distributions of population, and allaowing 10% fur waste at household
arale land only.                                                                    level.
Per capita supply oprotein (grams per day) - Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                                        capita net supply .1 food pr day, net supply of food is defined as
Or-ue b= raeper tahousand - Aimual live births per thousand of mid-                above; requirements for all countries established by USDA Economic
year population ; msualy five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                  Research Services provide for a minimum al-lowance of 60 grams of total
1975 for developing countries,                                                       protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and pulsHe protein, of whiich 10
Crddeeat    rat perthousand - Annual deatha per thousand of mid-year                 grams should be animal protein; these standardLs are lower than those of
populatin; usalyfive-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grasms of animal protein as an average
for developing countries.                                                             fum the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
ror   ate ~/thou) - Annual deaths of Infants under one year              Per capita porotein  uppl fro   animal ad pulse - Protein supply of food
of age pe     usn       e births.                                                     deie     rmaiasedpie             ngas par day.
Life    ectan   at birth Rs) -Average number of years of life remain-                 Dahrate /,thu) aags 1-14 - Annual deaths par thousand in age group 1-4
13 wi'l9htoiil      fv  year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                                  en,     -is age group; suggested as en indicator of mal-
1975 for developing countries.                                                        nutrition.
11ros rR:ctinrarte - Average number of live daughters a woman will
berF             e    poutv      periodi if she experiencees present age-           Education
speci-fic fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,               A us eenrolletrto                    col-Enrollment of all ages as per-
1970 and 1975 for developing countries.                                                                             popag   o  tion; cludes childrben aged 6-li1
Popuatio  groth rte () - otal-Compound annual growth rates of mid-            years but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for coon-
yer     opltin otlO0           190 70, and 1960 to most recant year.                   tries with universal eduication, enrolment mnay excee   0%soesm
Popul.ation grwhrate ()-urban - Computed like growth rate of total                      pupils are below or above the official school age.
popuatio; dfferent definitions of urban are-as may affect cumapara-             Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; second-
bility of data among countries.                                                       ary, education requires at least four yearn of approved primary instruc-
Urban pqpj      of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; dif-               tion; provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for
!    Nl   ontl or urban areas may affect comparability of data                   pupi-ls of 12 t  7yaso       g;crepnec           ore     r    eeal
amonig countries,                                                                     excluded.
stute~          4t    - Children (0-14, years), working-age (15-614 years),        Years of schoolin   prvded (fist and secn      levels) - Total years of
an  retirTe     year end over) as percentages of mid-year population,                 schooling;  tscnaylvl voatina              nstruction nay be partially
Ag  mend    rati  - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                 or completely excluded.
M ofs age     through 614.                                                       Voca tional enrollmernt (% ofosecondary) - Vocational institutions include
r-p    atio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over               tcacl       nutilo        te    rgaswihoeaeIdpnatyo
to eh    ao      prsin age gmup of 15-614 years.                                      as departments of secondary institutions.
Ffmyplanning - acetors (cumuilative, thoui) - Cumulative number of                    Autle        ra  te  %) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
acetor  of bio-t=otrrol devices under auspices of national family                  cnaeof tog?addult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
Family             o    arie    omn)-Percentages of married                    Housing
women    chdle         age (15" ye ar) who use birthm-control de-                  Personas    room (average) - Average nmober of persons par room in occupied
vices t~o all married women in sance age group.                                       covafiHiicI&eIlimgs in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
structures end unoccupied paris.
~~~~l~~~~~~~ant ~~~~~~~~~~Occupied dwellingswithoutapiped water ()-Occupied conventional dwell-
TotZ   =a  r force (thousand) - Economically active persons, including                  ig    nubnedrrlaeswtot~ieo                        usd     ie     ae
are    ocsGruneM06           but excuding housevives, students, etc.;1                faci-lities as percentage of all occupied cdwellings.
definitions in various countries are not coqmprable.                                Access to electricity (% of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
lao    orei                     - Agricultural labor force (in farming,                 electricity in livi.ng quarters as per-cent of total dwellings in urban
foetr,as percentage of total labor force,                                             and rural areas.
Unemployed (% olarfrc)-Unemployed are usually defi-ned as per-                        Rural dwlinigs connected to electricity' (%) - Computed as shove for rural
sons who are  beed~ln          to take a job, out of a job on a given                 dWelig    only.
day, remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum
period not exceeding one week; may' not be comparable between coon-Co                      t
tries due to different definitions of unaMployed and source of data,                            a        thou     ) - All types of receivers fbr radio broad-
e.g., employment office statistics, sample surveys, compulsory unam-                  casts to gamer Ppu    c par thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
ploynent insurance,                                                                   receivers in countries and in years when regiBtrationi of radio sets was
in effest; data for recent years may not be comparable since msat ooun-
Income distribution - Percentage of private incase (both in cash and                    tries abolished licensing.
kind) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                        ercr       rthou p) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars seating
140% of population.                                                                  L"i.iiiF     pirsons; axcludes ambulances, hearses end military
vehicles.
Distribution of land ownesrhip - Percentages of land oumed by wealthiest              Eleetricci  IAVW      gc      -Anulomu         tinfidsra,cmeca,
10% and poorest 10% of land owners.                                                                   tei I ~~~ ec   ricity in kilowatt hours per capita; generally
based on production data, without allowance for losses in grids but allow-
Health end Nutrition                                                                    ing for imports and e     tort of electricity.
P20   to      r      Iian - Population   divided by number of practicing              !!Nit~gy            e      - Per capita annual oorsumption in kilograsm
p  siciansquaI     a5 rc   a medical school at university level.                      estimatedfrm.     escFocutnplsetiorsf                     nw  rnt



SELECTED ECONOMIC DEV W?Xr DATA
(A-out i. clllioco of dollre)
Actol                                       Prolected                                     Grmwth  arte.                                As Percent of 0
Aver...
1970-72    1972    1973    1974?     1975    1976     1978     1980    1982     1985       1965-70  1970-74   1974-80   1980-83        1972    1974P     1976     118      1903    1963
Constant 1970-72 PrIei. and Exchoe Rate
GCP                             1,623    1,749    2,038    2,160   2,290    2,427   2,815    3,265    3,754   4,731          5.5       8.9      7.1       7.7         100.4    86.6     87.7     86.0     85.7     84.3
Gains free Teom  of TrAde         -         -7       58     334      217     341      459      545      910     878           -         -        -         -          -0.4     13.4     12.3     14.0     14.3     15.7
C-ms Do.tic Ioc                 1,623    1,742    2,096    2,494   2.507    Z,768   3,274    3,810    4,664   5,609          4.6      12.1      7.3       8.0         100.0   100.0    100.0     100.0   100.0    100.0
b_orte (incloding FWS)            426      422     430      760      770     842    1,076    1.412    1.648   1,984         11.0      19.3     10.9       7.1         24.2     30.5     30.4     32.9     37.1     35.4
Teport Capnaity (Enportt)         269      348      512     768      673     867    1,077    1,253    1,822   1,963         18.2      12.2      8.5       9.4         20.0     30.8     31.3     32.9     32.9     35.0
Rc-or-e Cap                       157       74     -82       .        97     -25       -1      159     -174      21           -        -         -         ,           4.2     -0.3     -0.9       0       4.2     0,4
'en-.ptimo EnpendLttre          1.400    1,427    1,541    1,872   1,934    2.025   2,394    2.780    3,197   4,013          4.4      8.9       6.8       7.6         81.9     75.1     73.2     73.1     73.0     71.5
loveserent EmneodLcre             380      389     473      614      670     718      879    1,189    1,293   1,617         18.2     18.0      11.6       6.3         22.3     24.6     25.9     26.8     31.2    28.8
De-tic S-vi1g.                    223      51S      555     622      573     743      880    1,030    1,467   1,596          9.0     30.0       8.8       9.2         18.1     24.9     26.8     26.9     27.0     28.5
NIclonel S-vin8g                  188      246      358     602      543      724     845      993    1,420   1,528         11.7      34S       8.7       9.0         14.1     24.1     26.2     25.8     26.1     27.2
Price Indices (1970-72-100)
D-tic Price lodes                 100      109      122     150      177     203      246      293      357     45
Imort Pri  Inde.                 100      105     120      150      155     162      179      199     222      276
Rnport Price Indc-                100      103      135     266      229     267      312      352      444     499
Tares of Trade loden              100       98      112     177      148     165      174      117      200     181
11-12-75



BAIANCE OY PAY)1Nrs
rert 1    Import Det.l
(million US$)
Aver...lrc                  Actuel                                                          Proleted
1970-72        1972          1973        1974P       1975       1976        1977       1978        1979       1980        1981       1982
I.   IMPORTS C.I.F.
A. Constant (1970-72) Price,
Primary and inter-
mediate good.               143.2         133.6       142.4         239.5        252         260        320        355         393        459         501        538
Capital good.                 107.7         120.7       118.0        287.8         286         338        399        448         531        614         665        710
Conaumer goods                 40.8         42.6         57.3          76.7         83         82          82         88          98        108         119        131
Fuel. and lubricants           18.5           9.3         8.0           6.3          7          9           7          6           6          6           6          6
Total goods                   310.2         306.2       325.7         610.3        628         689        808        897       1,028       1,187      1,291      1,385
Non-factor .ervi...           115.8         115.3       103.8        149.6         142         153        170        179         205        225         245        263
Total goods and 808           426.0        421.5        429.5         759.9        770        842         978       1,076      1,233      1,412       1,536       1,648
B. Ptcin Indi... (1970-72-100)
Prilary and inter-
-ediate goods               100           101         122           185          177        181         186         189        194        204         215        227
Capital goodo                 100           104         125          135           145        153         163         173        184         196        207        218
Consumer goods                100           111         112          144           156        168         178        191         204        218         232        247
Fuel, and lubricant.          100          114          138          267           285        510         335        360         385        411         439        469
Total good.                   100           104         122          167           161         167        175         182        181         202        213         225
Non-factor servic.s           100           108         114           122          130         139        149         159        170         182        193         205
Total goods and NFS           100           105         120           150          155         162        170         179        187         199        210         222
C. Current Priceo
Proiary and inter-
nediat. goods               143.2         135.0       173.8         443.1        446        471         595         671        762         936      1,077       1,221
Capital good.                 107.7         125.7       147.8         388.6        415         517        650         773        977       1,203      1,376       1,548
Consumer goodo                408            47.2        64.4         110.4        130         138        146         168        200         235        276         323
F.-l,  nd lubric-nta           18.5          10,6        11.2          16.3         19         28          23         22          23          25         26          28
Total goods                   310.2         318.5       397.2         958.4      1,010       1,154      1,414       1,636      1,962       2,399      2,755       3.120
Non-factor services           115.8         124.5       118.2         182.5        185         213        253         285        349         409        473         539
Total goods end NFS           426.0         443.0       515.4       1,140.9      1,195       1,367      1,667       1,921      2.311       2,808      3,228       3.659
Part II: Exoort Detail
(million US$)
Average                    Actunl                                                           Proiected
1970-72         1972        1973        1974P        1975        1976       1977        1978       1979        1980       1981        1982
11. EXPORTS
A. Constant (1970-72) Price.
Bananas                       100.8         126.0       102.2          98.7        116         116        116         119        122         125         130        134
Coffee                         44.4          51.1        62.9          49.2         48          47         49          51         52          52         53          54
Co...                          23.4          24.8        17.4          36.6         29          30         31          32         33          34          34         36
Sugar                          11.5          13.6         9.8          11.7         12          13         20          27         37          50         55          60
Shrimp and fioh                 9.6           7.8         7.7           9.6          9          10         14          19         22          24          25         26
Petroleun                      20.5          59.5       171.0         127.0        121         169        184         203        231         228         275        354
Other.                         28.2          32.2        53.7          713          99         109         120        132        145         160         176        206
Total good.                   238.4         315.0       424.7         404.1        434         494        534         583        642         673         748        870
Non-factor   e-rvoc..          30,8          39.7        29.2          29.6         29          32         34          35         36          37          39         42
Totl good. and NFS           269.2         354.7       453.9         433.7        463         526         568        618         678        708         787        912
B.  Price Indlce.  (1970-72-100)
Banana.                       100           104         107           115           128        123         132        139        147         157         172        188
Coffee                        100            92         104           137          141         196         233        266         272        276         297        320
Co.o.                         100            95         149           281          214         229        244         240        238         234         251        269
Sugar                         100            97         128           363          348         319        246         247        267         286         306        327
Shrimp and fish               100           196         184           159           158        166         174        183        192         202         214        227
Petroleua                     100           100         165           530          449         488        527         566        608         651         697        746
Other.                        100           104         122           132           137        148        161         175         187        200        214         256
Total goods                    100          103          135          274           233        273         296        318         345        359         399        453
Non-factor aervica,           100           105         134           147           169        177         185        194        204         214         226        239
Total goods and NFS           100           103          135          266           229        267         289        312         338        352         390        444
C. Current Price.
Bananan                       100.8         131.0       109.4         113.5        148         143         153        165        179         196         224        252
Coffee                         44.4          47.0        65.4          67.4         68          92         114        136        141         144        157         173
Cocoa                          23.4          23.6         26.0        102.9          62         69          76         77         79          80          85         97
Sogar                           11.5         13.2         12.5         42.5         42          41          49         67         99         143         168        196
Shri=p and fi1h                 9.6          15.4         14.2         15.3          15         17          25         54         43          48          54         59
Patrole,oa                     20.5          59.5       282.1         673.1        543         825         970      1.149      1.404       1,484       1,917      2,641
Other,                          28.0         33.5         65.5         94.1         136        161         193        231         271        320         377        527
Total goods                   238.4         323.2        575.1      1,108.8       1,014      1,348       1,580      1,859       2,216      2,415       2,982      3.945
Non-factor -ervice.             30.8         41.7        39.1          43.5         49          56          63         68          73         79          88        100
Total goods and NFS           269.2         364.9       614.2       1,152.3       1,063      1,404       1,643      1,927      2,289       2,494      3,070       4.045



PART III: SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(million US$)
Average               Actual                                                    Projected
1970-72      1972      1973P    1974P        1975e       197t      1977      1978       1979       1980      1981      1982
1.  Imports (incl. NFS)                    426       443        515     1,046        1,195      1,367     1,667     1,921      2,311     2,808      3,228     3,659
2. Exports (incl. NFS)                     269        365       614      1,081       1,063      1,404     1,643     1,927      2,289      2,494     3,070     4,045
3.  Resource Balance                      -157        -78        99         35        -132         37       -24          6       -22       -314      -15       3O 
4.  Factor services                        -51        -87       -54        -68         -76       -122      -134       -149      -174       -185      -229       -307
5.  Transfers, net                          16         15        38         18          20         25        30        35         40        45         50        50
6.  Balance on Current Account            -192       -150        83        -15        -188        -60      -128       -108      -156      -454       -337        129
7.  Private M & LT Capital                 161       211         54         75          60       121        164       160        170       252        262       235
8.  Public M & LT Capital                   41         77        26         -9          74         83        65         68       107        137       129       108
(Disbursements)                      (66)     (105)       (59)      (59)        (135)     (155)      (133)     (133)      (163)     (197)      (184)     (186)
(Amortization)                       (25)      (28)       (33)      (68)         (61)      (72)       (68)      (65)       (56)      (60)       (55)      (78)
9.  Allocation of SDR's                      4         4        -          -           -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -
10.  Capital Transactions, n.i.e.           -34        -68       -65         62         -76         40       -20        -20        30         30        30         30
(incl. errors and
omissions)
11.  Change in Reserves                      20        -74       -98       -113         130       -184       -81       -100      -151         35       -84      -502
(- increase)
12.  Reserves (net)
end of period                         69       128        226       339          209       393        474       574        725       690        774     1,276
13. External Public Debt,
Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)
Total                       245       301       327        293          367       450       515        583       690        827       956      1,064
IBRD                        33         34        36         37          42         51        71        101       138        172       206        237
IDA                          8         12        18         21          27         32        36         37        38         38        38         38
14.  Public Debt Service Ratio             11.4       10.0       7.2        7.4         8.0        7.3       6.3        5.6       3.6        3.8       4.0        3.8
15. IBRD Debt Service as percent
of Public Debt Service                14         12        12          7          11         10        12         13        18         20        18         17
16. IDA Debt Service as percent
of Public Debt Service                0         0          0         0            0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0
11-12-75
U'0



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at January 31, 1976)
Loan or                                                      US$ million
Credit    Fiscal                                     Amount      (less cancellations)
Number     Year     Borrower           Purpose        Rank        IDA    Undisbursed
7 loans and 2 credits fully disbursed                 57.7        9.1        -
124      1968      Ecuador            Education        -         5.1       2.0
555      1968      Ecuador            Fisheries       4.6         -        1.2
222      1970      Ecuador            Agriculture       -       10.0       4.2
721      1970      Ecuador            DFC             8.0         -        0.2
286      1972      Ecuador            Power             -        6.8       1.7
930      1973      Ecuador            DFC             20.0        -        7.2
425      1973       Ecuador           Irrigation        -        5.5       1.8
1030      1974      Empresa Municipal
de Agua Potable
de Guayaquil      Water Supply   23.2        -        22.9
1157      1975      Ecuador            Education        4.0        -        4.0
Total                                      117.5       36.5      45.2
of which has been repaid                 39.0        0.2
Total now outstanding                        78.5       36.3
Amount sold                       1.8
of which has been repaid        1.8          -          -
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /a                                 78.5       36.3
Total undisbursed                            35.5        9.7      45.2
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1976)
Type of   Amount in US$  million
Year                                          Business   Loan  Equity   Total
1966 & 1972  La Internacional S.A.            Textiles  3.72   0.24     3.96
1969         Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A.
1973 & 1975  Compania Fiaanciera (COFIEC)     DFC         -    0.34     0.34
Total gross commitments                    3.72   0.58     4.30
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     2.47   0.24     2.71
Total commitments now held by IFC          1.25   0.34     1.59
Total undisbursed                           -      -        -
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTIi)N 1/
Credit No. 124-EC - Education Project; US$5.1 million Credit of June 27, 1968;
Effe:tive Date: August 30, 1968; Closing Date: December 31,
1976.
The project is about three years behind schedule because of initial
difficulties in appointing the project director and recruiting experts, and
later because of shortages of counterpart funds. As a result of the reorgani-
zation in 1974, project administration has improved and the project is now
progressing satisfactoriLy. Twenty-three of 28 project schools are now in
operation.  The Government has authorized funds to finance the local cost com-
ponent of the project. The Association has extended the Closing of this Credit
until December 31, 1976 Ln order to conclude the construction of the remaining
five project schools.
Loan No. 555-EC - Fisheries Project; US$5.3 million Loan of September 5, 1968;
Effect:Lve Date: September 4, 1969; Closing Date: June 30,
1976.
This project had a slow start owing mainly to institutional problems
and less than anticipated demand for the fishing vessels included in the project.
The project is now proceeding satisfactorily towards its scheduled termination.
Consultants are now concluding the final stages of the preparation of a fishery
training school, which should be opened shortly.
1/   These notes are desiLgned to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Credit No. 222-EC - Third Livestock Development Project; US$10.0 million Credit
of December 10, 1970; Effective Date: September 30, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. There was a slowdown in
lending from May 1973, when negotiations regarding changes in interest rates
for subloans were begun, until the issue was settled in May 1974. However, the
credit is now fully committed and is expected to be fully disbursed by the
Closing Date. The objectives of the project are being met, and demand for
investments for subloans for beef and dairy development is good.
Loan No. 721-EC - Development Finance Companies Project; US$8.0 million Loan of
February 5, 1971; Effective Date: October 15, 1971;
Closing Date: MIarch 31, 1976.
Disbursements are running slightly behind the original schedule, but
the loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the new Closing Date of March 31,
1976.
Credit No. 286-EC - Third Power Project; US$6.8 million Credit of February 15,
1972; Effective Date: December 15, 1972; Closing Date:
May 15, 1976.
The generation components of the project were completed with excep-
tion of the Cumbaya by-pass which had to be redesigned to overcome geological
difficulties found while building the tunnel for the Nayon power plant. The
transmission and distribution componenets of the Project remain to be com-
pleted. The beneficiary, Empresa Electrica de Quito, effected a tariff in-
crease in December 1975; approved new organizational statutes; contracted for
an asset revaluation study; and obtained a settlement of the outstanding debts
of the Municipality of Quito. On the basis of these actions, the Association
agreed to extend the Closing Date to May 15, 1976.
Credit 425-EC - Milagro Irrigation Project; US$5.5 million Credit of August 17,
1973; Effective Date: January 17, 1974; Closing Date: August
31, 1979.
Civil works are proceeding on schedule although there has been some
delay in awarding bids for some project equipment. The arrival of a construc-
tion consultant has been scheduled to fit the expected arrival of the equipment.
Consultants have been retained to carry out the feasibility studies for a
possible second project.
Loan 930-EC - Second Development Finance Companies Project; US$20.0 million
Loan of August 17, 1973; Effective Dates: COFIEC February 27,
1974; CFN March 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project is proceeding according to schedule, and the loan is
now almost completely committed.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23 million
Loan of July 23, 1974; Effective Date: January 29, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Disbursements have been considerably slow, owing to delays in effec-
tiveness and changes in management and engineering consultants. However"
procurement is now under way. Lower than anticipated revenues and cost increases
are likely to create financial problems in the medium-term, and the Bank has
started to discuss alternative solutions with the Borrower and the Government.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date: September
30, 1978.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Construction of
the first phase of the Guayaquil vocational training center has commenced and
the equipment provided for this phase by the Federal Republic of Germany has
been delivered. Design work for the remainder of the civil work is about half
completed. Furniture and equipment lists are under preparation.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ECUADOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PREPARATION
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The Government of Ecuador
Amount:                  US$4.0 million
Terms:                   Repayable over 15 years, including a 4 year period
of grace at 8-1/2 percent.
Re-lending Terms:        From Preinvestment Fund (FONAPRE) to Government
Agencies: 5-10 years including 1-3 years of grace
at 4-6 percent per annum.
Project Description:     The project provides technical assistance and
associated equipment over a three-year period for
the following subprojects: (a) establishment and
training of a national rural development planning
group, within JUNAPLA; (b) preparation of rural
development projects in the province of Tungurahua;
(c) preparation of rural and agricultural development
projects in the lower Guayas Basin and a framework
plan for water control and agricultural development
for this region; and (d) pre-investment studies of
rural development possibilities in the Esmeraldas
River basin zone.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost:                                    US$ Thousand
Cost Components
Technical,1
Services-       Equipment    Training    Total
Rural Development Planning Group      907              32          36        975
Lower Guayas-Naranjal
Zone Studies                      2567             100          83       2750
Tungurahua Province Studies           495              55          -         550
Esmeraldas Basin Studies              485              40          -         525
Subtotal                             4454             227         119       4800
Contingencies (Price) /2              756              24          20        800
Grand Total                          5210             251         139        5600
/1   "Technical Services" include costs of foreign and local experts,
office services and transportation. Foreign consulting services
have been estimated at an average of US$45,600 per man-year for
long-term consultants and an average of US$7,500 per man-month
of short-term consultants, based on recent Bank experience in
comparable projects in Latin America.
/2   Physical contingencies are included in the estimates of the cost
components themselves.
Financing Plan:                               US$ million
IBRD                     4.0
Govt. of Ecuador          1.6
5.6
Estimated Disbursements:                 1976      1977      1978       1979
Annual           700     1,100     1,400       800
Cumulative       700     1,800     3,200     4,000



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement
Arrangements:               Vehicles and equipment would be obtained on the
basis of competitive procurement advertised
locally and limited to firms that have service
facilities in Ecuador.
Consultants:                  All contracts for consulting services would be
subject to prior approval of the Bank. The
advisors for the Planning Group would be re-
cruited on an individual basis.
Experts for the subprojects would be provided
as follows:
Estimated Man-Years
over 3-year Period
Ecuadorian Foreign Total
JUNAPLA
Planning
Group        18         11     29
Tungurahua
Province      6         2.5     8.5
Guayas Basin    25       13      38
Esmeraldas
Basin         8         3      11
Total          57        29.5    86.5
In addition, services by a foreign topographic
mapping team would be provided.
Since one emphasis of the project is on
improving the planning capacity of the
Government of Ecuador, a major function
of the consultants would be to train their
Ecuadorian counterparts. For this reason,
the draft Loan Agreement (ref. Section 3.05)
calls specific attention to the consultants'
obligations in this regard.
Rate of Return:                Not applicable.



I                I1
82-          81              81OD~Id          79. '7           8
Voldl.e
,  X  '---   ~~~C O L O M B I A
ESMERALDAS                             TO \   MD7LLIN
ECUADOR t c LI
TULCAN
RURAL DEVELOPMENT                  -                               Aogel
Mussneo  '-S .t7,                    E    ,aGobr,e)
Paved Roods                                                     Cho    t    5CC
Gravel Roads                       Rgs                Cor Aococ   --ARRA
Earth Roads                                R   O           tovoo
Railroads                                                     - o           T.oL.goAg-~
7; Daule - Peripa Zone                     E R  -  D t         Coyoiebe
The Sierra (Based on 600m. contour) .
Rivers                                            Q
-  - International Boundaries  /
8ahXnf   (  ~~~~~~ (.Q  /   \ ~~~~~~~Mrel; 1-   BoezW  F~~~~ce relancso
.--t Rcfe   '<;   . .      .    <      ACUNGA      \       APO
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ood         ,,rA    vie   Croro 
o 20  40  60  to  o.                                                   ENA
2r       Sah-  g  | Elenrv   :  ,   r      7   /  ;4 SaO    C      r Vet.5PU5O<   2W
I   I                          -  i I  /S ?'  '  X     IASo   SS
KIOBRS                 |So                _<'Nrouro l ---V~~~bo,nrroM choJ* 
WCOC BgCk ,Cd ,saffiCoO7 / -A                    OGUn
____________ I_G__u_/ f                  }~~cr  COoro r C EN rongoeo /-         O
-3-_   _ _ _ _ _          |    ~       o  f       /  &+)i\ plOzeo .+p 
Z~~ ~ ~ ~ j                    .-'ep f''O.
SOUTH 2I                                   , _2b -
82   -/                                 /oI/unncacaomlmonPERU
I.,~~~~~~~~~~~-
.  SOUTH                                      C 9   ~   <a; i  '  .y  %
3                                                        o
:  g   e 0                                      /~  7 5 - I--o   'G                    3  W
0  20  40  60 80  810           80\              79R-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ KLO ETES_S                      ._ _-h
______________                      I                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q



