CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1230 EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 24, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to finance part
of the cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment;
WHEREAS any financing so provided by the Bank would be re-
funded, if the Bank so requests, out of the proceeds of any loan
or loans which may later be made by the Bank to the Borrower for
the financing of rural development projects identified under such
Project;
WHEREAS the Bank is willing, on the basis of the foregoing,
to make a loan to the 3orrower on the terms and conditions here-
inafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
0


﻿- 2 -                                   (
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General. Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
cnntext otherwise requires, the se,era' t,rms defined in the Gene-
ra-, Conditions have the resDective meanings therein 3et forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "JUNAPLA" means Juata Nacional de Planificaci6n y Coor-
dinaci6n Econ6mica of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(b) "Planning Unit" means the Planning Unit for Rural Devel-
opment established or to be established within JUNAPLA and referred
to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(c) "FONAPRE" means Fondo Nacional de Preinversi6n of the
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 1385
of the Borrower, dated December 14, 1973, published in Registro
Oficial No. 457 (hereinafter called the "Decree"), or any succes-
sor thereto;


﻿-3-
(d) "Banco Central" means the central bank of the Borrower or
any successor thereto; and
(e) "Lower Guayas Basin" means the southern part of the Guayas
river basin, south of the cities of Vinces and Catarma, in par-
ticular the plains which are frequently flooding, together with
the lower basins of the Chimbo and Bulu-Bulu rivers up to the course
of the Naranjal river.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dol-
lars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall cause FONAPRE to make with
Banco Central, arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, providing
for the withdrawal by FONAPRE of the proceeds of the Loan from the
Loan Account in accordance with Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
for the transfer of such proceeds to JUNAPLA, and the various other
departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project all as required for purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
required goods for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, may be procured in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.08. Interent and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through JUNAPLA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial and adminis-
trative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall, promptly as needed for purposes of
the Project, designate after consultation with the Bank, the de-
partments and agencies of the Borrower which shall be responsible
for the carrying out of Parts B, C and D of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause JUNAPLA and the various other
departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carry-
ing out of Parts B, C and D of the Project to cooperate effectively
with each other in the carrying out thereof.
Section 3.02. For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause JUNAPLA to employ, for a period
of not less than three years, a team of experts consisting of: (a)
an internationally experienced rural development adviser whose
main function shall be to assist JUNAPLA on matters related to
the Borrower's rural development policies and (b) other interna-
tionally recruited experts as shall be needed to assist JUNAPLA
in the identification of investment opportunities and detailed
project preparation in the rural development sector, all such
experts to possess such qualifications and experience, and to


﻿be employed on such terms and conditions, as shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause JUNAPLA to estab-
lish and operate the Planning Unit, which shall be in charge of
national rural development program and to which the experts pro-
vided for in Section 3.02 of this Agreement shall be assigned,
the functions of such Unit to include:
(i) formulation of a national policy on rural
development;
(ii) development of criteria for rural development
project planning and foreign assistance and
coordination of the Borrower's efforts in re-
questing such foreign assistance from United
Nations Development Programme and other inter-
national entities providing assistance for
rural development;
(iii) identification and formulation of high priority
rural development projects, particularly those
projects whose preparation will be financed under
Parts B, C and D of the Project;
(iv) Coordination of action and of liaison with the
various departments and agencies of the Borrower
involved in such program and in the carrying out
of the Project;


﻿-8-
(v) control of resources allocations in the rural
development sector;
(vi) monitoring and reviewing of the activities of
the experts involved in the rural development
sector and in the carrying out of the Project,
ensuring adequacy of logistical and administra-
tive support thereto; and
(vii) such other functions as shall be necessary or
advisable to achieve the foregoing.
(b) The Borrower shall cause JUNAPLA to employ, in the
Planning Unit a Project Coordinator who shall be in charge of
the Planning Unit and shall be responsible for the day-to-day
implementation of the Project.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts B, C and D, the Borrower shall employ, under terms of refer-
ence satisfactory to the Bank, the consultants referred to in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall, upon the retaining of the
conzultants referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, desig-
nate the Ecuadorian counterparts to such consultants referred to
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,


﻿*                           -9-
all to be trained on the job by such consultants or overseas, as
required in accordance with the provisions of such Schedule 5.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to FONAPRE without imposing any charges thereon,
pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 of Article 10 of the
Decree or to other arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cause FONAPRE to make the proceeds of
the Loan provided to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.06
(a) of this Agreement available to the various departments and
agencies of the Borrower responsible for the execution of any part
of the Project pursuant to loan contracts to be entered into between
FONAPRE and such departments and agencies on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in FONAPRE's Manual Reglamentario de las Operaciones,
dated April 1975 as it may be amended from time to time.
(c) The Borrower shall cause FONAPRE to carry out its obliga-
tions in respect of the Project with due diligence and efficiency.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause JUNAPLA, FONAPRE and the
various other departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project to maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall cause JUNAPLA, FONAPRE and the various other depart-
ments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project to furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.ol. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans
to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal
circumstances, specific security from the member concerned but to
ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over its
loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably
secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets
of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrow-r
shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien
on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-12-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operat-
ing for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdi-
vision, including gold and other foreign exchange Lssets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of Banco Central,
JUNAPLA, FONAPRE and of the various other departments and agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central,
JUNAPLA and FONAPRE and the various other departments and agencies
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, to
establish and maintain separate accounts exclusively for the purposes
of the Project and shall cause Banco Central, JUNAPLA and FONAPRE
to record in such Project accounts all receipts and payments for or
in connection with the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause FONAPRE, in respect of the Proj-
ect, to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance


﻿-13-
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four ronths after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of their financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning the accounts and financial statements of FONAPPE, and the
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably re-
quest.


﻿ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the rural development adviser referred to in Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement has been retained by JUNAPLA, and his
Ecuadorian counterpart has been designated and has taken his post;
(b) that the Borrower has made the proceeds of the Loan avail-
able to FONAPRE in accordance with Section 3.06 (a) of this Agree-
ment;
(c) that the Project Coordinator referred to in Section 3.03
(b) of this Agreement has been designated and has taken up his
post; and
(d) that all necessary acts, consents, and approvals to be
performed or given by the Borrower, by its political subdivisions
or agencies (including Banco Central) or by any agency of any such
political subdivision, or otherwise to be performed or given in
order to authorize the carr ing out of the Project and to enable
the Borrower to perform all of its obligations in this Agreement
contained, together with all necessary powers and rights in con-
nection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General


﻿-15-
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or certificate to be
furnished to the Bank, namely that all acts, consents and approvals
referred to in Section 5.01 (d) of this Agreement, together with
all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been
duly and validly performed or given and that no other such acts,
consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the carrying
out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all of its
obligations in this Agreement contained.
Section 5.03. The date September 23, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-16-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministro de Finanzas
Quito
Ecuador
Cable address:
MINFINANZAS
Quito, Ecuador
And for purposes of any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under Article X of the General Conditions, also:
Procurador General de la Naci6n
Avenida Colombia 248 Oficina 904
Quito, Ecuador
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-17-
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-18-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Cesar Robalino
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ E. Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
9l


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of amounts
of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants'                                 100% of foreign
services and                                 expenditures
training
Part A of the
Project               575,000
Part B of the
Project             2,120,000
Part C of the
Project               330,000
Part D of the
Project               325,000
Total          3,350,000
(2) Equipment                                    100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of ex. iditures
for local   pro-
cured imported
goods


﻿- 20-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Part A of the
Project                20,000
Part B of the
Project                65,000
Part C of the
Project                45,000
Part D of the
Project                20,000
Total       150,000
(3) Unallocated                 500,000
TOTAL      4,000,000
I1


﻿-21-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $200,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for such expendi-
tures before that date but after January 1, 1976;
(b) payments for expenditures under Part B, C or D of the
Project until the Ecuadorian counterpart who shall head the team
of experts in charge of such Part (and of any sub-part thereof)
has been appointed and has taken up his post;
(c) payments for expenditures under any contract for con-
sultants' services for Part B, C or D of the Project until such
contract, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, has
been entered into; and
(d) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if


﻿-22-
the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance all ex-
penditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet such
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, ,io expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to provide a three-year program
of technical assistance to the Borrower in its rural development
efforts. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Operation of the Planning Unit.
Part B:   A phased program of studies for, and preparation of,
agricultural and rural development projects to benefit
the population of the Lower Guayas Basin in the coastal
region comprising the following sub-parts (substantially
as detailed in Exhibit A to this Schedule):
1.   Identification and preparation of not more than
two projects covering an area of about 100,000
1ectares each; and
2.   Carrying out of studies of the Lower Guayas Basin
with a view to contributing to a long-range overall
plan for water control (flood control, drainage and
irrigation).
Part C:   Preparation of rural development projects to benefit
the population of the mountainous highlands of the
Andes in the province of Tungurahua.


﻿- 24 -
Part C comprises the following sub-parts:
1.   PreTaration of the Huachi-Pelileo rural development
project covering an area of about 11,000 ha between
2,500 m and 2,900 m altitude, including updating
of previous engineering studies for the same project
and analysis of existing and required support and
social services, such as credit, marketing, storage,
agricultural extension and research, primary schools,
health services and potable water.
2.   Preparation of the Quero rural development project
covering an area of about 18,000 ha between 2,900 m
and 3,600 m altitude in Canton Quero, including the
updating of previous studies for the same project,
with a view to providing better inputs (such as
fertilizers, pesticides and improved seeds) to
smaller farmers, the carrying out of a health program
(potable water, health services and latrines) and
construction of roads and community centers.
3.   Carrying out of a preinvestment study of the
possibility of developing a small industrial estate
in the provincial capital of Ambato, including the
updating of previous studies therefor.
Part D:   Part D comprises the carrying out of such high-priority
studies as shall be needed to prepare integrated rural
development projects in the Esmeraldas river basin,


﻿- 25 -
taking into consideration the findings of previous studies
that, for such area, have been conducted by the Organiza-
tion of American States for the benefit of the Borrower.
*              *              *              *
It is estimated that the Project will be completed by
June 30, 1980.


﻿- 26 -
EXHIBIT A
to Part B of Schedule 2
to the Loan Agreement
The studies of the Lower Guayas Basin will be carried out in
the following phases:
(a) A team of internationally recruited, high-level experts
will, together with Ecuadorian counterparts assigned
therefor, and during a period of 2-3 months:
(i) review available information;
(ii) identify one or two projects of about
100,000 hectares each; and
(iii) draft terms of reference for the studies
consistent with the resources available from
the Borrower and the Bank for Part B of the
Project.
(b) Topographic maps (scale 1:10,000, contour intervals
1 meter) will be orepared for every project identified
under (a), (ii) and hydrological stations will be
established as required for such projects.


﻿-27-
(c) The preinvestment studies will be carried out in
accordance with the terms of reference referred to
under (a) (iii) in a manner satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 28-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 1980                               110,000
March 15, 1981                                   120,000
September 15, 1981                               120,000
March 15, 1982                                   130,000
September 15, 1982                               135,000
March 15, 1983                                   140,000
September 15, 1983                                145,000
March 15, 1984                                   150,000
September 15, 1984                               160,000
March 15, 1985                                   165,000
September 15, 1985                                170,000
March 15, 1986                                   180,000
September 15, 1986                               185,000
March 15, 1987                                    195,000
September 15, 1987                                205,000
March 15, 1988                                    210,000
September 15, 1988                                220,000
March 15, 1989                                    230,000
September 15, 1989                                240,000
March 15, 1990                                    250,000
September 15, 1990                                260,000
March 15, 1991                                    280,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-29-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/2%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2-3/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          5-3/4%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                              7%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 30                                    0
SCHEDULE 4
Consultants for Parts B, C and D
A.   Consultants required to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part B of the Project: about 160 man-months of services, over
a three-year period, of specialists, including specialists
in the fields of flood control, drainage, irrigation, agri-
culture, soil and land classification, agricultural economics
and mapping.
B.   Consultants required to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part C of the Project: about 30 man-months of services of
specialists, including specialists in agriculture, agricultural
economics, irrigation, groundwater, agricultural extension,
geology and soil and land classification for Part C(l) of the
Project.
C.   Consultants required to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part D of the Project: about 44 man-months of services of
specialists, including specialists in agricultural economics,
rural development, agronomy, forestry and livestock.


﻿-31-
SCHEDULE 5
Ecuadorian Specialists
and Training of Project Staff
A.   Part A of the Project:
(1) Ecuadorian counterparts to second the experts referred
to in Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement.
(2) About 88 man-months of training of the staff of JUNAPLA
and of other agencies and departments of the Borrower in
project preparation and evaluation techqiques, and other
"ctiviti.:s as needed, in Ecuador and abroad.
.    Part 3 of the Project:
(1) About 300 man-months of services of Ecuadorian
professionals, with experience in hydrological and
soils investigations, topographical surveys, sociological
and socio-economic surveys, provided by agencies and
departments of the Borrower.
(2) About 40 man-months of specialized training of Ecuadorian
counterparts in Ecuador and abroad.
C.   Part C of the Project:
About 75 man-months of services of Ecuadorian professionals,
with experience in agriculture, economics, civil engineering,


﻿- 32 -
sociology and education, provided by agencies and departments
of the Borrower.
D.   Part D of the Project:
About 60 man-months of services t' Ecuadorian professionals
provided by agencies and departments of the Borrower.


