Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19025
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3179-ZW)
March 11, 1999
Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGRITEX    =       Agricultural, Technical and Extension Services
BADEA              Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CAs                Communal Areas
CAFs         =     Communal Area Farmers
CFD                Commercial Farmers Division
CIDA         =     Canadian International Development Agency
CP                 Cooperative Programme
DANIDA       =     Danish Intemational Development Agency
DFO                District Forest Officers
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
FA                 Forestry Assistants
FC           =     Forestry Commission
FCZ          =     Forestry Company of Zimbabwe
FRMDP        =     Forestry Resources Management and Development Project
GOZ          =     Government of Zimbabwe
GTZ                Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
ICR          =     Implementation Completion Report
IDA          =     International Development Association
MMT          =     Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism
NGOs,              Non-Govemmental Organizations
PCC                Project Coordinating Committee
PCU                Project Coordination Unit
RAs                Resettlement Areas
RAP                Rural Afforestation Project
RMC                Resource Management Conrmittee
SFD                State Forestry Division
TA                 Technical Assistance
VIDCOS             Village Development Committees
WB                 World Bank
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit =Zimbabwe Dollars (ZS)
At Appraisal: US$ 1.00  =Z$ 2.00
Z$S .00  =  US$ 0.50
At Completion: US$ 1.00  =  Z$ 20.00
Z$ 1.00  =  US$ 0.05
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January I - December 31
Forestry Commission: January I - December 31
Vice President:       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:   Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:    Sushma Ganguly
Staff Member:         Caesar Chidawanylka



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AN]D DEVELOPMEENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3179-ZW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.                                            .............................................i
EVALUATION SUMRARY ..
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ........................... .................I
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ... .................................. ..1
B. ACHEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ......................................3
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT                   .....................................    7
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .....................................  10
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ......................................   1
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .....................................                       12
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                    .. ................................... 12
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS                        .....................................  14
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED AFFECTING THE PROJECT ....................................  15
PART EI: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS                                                   17
TABLE 2:  RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS                                              18
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIETABLE .19
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED
AND ACTUAL .19
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                20
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .21
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .21
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ......................................................    21
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ......................................................  22
TABLE 9A: ECONOMIC COSTS OF RETURN ..................................................... 22
TABLE 9B: OTHER BENEFITS ...................          ................................... 23
TABLE 10:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ................................................... 24
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL
STATEMENTS ......................................................  26
TABLE 12:  BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..............................................  26
TABLE 13:  BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ...................................................... 27
APPENDICES:
A. MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE
B. GOVERNMENT'S CONTRIBUTION
C. MISCELLANEOUS TABLES
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FORESTRY RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
(Loan No. 3179-ZW)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Forestry
Resources Management and Development Project in Zimbabwe for which Loan No.
3179-ZW in the amount of US$ 14.50 million was approved on September 27, 1990
and became effective on April 17, 1991.
The loan was closed on schedule on June 30, 1998, and was almost fully
disbursed (99.8%). Co-financing for the project was provided by Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (BADEA), (US$ 4.8 million); Canadian
Intemational Development Agency (CIDA), (US$ 1.5 million); and Danish
International Development Agency, (DANIDA), (US$ 6.7 million).
The ICR is based on a draft prepared by staff of FAO/CP and a consultant
from the World Bank (WB) on behalf of the Africa Rural Development Operations
Group 1 of WB. The borrower contributed to the ICR by providing comments and
views which have been reflected in the mission's Aide Memoire and in the
completion report, and by preparing its own evaluation on the project's execution.
Comments were also solicited from the co-financiers but only DANIDA responded
and their comments have been incorporated in the report.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission
which took place between May 4-23, 1998. It is based on material in the project files
as well as findings of the ICR mission in the field from August 17-28, 1998.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FORESTRY RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
(Loan No. 3179-ZW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Forest Resources Management and Development Project (FRMDP) was a
follow-up to the IDA-funded Rural Afforestation Project Cr. 1368-ZW (1983-1989).
It was appraised in February/March 1989, presented to the Board on March 22, 1990,
and the Bank loan became effective on April 17, 1991. The project closed on
schedule on June 30, 1998.
Objectives
2.    The project had three broad objectives: to (i) conserve forests and the
environment as well as increase the production of wood for fuel and construction
purposes in the Communal Areas (CAs); (ii) improve forest grazing and wildlife
management; and (iii) improve the productivity and quality of the wood processing
industry. During project implementation, the target area for objective (i) was
expanded to include Resettlement Areas (RAs). These objectives were appropriate
and realistic given the constraints that, at the time, faced the forestry subsector,
particularly the decline in the area and quality of forest cover, deficits in fuelwood
supplies in most of the CAs; environmental degradation in the CAs as a result of
uncontrolled deforestation and livestock grazing; and the under-utilization of the
country's plantation softwood resource. The objectives were also in line with the
development strategies of the Government of Zimbabwe (GOZ) and the assistance
strategies of the Bank and other donors. Several lessons learned from the IDA-funded
Rural Afforestation Project (RAP) were applied to the Rural Afforestation
Component.
3.    These objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of three
components namely, the Rural Afforestation, the Forest Grazing and Wildlife
Management and the Commercial Forestry components. The three components were



- . 
funded by DANIDA, CIDA and WB/BADEA, respectively. Various changes and
modifications were made to the original project designs relating to all three
components, mainly to respond to changing priorities of beneficiaries or to respond to
emerging challenges arising from the changing economic environment. The rural
afforestation component was restructured and its objectives modified in 1995 to
include the resettlement areas and aspects such as capacity strengthening for the
Forestry Extension Services division (FES) and enhanced support for agroforestry
research. The forest grazing and wildlife component was also restructured following a
review in 1996. As a result, the wildlife component was dropped as it no longer
reflected the priorities of the intended beneficiaries while the forest grazing element
was reduced in scope to fit with available resources. Some changes were also made to
the commercial forestry component in recognition of the more competitive operating
and marketing environment ushered in by the economic reform program (ESAP),
adopted by the government in 1991. Restructuring of the FC, to enable it to respond
adequately to the changing macro-economic environment, became a major focus of
the project from 1995. On the negative side, however, the three components were
implemented as separate projects as the various individual donors supervised their
respective components without much co-ordination with other co-financiers. Also no
clear indicators were specified in the project appraisal document as these were only
developed at a very late stage during the implementation phase, thus it has proved
difficult to determine precisely how far the original development objectives have
been achieved.
Achievement of Objectives
4.    Rural Afforestation Component: The project largely achieved its objectives
and, in physical terms, equaled or exceeded most of the appraisal targets. Nearly 52
million seedlings have been produced with project assistance, thereby increasing
potential production of woody products by some 150,000 cubic meter per annum,
plus valuable non-woody products. The woodland management and conservation
program became far more extensive than the seven pilots that had been envisaged at
appraisal, with 540 projects being established covering over 73,000 hectares. Project
assistance has also increased potential horticultural products (from fruit trees) by 300
million fruits per year. These outputs have helped increase fuel and pole wood
supply, raise rural incomes and, to some extent, ameliorate environmental
degradation and deforestation in the CAs and RAs.
5.    Forest Grazing and Wildlife Management Component: The original
objectives of this component were only partially achieved as the wildlife sub-
component was dropped while the scope of the forestry grazing sub-component was
scaled down mainly as a result of delays in the release of project funds.
Implementation of project activities only started in 1996 and the project has been
extended to the year 2001. Satisfactory progress has been made on the component.
Ten resource management committees (RMCs) have been established and these have
been actively promoting initiatives covering controlled grazing in state forests and
income-generating activities such as controlled thatch and broom grass harvesting,
honey production, mushroom collecting and fire monitoring.



- i -
6.    Significant progress has been made in raising public awareness about the
importance of forest conservation and woodland management, seedling production,
dissemination of technical information on tree growing and the development of
various forest resources management regimes, as well as developing participatory
natural resourcrs management (NRM) approaches. The commercialization of the tree
growing activities should ensure that they will be maintained and sustained in the
future. These incremental benefits have come about through the development,
supported by the project, of an innovative and well-organised forest extension service
and system.
7.    Commercial Forestry Component: The component largely achieved its
objectives, having constructed a modern saw mill which is producing high quality
products, and rehabilitated two saw mills whose productivity and product quality
have significantly improved as a result. It is estimated that overall production will rise
from 65% of the mill's rated capacity in 1998, to 85% in 1999 and reach 100% in the
year 2000. The mill is achieving a satisfactory sawn timber recovery rate of 49%,
(comparable to the 50 - 55% average achieved in Europe and North America), and is
producing a superior product in terms of finish compared to other sawn timber
products in Zimbabwe. Work on the rehabilitation of a third mill is on-going. The
project has provided Zimbabwe with a greatly improved sawmilling industry (directly
through FC and indirectly by spurning FC's local competitors to invest in improved
technology). In addition to improving the efficiency of the industry and quality of
timber products, the project has increased the utilization of the available pinewood
resource and increased the industry's competitiveness in export markets. Kiln drying
of the entire output has reduced losses previously incurred due to staining of the
product, while the ability to dress and stress-grade the product has improved
suitability for timber exports and enhanced ability to enter higher value markets.
8.    The restructuring of the FC has reached an advanced stage. This will involve
the splitting of the present FC into three autonomous entities: a wholly GOZ-owned
commercial company (later to be floated on the local stock exchange) which would
take over the assets and liabilities of the commercial forestry activities of FC; a
commercial company, fully owned by FC, which would take over the tourism
activities of Ngamo Safaris; and the slimmed down FC to cany out, on behalf of
Government, the regulatory and development functions in the forestry sub-sector.
Implementation Record and Factors Affecting the Project
9.     The Bank loan to finance commercial forestry activities became effective
nine months late because of delays in finalizing the negotiations between GOZ and
BADEA for parallel financing of the component. Further delays in implementing the
component were experienced largely because of poor performance of the project
consultants, inadequate in-house capacity to supervise the consultants, procurement
delays and a bad access road to the mill site, particularly during the rainy seasons.
Construction of the mill was therefore completed 22 weeks behind schedule.



- iv -
10.   The implementation of the social forestry components, originally confined to
the CAs, was broadened to include RAs following the realization of the high level of
deforestation in those areas. The FC applied innovative techniques in implementing
the project so as to minimize the unfavourable impact of some of its staffing and
budgetary constraints. These included promoting a participatory approach at field
level; extension staff networking with the staff of other institutions; and the
involvement of schools and farm forestry promoters in project implementation. These
enabled extension contacts and project activities to take place on a wider scale, in
spite of constraints such as inadequate numbers of forestry extension staff; lack of
credit facilities for commercial tree farming; adverse weather conditions (droughts);
and lack of adequate and timely counterpart funds from GOZ to complement funds
provided by donors. About 45% of the seedling production and tree planting activities
were implemented by farm families; 27% by schools; and 25% by groups. In the
woodland and forestry grazing management component, the, FC promoted a
participatory approach involving the formation of village-level resource management
committees (RMCs) which were encouraged to regulate grazing and harvesting of
trees and to promote of other forest-based income generating activities in their areas.
This approach appears to be relatively successful in promoting sustainable utilization
of forest resources.
Project Costs and Financing
11.       Total project costs are estimated to be US$50.1 million compared with
the appraisal estimate of US$64 million. The difference is largely attributable to the
sharp decline in the value of the Zimbabwe dollar against all major currencies during
the project implementation period. The actual costs are likely understated because
they do not include the contribution of the beneficiaries, estimated at US$7 million at
appraisal, but which, for lack of records, the ICR mission was unable to confirm. The
project was financed by loans from the WB and BADEA (US$14.5 million and
US$4.8 million respectively); grants from DANIDA and CIDA (US$6.7 million and
US$1.5 million respectively); and local contributions from the FC (equivalent
US$18.0 million); and GOZ (equivalent US$5.4 million) in addition to constructing a
tarred access road to the mill site.'
Project Sustainabflity
12.     Overall, project sustainability is likely because of the long-term viability of
the commercial operations on which about three-quarters of the project funding was
spent. FC has recently completed a supply and demand forecast for coniferous saw
logs from their existing resource; these indicate adequate supplies for the.
' The road was originally to be financed by the WB loan but was eventually funded by the Departnent
of State Roads as part of the national trunk road network program. The loan funds were re-allocated to
other areas within the project, particularly saw mill equipment and other goods.



- v -
Chimanimani sawmill and the rehabilitated mills for the next 30 years. FC's
commercial operations will soon be commercialized, thus ushering in a more
competitive operational environment, which would be more profit-oriented. The
proposed restructuring and the attendant increased autonomy should improve
sustainability. With regard to the social forestry activities, FC is planning to put in
place a number of measures aimed at reducing the impact of uncertainties about GOZ
recurrent budget funding and extension staffing levels. These damage limitation
strategies, as described in the Operation Plan, should enhance the sustainability of the
for the social forestry activities supported under the project. While the sustainability
of the FES is critically dependent on the implementation of this survival plan, the
commercialization of the tree growing activities promoted under the project should
ensure the long-term sustainability of these activities at the community level,
Bank Performance
13.    The Bank's performance was satisfactory throughout the project cycle. Both
the concept and design of the project were appropriate, and drew upon lessons
learned from the Rural Afforestation Project (RAP). However, the Bank's failure to
guide the Borrower as to the most appropriate way of constructing the Chimanimani
mill (on a turnkey basis, or on the basis of separate contracts for the construction of
civil works and for the procurement of machinery and installation) led to
procurement and construction lapses. The Bank should also have provided training to
the client on Bank procurement procedures at the beginning of project
implementation to avoid delays that were experienced as a result of the client's lack
of familiarity with these during the initial stages of the project.
Borrower Performance
14.    The Borrower's performance was marginally satisfactory as the government
failed to comply with two key Loan Agreement Covenants: one requiring the
conversion of FC's long-term government loans into equity and the other requiring
government to give FC adequate funding to carry out its services. Due to in-house
capacity limitations, FC, although committed to the project, was not able to
adequately supervise the consultants who were not performing satisfactorily. As a
result, the Chimanimani saw mill was not completed on schedule, and a number of
design and construction faults due to these lapses have since dogged mill operations
and resulted in the mill not achieving the anticipated production levels and in FC
incurring expenditure on additional capital investment to rectify the faults.
Assessment of Outcome
15.     The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory, having largely
achieved its objectives and showing a reasonable chance of sustainability, at least in
the medium term. The sawmill is estimated to attain an economic rate of return



- vi -
(ERR) of 22%. It is, however, not possible to estimate the return for the whole
project because, due to lack of adequate data on costs, it is difficult to estimate the
ERR for the social forestry components. The mill has also directly and indirectly
created about 1,000 new jobs, and socio-economically opened up a remote and
hitherto inaccessible part of the country.
Future Operations
16.     So as to limit the adverse impact of reduced recurrent budget funding from
GOZ, FC will continue to devolve more activities to the communities, networking
with other organizations providing similar services in rural areas, incorporate the
forestry extension service into the mainstream FC, and explore possibilities for cost
recovery for some services it renders. A medium-term plan for the commercial
forestry operations has been prepared envisaging: (i) the commercialization of the
operations and subsequent floating of a company on the local stock exchange; (ii)
concentrating on the core business of timber production and wholesaling; and (iii)
improving management controls and techniques.
Lessons Learned
17.     Lessons learned include:
*    the provision of links with markets, including market and price
information, by the extension service, thereby demonstrating the
commercial value of forest resources, proved to be an important
incentive for promoting the production of forest products and other
wood-based production, and ensuring the long term sustainability of
these activities, among rural communities;
*    adequate farmer training and technical back-up, as well as access to a
good seed bank, as provided under the project, are essential for the
successful promotion of seedling production and tree planting
programs;
*    in the absence of supervisory capacity in the executing agency,
turnkey engineering packages should be considered when undertaking
a complex construction operation such as the Chimanimani saw mill;
*    in order to minimize delays, project implementation procedures and
standards, including those relating to procurement, initiation and
approval, as well as modifications of technical designs, should be
established early in the project and it is critical to ensure that all
interested parties such as consultants, contractors, and the
implementing agency (ies) are familiar with these.



- vii -
*    synchronization of supervision missions from different donor agencies
could have resulted in better co-ordination of activities, the adoption
of a commron approach by donors and speedier resolution of some
implementation problems.
development indicators should be defined at the outset of the project to
ensure consistency and accuracy in measuring the success of project
activities in achieving the intended development objectives.



-IrA-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FORESTRY RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
(Loan No. 3179-ZW)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The Forestry Resources Management and Development Project (FRMDP)
objectives were to: (i) conserve forests and the environment, as well as to increase the
production of wood for fuel and construction purposes in the Communal Areas; (ii)
improve forest grazing and wildlife management; and (iii) improve the productivity
and quality of the wood processing industry. Although not part of the original
objectives, the successful restructuring of the Forestry Commission (FC) became an
additional focus of the project.
2.    The above objectives were appropriate and realistic given the constraints that,
at the time, faced the forestry subsector, particularly the decline in the area and
quality of forest cover, deficits in fuelwood supplies in most of the CAs;
environmental degradation in the CAs as a result of uncontrolled deforestation and
livestock grazing; and the under-utilization of the country's plantation softwood
resource. The objectives were also in line with the development strategies of the
Government of Zimbabwe (GOZ) and the assistance strategies of the Bank and other
donors. Several lessons learned from the IDA-funded Rural Afforestation Project
(RAP) (Cr. 1368-ZW) (1983-1989) were applied to the Rural Afforestation
Component. However, no clear performance indicators were specified in the project
document and these were only developed at a very late stage in the implementation
phase, thus it has proved difficult to determine precisely how far the original
development objectives have been achieved.



-2-
3.    The project planned to achieve the above objectives, by supporting three
components, namely (i) a rural afforestation component, aiming to promote in the
CAs, the culture of tree planting and woodland management of exotic as well as
indigenous species; (ii) a program to improve forest grazing and wildlife management
in communal areas surrounding state forests in the Midlands and Matebeleland
provinces; and(iii) a commercial component aimed at upgrading the FC's logging,
extraction, and saw milling facilities and operations, mainly by rehabilitating FC's
old mills and equipment and by building a new mill at Chimanimani. Several
modifications (summarized in paragraph 4 and 5 below) have, however, been made
during the life of the project to accommodate changing priorities. The Bank and other
co-financiers of the project were quite flexible in this regard. However, the individual
components of the project were virtually implemented as separate projects and were
supervised by the respective donors independently without much involvement of the
other co-financiers. For this reason the Bank's supervision missions were more
focused on the comrnercial component which it financed, than on t4e social forestry
components.
4.    The government secured parallel (grant) financing from DANIDA for the
rural afforestation component. In 1993, the development objectives were amended to
include resettlement areas when it was realized that these areas were experiencing
high rates of deforestation and rapid environmental degradation. The immediate
objectives were made more specific than the SAR objectives, by including
strengthening the capacity of the FES; enhanced support for agroforestry research;
participatory identification, planning and implementation of indigenous woodland
management projects; raised awareness and understanding regarding catchment
protection. A grant agreement was signed in 1990, between the governments of
Canada and Zimbabwe, to implement the forest grazing and wildlife management
component (later renamed community-based natural resources management project),
but full implementation was not possible until mid 1996, largely because of a lack of
GOZ counterpart funds and delays in the release of project funds. Consequently, the
project's objectives and activities were amended to align them with the reduced GOZ
funding and community preferences. The wildlife management sub-component was
dropped, largely because it no longer fitted with the communities' priorities and it
would take a long time to develop methodologies for sustainable utilization of natural
resources suitable for the new priorities, while the scope of the forest



- 3 -
5.    The Bank and BADEA provided loans grazing activities was reduced.to co-
finance the commercial forestry component. The project was prepared under a
controlled economic environment in which the sector was well protected in the
domestic market. However, by the time project implementation started in 1991, the
government had adopted an economic reform program which resulted in opening up
the economy. FC had to change its operating strategies to respond to the new situation
and decided to revise the mill design and technology to ensure production of higher
quality products which would be more competitive in both the domestic and export
markets. The original plan to install a 100,000 cubic meter/per annum sawmill based
on frame saw technology, was revised and it was agreed instead to install a 55 cubic
meter mill based on bandsaw technology. As a result, a number of the original inputs
had to be modified with the Bank and BADEA agreeing to several reallocations, the
major ones involving higher allocations for consultant services (for technical
assistance) and goods, than had originally been planned. In addition, the Bank
responded to a request from the FC to assist it in preparing itself for,the new
challenges arising from the implementation of the economic reform program, by
providing technical assistance (TA) to help FC in the preparation of its restructuring
proposals. This became one of the main areas of focus of Bank supervision missions
from 1995 onwards. Through this, the project has also made a positive contribution in
persuading both the govemment and PC to examine possibilities for moving towards
privatization as now contained in the FC's restructuring proposals. This should result
in the emergence of a number of medium scale enterprises that will generate a more
competitive environment in the sector.
6.    Total project cost was estimated at US$64 million of which US$38 million
would be in foreign exchange. The World Bank (WB) and the Forestry Commission
(FC) were each to finance nearly a quarter of the costs, while the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) and the Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA) were each to finance nearly 15% of the costs. The
remainder was to be financed by GOZ (12%); the target groups (11%); and the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) (2%).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    The project largely achieved its objectives. A comparison of physical
achievements, as compared to the appraisal targets, is set out in Table 5. The
achievements of individual components are discussed below.
Rural Forestry Development
8.    The objectives of this component were largely achieved. The various
strategies and activities promoted under the project have resulted in significant
improvements in woodland management and sustainable utilization of forest



- 4 -
resources. Covering 58 districts (SAR target 42 districts), the project, through the
forestry extension service, assisted in increasing the production of wood, non-wood
forest products and horticultural products in CAs and, to some extent, in RAs. Nearly
52 million seedlings were produced (SAR target 51.5 million seedlings); and 35
million trees were planted (SAR target 46.4 million), while 750 agro-forestry projects
were established. Project related activities are expected to result in the production of
150,000 m3 of wood per year (SAR target 45,000 m3) and 300 million fruit trees per
year. The woodland management and conservation program became far more
extensive than the seven pilots that had been envisaged at appraisal, with 540 projects
in operation and covering over 73,000 ha. A large number of these (190) are under
individual tenure while a further 200 are under school care. This was achieved despite
various tenure and sociological problems related to sharing of benefits and
management that have hampered community management. In addition, the project
provided short term training to nearly 21,000 people, slightly above the SAR target of
18,000. The supply of 74 motor vehicles, 22 motor cycles, 40 bicycles and 18
computer sets to the forestry extension department of FC played an important role in
improving the working conditions for staff and in strengthening its capacity to
provide extension services to farmers. There has also been considerable indirect
positive impact among families and communities, although these families did not
keep in touch with the forestry extension network. It was also realized that it was
important to provide links with product markets, including information on demand,
prices and means of connecting with the markets. This proved important as an
incentive in the production of poles, and planting of fruit trees, but was also critical
for those farmers producing seedlings for sale. The commercialization of these tree
growing activities is likely to ensure that they will be maintained and sustained in the
future.
9.    The activities supported under the project have had a positive influence on
some sectoral policies and programs developed recently. The development of the
proposed environmental law reform bill and programs such as the on-going District
Environmental Action Planning (DEAP), for example, have benefited much from
approaches and methodologies developed under the project. Significant progress has
also been made in raising public awareness, seedling production and dissemination of
technical information and the development of various forest resources management
regimes as well as participatory natural resources management (NRM) approaches.
The numerous woodland management and conservation projects that have been
initiated through the project have had a positive impact as indicated by the increasing
use of purchased exotic poles for roof construction versus cutting of such poles from
indigenous woodlands which shows the positive effect, on forest conservation, of the
tree growing activities in the smallholder areas. However, the high rate of
deforestation continues as a result of increasing human and livestock pressure in these
areas, and the low value attached to forest resources as opposed to agriculture. In any
case, reversing environmental degradation is a long-term process, and project
activities must not be viewed in isolation but in conjunction with other related
initiatives such as the Communal Areas Management Program for Indigenous
Resources (CAMPFIRE), the national conservation and bio-mass energy strategies
and other related rural development and environmental management programs.



- 5 -
Wildlife and Forest Grazing Management
10.    The objectives of the component were only partially achieved because the
full implementation of the component was not possible until 1996 due to a shortage
of GOZ counterpart funding; and largely because of this delay, the project was
redesigned with the wildlife sub-component being dropped while the remaining
forestry grazing sub-component was scaled down following a review in 1996.
Satisfactory progress has been made on the component since then. With the assistance
of the Forestry Extension Service, 10 Resource Management Committees (RMCs)
have been established, representing all the communities (about 14,000 households)
surrounding the Mafungautsi State Forest. The RMCs now determine development
priorities and are responsible for project planning, implementation, management and
monitoring of projects at the community level. The RMCs have been instrumental in
promoting community based sustainable utilization and resoprce management
activities covering controlled grazing and income-generating activities such as
controlled thatch and broom grass harvesting, bee keeping, mushroom collecting and
fire monitoring. About 90,000 kg of unprocessed honey is being harvested per
annum.
Commercial Forestry Development
11.   The component largely achieved its objectives. A modem sawmill with a
rated capacity of processing nearly 54,000 m3 sawn timber per annum was built at
Chimanimani (to replace three bush mills) and was commissioned in April 1997. The
mill is achieving a satisfactory sawn timber recovery rate of 49%, (comparable to the
50 - 55% average achieved in Europe and North America, with even more advanced
technology) and is producing a superior product in terms of finish compared to other
sawn timber products in Zimbabwe. Kiln drying of the entire output has reduced
losses previously incurred due to staining of the product, while the ability to dress
and stress-grade the product has improved suitability for timber exports and enhanced
ability to enter higher value markets. However, at the close of the project the mill was
producing only about 32,000 m3 sawn timber or about 60% of its rated capacity
because of downtime due to plant design faults, technical breakdowns, operational
staff s unfamiliarity with the plant, and erratic electricity supply. Most of these
problems (typical during the initial operational phase) should soon be resolved with
firther training of staff, the development and adoption of adequate maintenance
systems, and when a new power line currently under construction is connected to the
mill. It is estimated that overall production will rise from 65% of the mill's rated
capacity in 1998, to 85% in 1999 and reach 100% in the year 2000.'
'Recent FC reports indicate that significant progress has been made in resolving most of the initial
problems and mill performance has improved accordingly. However, due to the depressed domestic
market, production has been deliberately kept below mill potential to ensure that all product is
marketed immediately (mainly exports).



- 6 -
12.   Rehabilitation of two saw mills - Gwendigwe and Stapleford - has been
completed and, as a result, their productivity (sawn timber recovery rate increased by
almost one third) and product quality have improved significantly. Rehabilitation
work is underway on one other mill.
13.    The project has provided Zimbabwe with a greatly improved sawmilling
industry producing high quality timber products (directly through supporting FC and
indirectly by spurring FC's local competitors to invest in improved technology). The
sawmilling industry has improved during the period of the project in terms of
efficiency, product quality and production capability, thereby strengthening the
competitiveness of the Zimbabwean timber products in the regional and international
sawn timber export markets. The private sector has expanded and introduced
improved product quality in order to remain competitive. Chimanimani is the first
band saw mill in the country and the quality of band sawn timber is almost a
necessity to export to international markets. Band saw technology has not been
introduced into the other mills as yet but, with the increasing popularity of the
Chimanimani finish, this will likely come shortly. The industry has almost totally
moved to kiln dried timber which, to some degree, has possibly been spurred on by
the increased kilning capacity in the FC. The current depressed demand for softwood
timber in the domestic and regional markets (mainly Botswana and South Africa), is
not sufficient to absorb the increased output and, combined with the collapse of the
South East Asian markets, this has forced the domestic timber producers to search
more aggressively for new market opportunities in Europe and North America. The
higher quality timber products emanating from these recent investments have enabled
the industry to hold, and even expand, traditional export markets while achieving
encouraging successes in new markets. In addition to improving the efficiency and
quality of the product, the project has improved the utilization of the plantation
softwood resource in Zimbabwe, which was not being fully utilized prior to the
project.
Restructuring of Forestry Commission
14.  In response to a request from the FC to assist it in preparing itself for the new
challenges arising from the government's adoption of the economic reform program
in 1991, the Bank provided Technical Assistance (TA) to help FC in the preparation
of its restructuring proposals, and this became one of the main areas of focus of Bank
supervision missions from 1995 onwards. The preparation and approval process of
the restructuring proposals was, however, very slow and resulted in the failure by the
government to comply with a Loan covenant which required the conversion of FC's
long-term government loans into equity. The proposals were only approved by GOZ
in February 1998. Under the proposals, the present FC will be split into three
autonomous entities: a wholly GOZ-owned commercial company (later to be floated
on the local stock exchange) which would take over the assets and liabilities of the
commercial forestry activities of FC; a commercial company, fully owned by FC,
which would take over the tourism activities of Ngamo Safaris; and the slimmed
down FC to carry out, on behalf of Government, the regulatory and development



-7-
functions in the forestry sub-sector. Plans to implement the first phase of the
restructuring are underway, starting with the amendment of the Forestry Act expected
in the first quarter of 1999.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
15.    The Bank loan became effective on April 17, 1991, almost one year after the
Board date because of the Iraq/Kuwait war, which adversely affected BADEA's
ability to complete negotiations with GOZ regarding parallel financing for the
project. The Bank loan agreement had to be amended to allow funds to be disbursed
before the BADEA loan became effective. The commercial forestry component
therefore got off to a late start. Further delays resulted from misunderstandings
between GOZ and the Bank regarding procurement of TA, as well as the lengthy
period taken to replace the FC project coordinator following the death of the
incumbent in 1992. These delays also slowed down the rate of disbursement of the
Bank and BADEA loans. Once these issues were resolved, project implementation
progressed well except for other delays which were experienced down the line due to
revisions in technical designs of the mill and conflicts between FC and the
consultants regarding the latter's performance. Mill construction was therefore
completed 22 weeks behind schedule. The Bank loan was fully disbursed. Only half
of the BADEA loan was disbursed, and it was extended to the year 2000 to allow for
the completion of the sawmill rehabilitation program and the procurement of
additional equipment.
16.   The implementation of the rural afforestation component was extended
beyond the communal areas (CAs) and was broadened to include resettlement areas
(RAs). The FC forestry extension staff applied innovative techniques in implementing
the project in order to minimize the unfavorable impact of some of its institutional
and financial constraints. For example, they networked with the staff of other
institutions offering extension services in rural areas such as Agritex and NGOs;
encouraged school outreach programmes; and utilized farm forestry promoters. This
enabled forestry extension to have a wider coverage than it would have otherwise
achieved given the limited numbers of FC extension staff. About 45% of the seedling
production and tree planting activities were implemented by farm families; 27% by
schools; and 25% by groups. In the woodland and forestry grazing management
component, the FC promoted a participatory approach involving the formation of
village-level resource management committees (RMCs) composed of representatives
of the communities living near the forests. The RMCs have been instrumental in
regulating community activities related to grazing, harvesting of trees, firewood



- 8 -
collection and harvesting of ancillary wild crops such as grass, mushroom and honey
for personal use or for sale. This approach appears to be achieving encouraging
results in promoting sustainable utilization of forest resources in the area.
Factors Affecting Project Implementation
17.    Rural Forestry Development activities were adversely affected by: (i) the
inadequacy and high turnover of forestry extension staff (mainly due to poor
conditions of service); (ii) droughts in 1992 and 1995, which reduced seedling
production and the survival rate of young trees while also increasing dependency of
some rural communities on wood based income sources such as firewood sales; (iii)
inadequate recurrent budget from the G(OZ, which forced the curtailment or untimely
undertaking of project activities; (iv) lack of suitable and affordable termite control
mechanisms, which increased the mortality rate of trees and seedlings; and (v) the
absence of credit facilities for smallholder tree farming, as the Agricultural Finance
Corporation refused to grant loans for such activities. To some extent, the small
grants provided through the project's Support Fund compensated for the lack of credit
but, as these were free handouts, they are not sustainable. On the positive side, FC
extension staff sensitized the smallholder farmers on the commercial and income
generating potential of poles, fruits and other tree products, and promoted market
linkages for them. This, along with the provision of training, technical backstopping
and access to a good quality seed bank, contributed to the farmers' active
participation and interest in seedling production and tree planting under the project.
18.   The Wildlife and Forest Grazing Management activities were adversely
affected by the lack of counterpart funds from the GOZ and a delay in the submission
of an acceptable inception report and management plan to CIDA. As a result, major
activities under the component did not start until mid-1996.
19.    Commercial forestry operations were adversely affected by various factors.
Firstly, despite the lack of in-house capacity within FC to handle a project of this
magnitude, the FC chose the option of implementing the project on the basis of
separate contracts for the construction of civil works and for the procurement of
machinery and installation (which is more difficult and requires a lot of management
and supervision) instead of opting for turnkey operations (which are simpler,
minimize management requirements and reduce operational risks). Secondly, project
implementation was adversely affected by the unsatisfactory performance of the
project management consultants, during the detailed design and construction phases
of the Chimanimani sawmill project, and the lack of firmness by FC in supervising
them. Failure by the consultants to prepare procedural manuals in the early period of
the mill construction, resulted in quality problems, while the late submission of
drawings and specifications by the consultants and their usually slow response to
basic design changes requested by FC resulted in procurement delays. Despite several
recommendations from WB supervision missions for the consultants to be replaced,
FC did not terminate their contract until April 1997. Thirdly, procurement delays
were experienced, particularly in the early stages. This was largely due to inadequate



understanding, by FC project staff, of the WB procedures that required international
competitive bidding in most cases, the slow response to FC's requests for no
objections by the Bank (before procurement review responsibility was devolved to
the Resident Mission) and BADEA. A project launch workshop, as well as the
provision of regular training support by the Bank, to familiarize project staff with the
relevant procedures would have been helpful. Such support, for example related to
the preparation of bid documents and specifications, could have helped to ensure that
the FC avoided procurement of inferior quality goods and got the best value for
money on its tenders. Fourthly, the introduction of an additional step by GOZ in the
procurement review process requiring the Govemment Tender Board to submit all
tenders to the Office of the President for further review, although eventually
removed, caused critical delays on several tenders. Finally, in the initial stages of the
project, timely delivery of materials and other goods was hampered due to a poor
access road connecting the mill site to the nearest tarred road, particularly in the rainy
season. A major positive factor was FC's keenness and continued commitrnent to the
project, including honoring its financial obligations to the project.
Project Costs and Financing
20.   Costs. Total project costs are expected to be about US$50.1 million (see
Table 8A) compared to the appraisal estimate of US$64 million. The differences can
be attributed to: (i) the steady erosion of the value of the local currency unit
throughout project implementation (e.g. US$1.00 = Z$2.00 at appraisal compared to
Z$23.00 at project completion); (ii) the decline of the value of the US dollar vis-a-vis
the Swedish Kroner, and delays by the consultants for the mill in fulfilling their
assignment resulted in their costs increasing by over 76%; and (iii) a cut-back in the
rural forestry component following a DANIDA review in 1995. The total cost figure
is also under-stated because, due to lack of reliable data, it does not include the costs
of inputs provided by the non-FC beneficiaries, estimated at appraisal to total US$7.0
million.
21.   Financing. The project was financed by a mix of external loans and grant
finance and local contributions from the FC, GOZ and project beneficiaries. The rural
forestry component was financed by a DANIDA grant; the forest grazing
management component by a CIDA grant; and the commercial forestry component by
WB and BADEA loans. The WB loan of US$14.5 million was almost fully disbursed
(99.8%), and financed only components of the Chimanimani saw mill in the
following manner: (i) Works - mainly sawmill buildings and related civil works
(US$3.43 million), (ii) Goods - including sawmill and logging equipment (US$6.63
million), and (iii) Consultants Services - engineering consultants for preparing the
feasibility study and supervising the construction of the mill and installation of
equipment (US$4.4 million). DANIDA provided DKK46.2 million (US$6.7 million)
out of the original comnnittment of DKK62.4 million (US$9.4 million) for the rural
afforastation component, including support for FES. BADEA provided US$4.8
million out of the original loan of US$9.4 million for the Chimanimani sawmill and
rehabilitation of other mills (the loan has been extended for another 2 years). CIDA



- 10-
provided US$1.5 million for the forest grazing component, compared to the original
commitment of US$1.0 million (the closing date for the grant is now end of the year
2001); the FC provided the equivalent of nearly US$18.0 million compared to the
original commitment of US$15.0 million; and, in addition to building the access road
to the new mill, GOZ provided US$5.4 million compared to the original commitment
of US$7.8 million. The non-FC project beneficiaries also contributed in cash and in
kind but due to the lack of reliable data, the monetary value of their contribution
cannot be reliably estimated.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   Overall, project sustainability is likely, particularly because of the inherent
strength of the commercial forest activities on which about three-quarters of the
project funding was spent.
23.   Rural Forestry and Forest Grazing Management Activities. Sustainability
is uncertain beyond the short to medium term because of uncertainties regarding
recurrent budget funding from GOZ, and potential staffing difficulties within the
FES. DANIDA has agreed to finance field operations in rural forestry development
for the next three years, but uncertainties remain about the level of future budgetary
allocations from GOZ. Restructuring of the Forestry Extension Service is planned and
should result in greater security of tenure for extension staff, but staff numbers may
still be inadequate. CIDA funding of the forest grazing management activities does
not close till the year 2001, but faces similar issues regarding GOZ counterpart
funding and extension support services. FC is trying to address these issues through
various innovative strategies, including devolving some activities to the communities,
strengthening linkages with other organizations providing similar services in rural
areas, mainstreaming of the forestry extension service into the FC, and exploring cost
recovery for some services so as meet to part of the recurrent budget. While the
sustainability of the FES is critically dependent on the implementation of this survival
plan, the commercialization of the tree growing activities promoted under the project
should ensure the long term sustainability of these activities at the community level,
particularly such activities as seedling production, tree planting and other income-
generating activities started under the project.
24. Commercial Forestry Operations. The sustainability of the commercial
forestry activities is likely because the operations are financially viable, particularly
when the current operational bottlenecks regarding the running of the mill (typical
during the first year of operation) and staff training are sorted out, and the current
depressed domestic and regional timber marketing situation improves. Additionally,
the operations will soon be commercialized, thus ushering in a more competitive
operational environment, which would be more profit-oriented. FC has recently



- 11 -
completed a supply and demand forecast for coniferous saw logs from their existing
resource; these indicate adequate supplies for the Chimanimani sawmill and the
rehabilitated mills for the next 30 years.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.     World Bank performance was generally satisfactory throughout the life of
the project. Both the concept and design of the project were appropriate and sound as
well as in agreement with the Government's and WB's strategy for the forestry sub-
sector, and drew upon lessons learned from the Rural Afforestation Project (RAP).
The WB assessed the commercial aspects of the project reasonably well. Loan
disbursements were generally made on time. However, the borrower complained
about the long turn-around time in the review process for ICB procurements. The WB
also shares responsibility for some lapses in the procurement process, particularly its
failure to advise the Borrower to follow the turnkey option for the construction of the
mill. The Bank should also have provided training to the project staff on Bank
procurement procedures at the beginning of project implementation to avoid delays
that resulted from the client's lack of familiarity of these during the initial stages of
the project.
26.   The project was actively supervised and 11 supervision missions reviewed it2.
The missions not only monitored the project; they also provided advice to the Project
Co-ordination Unit (PCU) on procurement, technical problems and project
management. Their timely interventions and guidance favourably affected project
implementation. There was, however, little synchronization between these missions
and those sent by BADEA, DANIDA and CIDA, respectively, to review the
components they financed in parallel. As a result, for all intents and purposes, the
rural forestry components appeared to be implemented as separate projects. Although
this did not have any adverse effect on project implementation (as it easily could
have), synchronization of supervision missions from the different agencies would
have been desirable. Joint supervision with BADEA, for example, could have
resulted in better co-ordination of activities and speedier resolution of some
implementation problems encountered in the sawmill component.
2 In addition to the 11 full supervision missions, 8 portfolio status updates were
prepared by the task manager in the field.



- 12 -
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27.   Borrower performance was marginally satisfactory. Although GOZ complied
with most covenants under the WB loan agreement, it failed to honour an important
covenant requiring the conversion of government debt to FC into equity. As a result
of this, the FC-'s liquidity was weakened as the organization was forced to use up
most of its reserves or to rely on bank overdrafts to sustain its operations while
various planned investments, such as replanting of forests, had to be postponed. The
GOZ also substantially failed to meet its budgetary obligations to finance recurrent
costs for the rural forestry and forest grazing management components. Even on
occasions when funds were available, because of bureaucratic procedures involving
the Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism and the Ministry of Finance, the
lead time between FC requesting and receiving the funds was often 2-4 months. In
the procurement operations, GOZ introduced another layer in the procurement chain
(tenders to be cleared by the Office of the President) which contributed to further
delays in the process.
28.   The FC showed continuous commitment to the project throughout. It was
aggressive in pursuing ways and means of developing an effective extension
organization and systems for achieving the project's objectives; the initiatives shown
by them have greatly contributed to the positive outcome of the project. With regard
to project management and supervision, failure by FC to be firmer and more decisive
in dealing with, and monitoring the performance of, the consultants for the
Chimanimani mill was a major flaw. However, taking into account that the PCU staff
had limited experience in imnplementing a project of this magnitude and complexity,
they performed reasonably well and their confidence and capability developed
significantly during the project.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.    The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory, having largely achieved
its main objectives and showing a reasonable chance of medium to long-term
sustainability for the major activities of the project.
Rural Forestry Development.
30.    The outcome was satisfactory when the impact of extension on seedling
production, tree planting and the promotion of woodland management, is considered
in the light of the financial and staffing constraints which the component faced. As a
result of the project, there has been a successful establishment and operation of
decentralized community and private nurseries; an increase in the production of
woody and non-woody products; a relatively successful woodland management and



- 13 -
environmental conservation and rehabilitation program; and the development of
institutional capacity for forestry extension.
Forest Grazing Management.
31.    The outcome of this component cannot be properly assessed at this point as
activities began late and, therefore, so far, only limited results (though quite positive,
such as the development of participatory methodologies in natural resource
management and the establishment of RMCs) have been realized.
Commercial Forestry Development.
32.    The outcome of this component was satisfactory. A modem and financially
viable (estimated financial rate of return 16%) mill, reportedly themost advanced in
Southern Africa, has been established, is operational, and there is a marked
improvement in productivity (as evidenced by a high timber recovery rate of nearly
50% and the improved logging operations) and product quality. Demand for its
timber, both locally and in export markets, is rising. Nevertheless.the efficiency of
the mill is still not up to the required standard, and FC still needs to perfect its
operating and maintenance techniques to realize the level achieved in similar
operations elsewhere in the world. The refurbishment of FC's older mills has enabled
these mills to improve productivity (timber recovery rates have improved from
around 30% to nearly 40%) and product quality.
33.    On the institutional side, in the PCU, the project has helped build in-house
capacity in project management and co-ordination, which the FC may call upon to
implement similar projects in the future.
34.    On the socio-economic side, the Chimanimani mill has transformed a
backward area into a vibrant growth area. About 300 new jobs have been created at
the mill, another 100 in the logging operations and possibly another 500-600 in
downstreamn operations, such as in transport businesses, produce marketing etc.,
associated with the project. The 12 km tarred road, constructed by GOZ largely to
provide good access to the mill, has opened up a hitherto inaccessible area and
brought about concomitant benefits such as improving niral commerce and
encouraging agricultural production in the area.
35.    The outcome of project assistance with the restucturing of the FC was
marginally satisfactory largely because FC did not get adequate and timely support
for the process from the parent ministry. The FC's proposals, under preparation and
consideration since 1995, were only approved by the Cabinet in February 1998 and
the fornal restructuring will be implemented during the first half of 1999 following
the Parliamnentary approval of the amendment of the Forestry Act.



- 14-
Economic Rates of Return (ERR)
36.    The commercial forestry operations are estimated to achieve an ERR of
22% (SAR estimate of 30%). The return is less than the SAR estimate largely
because of the late start of saw milling operations and the below-capacity mill
production in the initial period of operations. Due to lack of reliable data on costs, it
is not possible to estimate the rates of return for the rural forestry component and,
therefore, for the project as a whole.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
Rural Forestry Development
37.     So as to limit the adverse impact of reduced recurrent budget funding from
GOZ, and to enhance the sustainability of activities initiated under the project, FC
will continue to devolve more activities to the communities, as well as networking
with other organizations providing similar services in the rural areas. There are also
plans to institutionalize the forestry extension service into the mainstream FC and to
explore possibilities of cost recovery for some services so as to meet part of the
recurrent budget of the extension activities.
Commercial Forestry Development
38.    In preparation for commercialization and eventual privatization, FC has
prepared a medium-term plan for the commercial forestry operations. This envisages
floating the company on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange about two years down the
line; concentrating on its core business of timber production and wholesaling;
reducing the number of products produced, better synchronization of production with
market requirements; cost reduction and rationalization; more efficient debts
(accounts receivable) management; and technical staff training.



- 15 -
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.    The following lessons have been learned:
Rural Forestry Development and Grazing Management
*  By demonstrating the income generating potential for poles, fruits and
other forest products through promotion of market linkages and
information, thereby creating awareness of the commercial value of trees,
the extension staff successfully promoted interest in,tree planting and
forest resource management among rural communities.
*  The provision of adequate training and technical backup, as well as access
to a good seed bank, as was provided under the project, is essential for the
successful development of private or community nurseries.
Commercial Forestry Development
* When undertaking a complex construction operation such as the
Chimanimani saw mill, consideration should be given to a limited
number of turnkey engineering packages, whereby the supplier would be
responsible for everything within the package. This would minimize
management and supervision demands on the part of the recipient
institution, while at the same time placing the burden of design and start-
up problems on the equipment supplier. The concept of a large number of
equipment suppliers, although an acceptable practice in the saw mill
industry in industrialized countries, places a cumbersome burden on the
procurement of goods and supervision of activities, including quality
control particularly of consulting engineers. It also results in a large
number of operating and maintenance manuals of varying quality. For
developing countries, which may lack supervisory and managerial
capacity, greater consideration should be given to using a limited number
of equipment suppliers and the supply of large integrated packages.
* In order to minimize delays, project implementation procedures and
standards, including those relating to procurement, initiation and
approval, as well as modifications of technical designs, should be
established early in the project and it is critical to ensure that all
interested parties such as consultants, contractors, and the implementing
agency (ies) are familiar with these.



- 16-
General
* Synchronization of supervision missions from different donor
agencies would have been desirable. Although this did not have any
adverse effect on project implementation (as it easily could), joint
supervision with the other three donors supporting the project, could have
resulted in better co-ordination of activities, the adoption of a common
approach by donors and speedier resolution of some implementation
problems.
* Development indicators should be defined at the outset of the project
to ensure consistency and accuracy in measuring the success of project
activities in achieving the intended development objectives.



- 17-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                     E7           Fl            I            F7
Sector policies                     E            E            E             E
Financial objectives                  l          E               l          E
Institutional development           E            El            0             0
Physical objectives                 |            E            E             El
Poverty reduction                   E1          Fl /]                       E
Gender issues                                                 E E  El       E
Other social objectives             El           E            E             E
Environmental objectives            E            E            E             E
Public sector management            E           []            E             E
Private sector development          E            E            [I 
Other (specify)                       l            l          E             E
B. Project sustainabilit            Likely      Unliely    Uncertain
C. Bank performance             satisfactory   Satsfactory   Deficient
( )          ( )          (I )
Identification                   E            E            E
Preparation assistance           E                          El
Appraisal
Supervision                         W    i n               [



-    g18-
D. Borrower performance           satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                      Z            W7
Implementation
Covenant compliance                           /1          [
Operation (if applicable)
I(marginally satisfactory)
Highly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of outcome        satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactorv  unsatisfactory
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credit title             Pmrpose             Year of approval           Status
Preceding operations
1. Rural Afforestation     Forestry Development              1983              Closed 03/89
Project (Cr. 13680 ZW)
Following operations
1. Agricultural Services   Institutional Development         1998            Effective 12/28/98
and Management
Project (Cr; 3080 ZW)



- 19-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned           Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                                                              03/88
1)                                                                       09/88
2)
Appraisal                                          02/89                02/16/89
Negotiations                                       11/89                11/16/89
Board presentation                                 09/89                03/22/90
Signing                                                                 09/27/90
Effectiveness                                      07/90                04/17/90
Midterm review (if applicable)                     06/94                 06/94
Project completion                                 06/98                06/30/98
Loan closing                                      060/98                10/31/98
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Millions)
FY91   FY92  FY93   FY94   FY95  FY96  FY97   FY98
Appraisal estimate            1.7    4.9     8.7      11.3     12.5   13.5   14.5   14.5
Actual                       -       0.6      1.0     1.62     3.96    12.04   14.37   14.48
Actual as % of estimate      0        12%    11%    14%        31%    89%    99%       100%
Date of final disbursement:
November 9, 1998



- 20 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Inplementation
a)     Rural Afforestation
Indicator                  SR Target   ActuallEstimate                      Remarks
Seedlings Produced        51.5 million    51.98 million          Virtually all production from farmers'
I nursenes
Trees Planted             46.4 million    35 million +         1 Target allows for 10% culls.
| Seedlings planted outside CAs and as
| few-tree-plantings not counted.
PilotPole aTmeabnnt Plants 17  2                     Demand for treatment plants
_____________________   ______ _____ ______   __dim inished
Potential Wood Production   45,000        150,000 m3/yr.       i Mainly poles and posts
|Potential Fruit Production    N/A        | 200 million fruits/yr.    Mangos, avocados, papaws, citrus
Number of Woodland         7              540                    Majority undff schools or individuals
Management Projects
AreaIof Woodlaad Mngt  N/A     73s000 ha             72,500 under communities or rural
district councils
Non-wood Forest Products   N/A            90,000 kg/year of      Associated mainly with woodland
honey, mushrooms,     management, but honey production
medicines & fodde.    also in woodlots.
In-service Short Courses    I N/A         82                     860 participants
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~eiie .  ,odr                          aloi.odos
[External Short Courses     N/A            20                     35 participants
Long Term Training        N/A             30 participants        Both in Zimbabwe and overseas
Farmer & Exten Aid       118,100          20,900 participants   Includes training for AGRITEX,
Training                                INGOs and farmers.
Resource Centre          1                3 videos, 2 slide series, T   video and 4 leaflets translated into
Productions             1                 3 handbooks, 4 leaflets. j Shona and Ndebele.
Motor Vehicles                            _                     _                                  ]
122
Motor Cycles
L Bicycles   ____________l_10__ _ _ _                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Computers (with pnters)                  1 |                                           _
b)     Commercial Forestry Development
Indicator               i SAR Target    Actual/Estimate                     Remarks
[New Sawmills Established        1                  1            Completed 22 months behind schedule.
1 Sawmills Improved            4                   3            Inprovement works to continue till
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ya 2000.



- 21 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.  Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report             Estimated                      Actual
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined        Status           fInpact of study
1. Market Study       To assess tthe expected product Completed in 1993    Indicative product
acceptance from the new mill                   distribution.
2. Mid-term Review    Project review             Done in 1994        Slightly modified project
objectives
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)   Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
ITEM                                   Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign           Total
costs     costs               costs      costs
1. Rural Forestry                      12.6       4.0        16.6      7.1       5.0         12.1
2. Wildlife & Forest Grazing            0.6       0.5         1.1      0.3       0.5          0.8
3. Commercial Forestry                  5.1       29.9       35.0      14.7      22.5        37.2
Development
4. Contingencies                        7.6       3.8        11.4
TOTAL                                 25.9       38.2       64.1     22.1      28.0         50.1
1I = Including contingencies.



- 22 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
ITEM                                Local  Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign         Total
costs    costs              costs      costs
IBRD                                 3.3      11.2      14.5      5.4        91          14.5
Co-financing institutions - DANIDA   2.6      6.8       9.4       1.7       4.3          6.0
- BADEA       -        9.4       9.4       -         4.8         4.8 'I
- CIDA       0.2       0.8       1.0      0.3        1.2         1.5
Domestic contribution   - FC         7.8      7.2       1.5.0     9.3       8.6         17.9
- GOZ        5.0       2.8       7.8      5.4         -          5.4
- Target GPs   7.0      -        7.0
TOTAL                              25.9      38.2      64.1     22.1       28.0        50.1
'I  = Loan extended till the year 2000
Table 9A: Economic Costs of Return (%)
SAR Estimate                 ICR Estimate
Whole Project                     30                          N/A-
Rural Afforestation                  1 9                         N/A
The underlying assumptions and ERR calculation details are set out in Appendix 3,
Table 4.
The IRR for the whole project cannot be calcalated because of lack of cost and benefit data for the
ural afforastation and forest grazing activities.



- 23 -
Table 9B: Other Benefits
The project had substantial social-economic benefits - Government constructed a 12
kn tarred road to the new Chimanimani Sawmill. This opened up the area and
greatly improved accessibility for rural commerce and stimulated agricultural
production in the area. Additionally, about 1000 jobs directly or indirectly associated
with the new mill were created.



-24 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
LOAN                 COVENANT  PRESEN
AGREEMENT  SECTION         TYPE          T                                        DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                                                   COMMENTS
STATUS
4.01 (a) i               I            C         Maintaini or cause to be nuintainied in accordance with sound accounting practices, records aund accounts  I conilfliance
retlecting suc h expenditure.
4.01 (a) ii              1, 5         C         Ensure that all records (contracts, orders, inlvoices, bills, receipts aud ofiler docunicuits) evidentcing suci  IhI cimlianice
expenditures are retainied, witil at lcast one yuwar ultr (lite Duik has received the audit report ibr the lY in whiiih
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made.
4.01 (a) iii             1, 5         C         Enable the Bank's represeatatives to examine such records.                                        1  compliance
4.01 (b) i               I            C         The Borrower shall: have the records and accounts referred to in para. (a) (i) Luad those for Special Accouwit for  ln compliance
each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
4.01 (b) ii              I            C         Furnish Bank as soon as possible and not later thaii 6 months after the end of each sucb year the report ol'such    In compliance
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as Bank shall have reasonably requested, including
separate opinion by said auditors as to whe ther SOE subnitted dusinig such FY, along with procedures and
internal controls involved in preparation can be relied upon to support related withdrawals
4.01 (b) iin             I            C         Furnish to the Bank such other infonmialioin concemning said records aid accounts and the audi thiereof as the  In compliance
Bank sbad frc m tirrte reasonably request.
4.02                     S            NC        The Borwer shall, by not later than October 1, 1990, take all necessary action to convert the outstanding debt   Not Complied with. Compliance
owed by FC to the Borrower into equity.                                                            deadline extended to....
Conversion of FC debt to equity
was delayed pending approval
and implementation of'
restructuring including chanige in
legal status ol'fC from a
parastatal to a wholly owned
government company. Now
expected to happeni by December
1999 and conversion ol'debt to
equity will be ef17ected
innuediately thereaftler.



-25 -
LOAN                 COVENANT  PRESEN
AGREEMENT  SECTION         TYPE         T                                        DESCRIP7ION OF COVENANT                                       {         COMMENTS
STATUS
4.03                    3            CP        Without any linmitation or restriction upon any ol'its obligations under the l omi Agrecenwit, the Borrower shall   Partial compliance
continue to provide to FC all the funds, racilities and other resources required by FC to carry out services to the
public on behalf ofthe Borower and the Borrower shall assume any and all liabilities arising out of the carrying
out of such services.
4.02                    9            C         FC shall undertake a review each year the stumpage rates it charges for ditTeriwt species ol'trees and shall adjust In compliance
such rates to ensure that such rates cover the replacement costs Ibr such species.
4.03 (a)                9            C         Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FC shall: carry out every 3 years a revaluation of its assets and  In compliance
liabilities, to such extent as shall be necessary to retilect adequately, at the time of suchi revaluation, the curneiit
value thereof, in accordance with a sound and consistently applied practice, the first such revaluation to be
completed by June 30, 1991.
4.03 (b)                9            C         Incorporate and utilize the results of such revaluation in its annual deterniniation of tinanicial perforimance  ln comnpliance
Sch. I - 3 (b)          5, 9         C         Payments made for expenditures under category (2) of the table in par. 1 above, uniless and until FC has  II compliance
procured and taken delivery of the sawmill equipment (saws, dry mill and storage, mobile equipment, product
transport and product depot) to be financed under the B3ADEA Loaii Agreement.
PROJ.                   9            C         Not later than December 31 each year, FC shall prepare and turnish to the Banik fbr its review and commucits, a  hi compliance
AGREBMNT -                                     work plan covering the period of 12 months commencing on fbilowing July 1I
2.06 09
2.07                    10           C         Without any limitation/restriction upon its obligation wuider Sec. 2.01 oflthis Agreemenit, FC shall prepare and   In compliance
10                                            fiunish Bank and Borrower, no later thani 6/30/94, detailed assessnent of implementation of Project on the basis
of Terms of Reference satistractory to Bank. Atler review by FC, Borrower, Bank and FC shall implemenit suci
changes as needed to ensure achievement of obj. of Proj. asset tbrth in introductory pard of Sch. 2 ol'PA.
3.04                    2, 9,10      C         FC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, by not later than 12/31/90, a research program covering its 1991, 1992  icompliaice
and 1993 ftancial years. Following review and comments by the Bank, FC shall adopt and implement a research
program satislt'atory to the Bank.
Covenant Type:
1. Accounts/audit                                            6. Environmnental covenants   I1. Sectoral or cross sectornl budgetary or other resource allocation
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries  7. Involuntary resettlement   12. Other
3. Flow and utilization of Project finds                     8. Indigenous people           Status: CD = Complied with; NC = Not C'omplied with,
4. Counterpart finding                                       9. Monitoring, review & reporting     CP = Comnplied with partially
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency  10. Implementation



- 26 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title             Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable
Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of
project cycle                  Planned                 Revised                Actual 1/
Weeks        US$         Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$
Preparation to                     N/A              -       N/A          81.7       92,200
appraisal
N/A              -       N/A          20         50,200
Appraisal
N/A              -       N/A          13.4       32,800
Negotiations through
Board approval
NA               -       NA           149       409,300
Supervision
13.2      37,200
Completion            I__   _  _    _ _  _ _ _  _ __  _ _     _ _  _ __              _  _ _
TOTAL                      -            -            -          -       277.5      621,700
1/ Include travel costs (Direct costs only)
NA=Not available-not recorded in the Bank's FACT system.



- 27 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of                   Number                    Specialized
project cycle     Month/        of       Days in       Stafflskills    Performance             Types of
_  year  persons      field       Represented         rating              Problems
Preparation     I
2
Appraisal             02/89         8
Supervision           11/90         2           10       A                      S                     L
06/91         2           7        A                      S                     L
2
12/91         1           15       F, P                   S'                    D
07/92         3           12       F, P                   S                    M, T
4
10/93         3           10       F, P, R                S                     M
04/94         1           8        F                      S                     T
6
09/94         1           5        F                      S                     P
7
06/95         2           10       F, C                   S                    P, D
8
11/95         5           15       R, F, C, P, D          S                     P
9
10    05196          3           11       R, F                   S
12/96         5           12       F, F, C, M             S                     T
11
06/97         3           21       R,F,N                  S                     T
12
10/97         2           16       R, F                   S                     T
05/98         3           16       R, F, C                S                     T
14
Implementation        08/98         3           15       F, A
Completion
KEY
a)   Specialisation:       A=Finance; C=Privatisation; D=Disbursement; F=Forestryincluding
Sawmilling; M=Marketing; N=Natural Resources; P=Procurement;
R=Rural Development
b)   Performance Rating- S=Satisfactory
c)       Types of Problems: D=Disbursements; L=Legal/Loan effectiveness; M=Management;
P=Procurement; T=TechmicaL



-28 -
ZIMBABWE
FORESTRY RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (Loan No. 3179-ZW)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION ..............................................................                                  29
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................................................                            29
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ...............................................................  30
FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...........................................................   30
PROJECT COSTS AND PHASING ..............................................................   33
BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...................................                  ...........................  34
PROJECT SUSTAJNABILrrY ..............................................................   35
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...............................................................   36
FUTURE OPERATIONS ..............................................................   37
NEXT STEPS ................................................................  37
TABLE
1.    Rural Afforestation Targets and Achievements
ATTACHMENT
1.    List of People Met by the Mission



- 29 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FORESTRY RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
(Loan No. 3179-ZW)
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    A  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program  (CP) mission composed of
F. Bitanihirwe (Investment Officer, Mission Leader), P. Ryan (Rural Forestry
Specialist), and J. Easton (Industrial Forestry Specialist) worked in Zimbabwe 17
August to 4 September 1998 to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
for the above project. The mission worked closely with Mr C. Chidawanyika, WB
Task Manager in charge of the project and met officials of the Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA) and the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) which co-financed the project. Meetings were held with the Ag.
General Manager of the Forestry Commission (FC) and his staff. Field visits were
made to Mutoko, Mutare, Masvingo, Bikita, Gokwe, and Zvimba districts to look at
the rural forestry operations financed by the project and hold discussions with
beneficiaries; visits were made to Mutare and Chimanimani to look at the saw milling
operations which were constructed or rehabilitated by the project.
2.    The mission wishes to express its appreciation to the FC for the hospitality,
excellent organization of field visits and efforts made to provide the information
needed by the mission.
Project Objectives
3.    The main objectives of the Forestry Resources Management and Development
Project (FRMDP) were to (i) conserve forests and the environment as well as increase
the production of wood for fuel and construction purposes; (ii) improve forest grazing
and wildlife managernent; and (iii) improve the productivity and quality of the wood
processing industry. These objectives were appropriate and realistic given the
constraints that, at the time, faced the forestry subsector.
4.    In order to achieve the above objectives, the project planned to (i) promote
tree planting and woodland management in the Communal Areas (CAs) of exotic as



-30 -
well as indigenous species; and (ii) upgrade the logging, extraction, saw milling and
manufacturing facilities and operations.
5.    Several lessons learnt from the IDA-funded Rural Afforestation Project (Cr.
1368-ZIM) (1983-1989) were applied to the Rural Afforestation Component. These
included the rejection of the premise that perceived or actual rural wood fuel deficits
would encourage the growing of trees for fuel; the realisation that centralised
nurseries were expensive to operate and that decentralised village, farmer or school
nurseries provided both greater sustainability and the opportunity for farm family
revenue earning. However, the objectives as well as activities and expected outputs
for the rural forestry operations could have been more specific on the need to
establish a long-term capability to foster and support wood production and non-wood
forestry-based production, the conservation and sustained yield management of
forests, and the amelioration of environmental damage in CAs. Partially as a result of
this definition GOZ tended to regard the project activities, including the
establishment of the forestry extension service, as a project-related finite operation,
thus hindering their sustainability.
Implementation Experience and Results
General
6.    The project was generally satisfactorily implemented and met the desired
objectives.
Factors Affecting Project Implementation
7.    Rural Forestry Development activities were affected by the following factors:
Lack of sufficient forestry extension staff in the districts and the high
turnover of such staff. This seriously curtailed project operations.
Although the Forestry Extension Service of the FC adopted flexible and
innovative approaches to overcome this impediment such as developing
linkages with other agencies such as NGOs and encouraging school
outreach programmes and farm forestry promoters, the lack of sufficient
technical base remained a major constraint.
Lack of credit facilities. This hampered the development of farm family
and community-based forestry production activities. To some extent, the
project's Support Fund compensated for the lack of credit but as these
were free handouts, it is not sustainable.
Droughts. The country experienced two serious droughts during project
implementation. These reduced seedling production and the survival rate
of trees previously planted, particularly in the period 1991 - 93.



- 31 -
Lack of suitable and affordable termite control mechanisms. This was an
on-going problem in many areas causing considerable mortality of young
trees.
Inadequate GOZ recurrent budget. The government did not meet its
fmancial commitment for the recurrent costs of the project. The funds
were inadequate and were usually remitted late thus forcing the project to
curtail or re-arrange its operations.
Commercial potential for trees. Recognition by extension staff and
farmers of the commercial potential for poles and posts and the
promotion of linkages with markets for these as an incentive helped
foster tree growing as an income generating activity.
8.    The Wildlife and Forest Grazing Management activities were affected by the
lack of counterpart funds from GOZ. Therefore, activities of the component did not
start till mid-1996.
9.    Commercial forestry operations were affected by the following factors.
Poor Performance by Consultants. The performance of the consultants
selected to update the feasibility study and carry out the detailed technical
designs for the Chimanimani saw mill was not up to standard. They took
annual leave as and when they desired irrespective of what work was in
progress; did not consistently document and clear with FC the design
details and specification changes agreed between the consultants and the
suppliers; failed to provide operating and maintenance planning systems
for the mill; and did not provide the report on the construction phase
activities as specified in the contract. The consultant's contract was
subsequently terminated by FC in April 1997. However, their failings
resulted in inordinate delays to start and complete the construction of the
mill. In addition, a number of design and construction faults attributable to
both the consultants and some suppliers which came to light with the mill
start-up, have caused a delay in achieving anticipated production levels
and resulted in unforeseen additional capital investment.
Poor Project Management. Project management assistance was included in
the consultants' role because at appraisal it was recognized that FC did not
have the in-house expertise to handle a project of this magnitude.
However, the consultants failed to perform this function satisfactorily. The
FC project team had to therefore carry out much of the project
management and cost control tasks. The consultants did not prepare a site
management procedure document, as required prior to starting
construction, designating lines of authority on site until the FC, with Bank
assistance, issued their own document. This resulted in some quality
problems and delays in the early construction period.
Procurement Delays and Supplier Selection: Procurement was handled by
the FC project personnel. In general, the choice of supplier was based on



- 32 -
the lowest bidder rather than product quality. Also there were too many
suppliers, leading to incompatibility of equipment and subsequent
problems in sourcing spare parts. Now and then, procurement delays were
encountered due to delays in specifications and drawings from the
consultants; basic design changes requested by FC; GOZ subsequent
insistence that all tender documents be cleared by the President's Office;
protracted WB procedures with which the FC management team were not
familiar, and BADEA's slow response times which sometimes resulted in
procurement delays of up to 7 months.
Saw Mill Location. The Chimanimani saw mill was located in an area
which was difficult to access due to poor roads. GOZ experienced delays
in up-grading the road leading to the site. Therefore, during the heavy
rains access to the site by heavy vehicles was curtailed. Weather-related
problems delayed the project, in total, by about 8 months.
Project Results
10.   The project attained most of its objectives both in terms of rural development,
environmental amelioration, commercial operations and institutional development.
11.   Rural Forestry Development.  The project substantially achieved its
objectives. Covering 58 districts, the project has assisted with the sustainable
production of wood, non-wood forest products and horticultural products in
Communal Areas and, to some extent, in Resettlement Areas. This production,
together with private or community seedling production has helped to raise rural
incomes. Conservation and management of woodlands has built on traditional
systems, and, although it was slow to become a major extension activity, a sizable
area of woodlands being managed can now be attributed to the project. In addition to
directly attributable impacts on tree growing, woodland management and other
production or conservation achievements, a 1997 evaluation showed there has been
considerable indirect impact among families and communities not directly in touch
with the forestry extension network. The physical achievements of the project as
compared to appraisal estimates are set out on the Table 1.
12.   The project beneficiaries were mainly farm families are above the poorest
income strata as they received a greater proportion of extension inputs because they
are more accessible and likely to succeed. This situation was also partly due to the
priorities of the poorest families, which do not often include the growing of trees or
wood production, with land being a very limiting factor.
13.   The project effect on the amelioration of the environment in the communal
areas has been minimal to date, but a start has been made and, in any case, reversing
environmental degradation is a long-term process.
14.   Wildlife and Forest Grazing Management. Full implementation of the
component was not possible till 1996 because of a shortage of GOZ counterpart
funding. Satisfactory progress has been made on the component since then, with 10



- 33 -
Resource Management Comnnittees (RMCs) having been established, representing all
the communities surrounding the Mafungabusi State Forest. Resource management
and sharing activities have been underway for two years, including controlled thatch
and broom grass harvesting, bee keeping, mushroom collection and fire monitoring.
Incomes are accruing from the grass harvesting are accruing to the RMCs to finance
local development initiatives. Grazing is being undertaken under FC regulations,
though grazing plans have yet to be finalized. Following the review of the component
in 1996, the wildlife sub-component was dropped and the remainder sub-component
reduced in scope because of low priority, limited funds and the long time it would
take to develop appropriate and sustainable methodologies.
15.   Comunercial Forestry Development. The project constructed a modem saw
mill at Chimanimani which was commissioned in April 1997. The mill is producing a
superior product in terms of finish compared to other sawn timber in Zimbabwe. The
timber is kiln dried which has reduced in staining of the product. T,he ability to dress
and stress grade the product has improved suitability for timber export and enhanced
ability to enter higher value markets. The mill is currently producing only up to about
60% of its rated capacity because of downtime due to plant design faults, technical
breakdowns, operational staff unfamiliarity with the plant, and electricity supply
problems. This will improve with further training of staff and putting in place
adequate maintenance systems.
16.   The project is rehabilitating 3 smaller saw mills whose equipment is
antiquated. It is expected that when the rehabilitation works are complete, the quality
of their products will improve significantly.
17.   On a socio-economic side, the project has transformed a backyard place into a
vibrant growth point. About 200 jobs have been created at the mill, another 250 in the
logging operations and possibly another 500- 600 in downward operations, like in
transport business, associated with the project.
18.   Restructuring of FC. The project supported the restructuring process of the
FC through the provision of TA and reviewing of the proposals. The restructuring
proposals were approved by GOZ in February 1998 and plans to implement the finst
phase are underway. These involve the split of the FC into three independent
organizations: a commercial company to be called the Forestry Company of
Zimbabwe (FCZ) incorporated under the Companies Act which would take over the
assets and liabilities of the commercial activities of the FC; a commercial company,
fully owned by FC, to take over the operations of the Ngamo Safaris; and the
slimmed down FC to carry out regulatory and development functions for the forestry
sub-sector. There were, however, delays in fulfilling the Loan Agreement Covenant,
which stipulated the conversion of government debt to equity.
Project Costs and Phasing
19.   Total project costs are expected to be in the region of US$ 50 m compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$ 64 million. The cost variations are due to (i) the steady



- 34-
erosion of the value of the local currency unit throughout project implementation; (ii)
lack of information to estimate the cost elements financed by the target groups /
beneficiaries; and (iii) a cut back in the rural forestry component following a
DANIDA review in 1995.
20.   The project was financed by a mix of external loan and grant finance and local
contributions from the FC, GOZ and project beneficiaries. The rural forestry
component was financed by a DANIIDA grant; the forest grazing management
component by a CIDA grant; and the commercial forestry component by WB and
BADEA loans. The World Bank loan of US$ 14.5 m was fully disbursed. DANIDA
provided DKK 41.2 m (equivalent US$ 6.0 m) out of the original commitment of
DKK 62.4 m (equivalent US$ 9.4 in); BADEA provided US$ 4.8 m out of the
original loan of US$ 9.4 m (the loan has been extended for another 2 years); CIDA
provided US$ 1.5 m (original commitment US$ 1.0 m; the closing date for the
component is now end year 2001); the FC provided the equivalent of nearly US$ 18.0
m compared to the original commitment of US$ 15.0 m; and GOZ provided US$ 5.4
m compared to the original commitment of US$ 7.8 m.
Bank and Borrower Performance
The Bank
21.   WB performance was generally satisfactory throughout the life of the project.
Both the concept and design of the project were appropriate and sound as well as in
agreement with the Government's and WB's strategy for the forestry sub-sector. Loan
disbursements were made on time. However, the borrower complained about the
protracted procurement procedures of the WB. The project was actively supervised
and 14 supervision missions reviewed the project. There was however little
synchronization between these missions and those sent by DANIDA and to review
the components they financed with the result that those components appeared to be
implemented as a separate projects.



- 35 -
The Borrower
22.    GOZ met all covenants under the WB loan except one requiring the
conversion of government debt into equity. It also failed to meet all its budgetary
obligations to finance recurrent costs for the rural forestry and forest grazing
management components. In the procurement operations, it introduced another layer
in the procurement chain, which delayed the procurement processes.
23.    The FC showed continuos commitment to the project throughout. It was
aggressive in pursuing ways and means of developing an effective extension
organization and systems and achieving the project's objectives; the initiatives shown
by them have greatly contributed to the positive outcome of the project. Their efforts
in implementing the rural forestry development and forest grazing management
activities were frequently frustrated by lack of adequate budgetary support from GOZ
and limited extension staff resources. The SAR intention of each 4istrict having one
extension officer, plus an additional 10 district extension officers, did not materialize.
24.   On the commercial forestry side, the FC project coordination team performed
well although they should have monitored the performance of the consultants more
closely. Poor supervision of the consultants resulted in delays in starting and
completing the construction of the saw mill as well as defective design and
construction of some parts of the mill. The confidence and capability of the team
developed significantly during the project.
Project Sustainability
25.   Although DANIDA has agreed for the next three years to assist with financing
field operations in rural forestry development, the sustainability of this component is
unlikely because of uncertainties about the level of continued counterpart funding
from GOZ and the likelihood that the already limited number of extension staff
available may be further reduced. The same applies to the sustainability of the forest
grazing management activities although the component does not close till the year
2001. FC is trying to address these issues by devolving some activities to the hands of
the communities as well as networking with other organizations. While these will
help, the organization will also need to institutionalize the forestry extension service
into the mainstream FC and make re-doubled efforts at cost recovery so as to meet
part of its recurrent budget. On the other hand, the sustainability of the commercial
forestry activities is likely because the operations will soon be commercialized and,
when the current operational bottlenecks regarding the running of the mill and staff
training are sorted out and the timber marketing situation improves, the enterprise
should be viable in the medium and long run. The FC has the ability to operate the
new and rehabilitated mills and logging operations effectively. FC has recently
completed a supply and demand forecast for coniferous saw logs from their existing
resource; they indicate adequate supplies for the foreseeable future.



- 36 -
Key Lessons Learned
Rural Forestry Development and Grazing Management
26.    Several lessons have been derived:
The realisation of the commercial value of tree products is an important
incentive for tree production by farmers especially when extension staff
provide the links with markets, including market price and demand
information.
The methodologies for forestry extension messages to be disseminated
through collaboration with other extension agencies, NGOs and the use of
para-extensionists.
On-farm credit is essential if extension is to have its full impact.
Involvement of farmers in the extension planning and project design provides
for much greater sustainable impact from extension inputs.
Decentralised private or community nurseries can be successful provided
adequate training and technical backup is provided and good seed genetics
are maintained.
Commercial Forestry Development
27.    Most lessons relate to procurement of goods and services.
When undertaking a complex construction operation such as the
Chimanimani minimize management and supervision demands on the part of
the recipient institution while at the same time placing the burden of start-up
and design problems on the equipment supplier.
The concept of a large number of equipment suppliers, although an
acceptable practice in the saw mill industry in industrialized countries,
consideration should be given to turn-key packages so as, places a
cumbersome burden on the procurement and stocking of spares. It also
results in a large number of operating and maintenance manuals of varying
quality. For developing countries, greater consideration should be given to
using a limited number of equipment suppliers and the supply of large
integrated packages.
When negotiating lengthy contracts such as this with the main consultants,
the contract should be negotiated in the currency of the loan so as to avoid
foreign exchange risks.
The design of auxiliary equipment such as conveying equipment must be
checked to ensure that they adequately meet the local species and operating
conditions.



- 37-
Procurement of equipment and machinery should not solely be based on
price; quality and suitability for local conditions should also be taken into
consideration.
During negotiations with contractors, it should be ensured that their working
methods are in accord with the proposed schedule and that suitable erection
equipment will be available. The bid documents should include a description
of the proposed approach to the project and erection methods and equipment
to be used and included in the contract.
Future Operations
28.    Under the Afforestation Component of the Agricultural Sector Support
Project, DANIDA will, over the next three years, finance the field operations for rural
forestry development while CIDA will finance the forest grazing management
activities till the year 2001. The medium term continuity of these operations is
therefore fairly secure except for the uncertainties regarding staffing levels and the
availability of counterpart funds from GOZ.
29.    A medium term plan has been drawn up for the commercial forestry
operations following their commercialization and eventual privatization. This
envisages floating the company on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange about two years
down the line, better synchronization of production with market conditions, a close
watch on costs, and more efficient collection of debts (accounts receivable).
30.    The FC has expressed interest in donor assistance for staff training,
particularly saw mill personnel, and for strengthening and institutionalizing the
forestry extension system so that it becomes part of the mainstream FC.
Next Steps
31.    The mission will prepare a draft ICR to be forwarded to the WB by the
middle of September 1998. GOZ, through FC has promised to have its own
observations on the project ready by the middle of October 1998. The WB will
submit the ICR to the Government by the end of October for comments. These would
be forwarded to the WB by the end of November 1998. The final (gray cover) version
of the report is scheduled to be presented to the WB Board in December 1998.



- 38 -
TABLE 1
Rural Afforestation Targets and Achievements
[OutputlBenefit       SARTarge   Achievement/Estimate        Remarks
Seedlings Produced    51.5       51.98 million          Virtually all
million                            production from
Trees Planted        46.435million+:fanmers' nurseries
Trees Planted        46.4        35 million +           Target allows for
million                            10% culls.
Seedlings planted
loltside Cas and as
few-tree-plantings
not counted.
Pilot Pole Treatment   7         2                      Demand for
Plants                                                 treatment plants
I__________________ _diminished
Potential Wood       45,000      150,000 r3iyr.         Mainly poles and
Production          I             5       /_   _                   anposts
Potential Fruit     I N/A      J 200 million fruits/yr.  Mangos, avocados,
Production                                              papaws, citrus
Number of Woodland  7            540                    Majority under
Management Projects                                     schools or
l_________________ _________I                          j individuals
Area of Woodland     N/A         73,000 ha              72,500 under
Mngt                                                    communities or rural
district councils
Non-wood Forest      N/A         Honey, mushrooms,      Associated mainly
Products                         medicines, fodder.     with woodland
management, but
honey production
also in woodlots.
In-service Short     N/A         82                     860 participants
Courses
External Short Courses N/A       20                     35 participants
Long Term Training    N/A        30 participants        Both in Zimbabwe
I                          .              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and overseas
Farmer & Exten Aid   18,100      20,900 participants    Includes training for
AGRITEX, NGOs
and farners.
Resource Centre      .13 videos, 2 slide series, 3  1 video and 4
Productions                      handbooks, 4 leaflets.    leaflets translated



-39-
into Shona and
Ndebele.
:-   74                Target not specified
Motor Vehicles                                           in SAR
22                     Target not specified
Motor Cycles                                             in SAR
40                     Target not specified
Bicycles                                                 in SAR
IS                     Target not specified
Computers (with                                          in SAR
printers)                _          _



-40 -
ATTACHMENT 1
List of People Met by the Mission
1.    P. Kariwo               Ag. General Manager, Forestry Commission
2.    D. Sithole               Coordinator, Commercial Activities, FC
3.    L. Gondo                 Coordinator, Rural Forestry Activities, FC
4.    A. Ncube                 Corporate Services Manager, FC
5.    L. Baker                 Manager, Specialist Services, FC
6.    C. Phiri                 Project Coordinator, FC
7.    H. Chihwayi              Financial Controller, FC - Commercial
8.    W. Zinyama               Project Coordinator - Commercial
9.    D. Chibata               Chinanimani Sawmill Manager
10.   E. Zvizwai               Forestry  Manager,  Southern  Region
Commercial
11.   0. Nyadundu              FC/GTZ Project Coordinator
12.   A. Skydt                 Project Officer, DANIDA



-41 -
ZIMBABWE
FORESTRY RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (Loan No. 3179-ZW)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APPENDIX B
GOVERNMENT'S CONTRIBUTION



P.2
.           H~~~~~~~~~~~A
.,~- ,..._                 ;"*. .  ,
< '.W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
i'.S'~~~~~~~~~'
, ;X' 2^ )_ __-_  "  'f -.. .  ,i-  -
best available copy:Illigible Original (MSI/PFM, 1999-04-13)



1.0   AhimmIeL of objectve
The Forest Resources Management and Development Project generally achieved its
objectives as follows:.
(a)   Conseving forsts and the environment as well as increasing the production of
wood for fuel and constuction purposes in promoting tree planting and woodland
management in the Communal Areas. The programme largely focused on
seedling production and tree plantig. Initl plans were for the production of tree
seedlings in central nurseries. However, the decentralisation of seedling
producton resulted in an case in the number of farmer and school nurseries
with an inevitable increae in, the number of seedlings prduced. While seedling
production has yielded impressive results, not all seedling produced wer planted
in the communal and resetement areas. A lot of the seedlings were sold to
commerial ffarmers as seedling production became a viable enterprise in its own
right. In general, the pro3ect saw an incroase in tree planting in all land tenure
categories, especialy in high ranfIll areas. Vegetation resources inventories
indicate a   eral increase in the area under Eucalyptus plantations in the
communal areas, despite the general decline in the extnt of naturl woodlands.
Furthermore, woody biomass production was not commensurate hith the tree
planting efforts because of the low survival rates of the tsees planted. The
affrestation effort did not reduce pressure on the natural woodlands as
communities contiu to dmaw multiple goods and sevices from these woodlands.
The non use of the gum as a fel wood spees means that wood is sill obtained
fom the natural woodlands. Reduction of environmental damage to forest,
agricultual and gazing lands was addressed thrugh various progmmmes which
included woodland management, agroforey and afforestion. On the whole,
the project succsahly fulfilled its broad objecdves relating to the eh ent
of the quaity of life of the communities in the communal and resettemnt areas.
Ob)   Improving forest grazg and wildlife management. A start on the forest gazig
has been made through formation of resouce management comrnmittes.
development of forest resources in communal areu adjace  to Mafungabusi
Forest srve and constuction of a resource management cent. expected to be
completed in early 1999. The aspect of wild life mangemn  did not take off
E



because the poor development of the objective did not addrem the needs of the
locals in and around the gazetted forest aes.
(c)   The objective of improving productivity of the Forestry Commission's wood
processing industries by upgrading the loggng, processing, sawmiiing and
manufacturing facilities and operations was largely achieved.
2   PERa       MQE __  _SA   HOLD_=
2.1   The WorldBank
2.1.1  Project Conception
At project appraisal, the project document was written as if all fuding was
coming in from one source. Although it assisted in identifying potetial donors,
the World Bank was not pa2t of tho bilateral agreements entered into between the
Government of Zimbabwe and the bilateral donors. The impact of this was
reduced funding and delayed implementation of the forest grzing and wildlife
management components. The forest grazing components will now close in the
year 2001. The wildlife component which was not appropriately conceptualised
to cater for the interests of the locals was abandoned when the Govenment of
Zimbabwe intpetated counter part finding to read Zimbabwe S5.1 million
instead of Canadian S5.1 million.
The assumption tha the Government of Zimbabwe was to provide USS 7.0
million as its contribution could have been corct at the time of appraisal.
However, this did not take place because of other pressing needs on the fiscus.
The Poresty Commission ended up incuing unplanned ependitmre resuing in
an unfavourable fnsmcial position for the organiation that stil perst today.
The World Bank should be realistic in determining the ability of recipiet
governments to provide counterpat funding. In thei desperation to get donor
suppot, recipient gvemt fnd thM3selves in siaions wbee they commit
themselves only to discover they cannot meet the oblitions demanded frm
them
3



2.1.2  Project Supervision
While supervision of the component to assist in the improvement in the
productivity of wood proessing industres by upgrading the loging exaction,
sawmilling and  ufactuing facilities and operations, which the World Bank
was co-financing was timely and appropriate, the banks' supevision and
paricipation by the World Bank in the other components was disjointed. There
was no co-ordination with the other co-financiers in the supervision and fiacing
processes which led to questioning of its input in these components.
For the component where they gave timely and appropriate supervson, the
following observations were made in the World Bank's performance:-
wo*  lThe Bank's performance was a hindrance during the initial stages of the
project All Bank decisions were being made from Washington and this
reslted in many project delas. There was significant improvement when
the Bank delegated some of its decisions to their local office.
(a)   The delay betwn Phase I (Feasibility Study) and Phase 2 (Detail
Design) of the project could be attibutable to the Bank's
processes.
(b)   The Bank refused to take advantage of the rigorous checldng
mechanism in the Zimbabwe Govermnent Tender Board to
minimise bureaucraey and expedite business. The Bank could
have considered relaxing some of their requirements in view of
the Govemment's rigorous procedures.
(c)   During procurement, where competiive bidding *as involved, the
price rather than the-technical superiority of equipment became
the issue It was very difficult to bu higher priced equipment for
technical or quality reasons where therm was another cheae
offer. It can be argued that many of the bad purchases were due
to poor specificaions by the Forestry Commiion and
management consultn. The Bank hen only looked at the price
and ignored other important apects such as quality, durilit and
technical back up, since the specifications opened the bidding
4



process to a wide range of equipment that could be purchased.
(d)   The Bank's supervsion mission played a major role in helping
project management resolve its problems with the relevant
authorities. This is greatly appreciated and ackmowledged.
However, closer supervision should have been carfied out at the
beginning of the project as manment had no experience in
project implementation of this nature. This is where it mattered
most!!
2.2    UDEA
(a)   BADEA linked the loan to its other loas to the Govenment of
Zimbabwe and this resulted in delayed disbursement of fuda for the
project
(b)   Mamy suppliers werc not familia with BADEA procurement procedures.
Several mont were lost with the Forestry Commission negotiating with
such suppliers to modify their bank guaatees to be in line with BADEA
requirements. Some suppliers had to wait a long as eight (8) months for
payment. The suppliers in turn withheld their foundation details and the
civil conactor therefore also delayed by the same period of eight months.
(c)   Communicaton wnth BADEA was quite a problem. At project
commencement, BADEA simply did not respond to any Foresty
Commission written communication. The Forstty Commission had to
resort to sandig a representaive to BADEA headquarters m Khartoum
in order to get approval of tender evaluato by BADEA.
(d)   Processing of disbursements often took more tan eight weeks.
(e)   BADEA pcmlnt procedures are too rigid - its a take it or leave it
situatio.
(f)   However, once the prou    procedureo had been clearly understood
by all and followed, the proces was much quicker.
9 *d



2.3  DAN
DAN]DA showed flexdbility in the supervision and implcmtation of the project
However, there was a reduction in the DANIDA fundin guter the 1995 project
review which revealed under expenditmre.
2.4   CI12A
CIDA also showed some flexibility when they released some fmnds they had
reserved to cater for foregn purchases when the project was conceptualised
ding the time the Zimbabwe Government had foreign currency restrictions. The
funds were then used to cover short fals in some activities that had been
originally under budgeted.
The decision to rely on counter part funding from Votes of Credit given to the
Government of Zimbabwe proved to be costly to the project as evidenced by the
reduced funding made available to the project by the Goverent
2.5  THEWM                 O         IW
The Government of Zimbabwe could not meet its funding obligations from its
fiscus. The additional funding the Forestry Commission had to provide for its
commercial opations resulted in the orgaruisatlon dirupting its intenal
iancing mechansm resuting in a bad financial position-for the orgsaiatsion.
The lack of suervion capacity in the Forestry Commission for the commercial
component of its activities was evident durng the implemenion process. Te
purchase of poor quality equipment forced on the Forestry Codmiiusion can be
attribed to lack of expeaience in writng speciications by Fostry Commission
staff. The high staff tum  over and poor delegtion to fgeld level proved costly as
the field staffcould not quickly com t grips to dcisionmaking with regrds to
specificadon and aproprite supavision of the m a  t consultants when
the saeor staff at Head Quarts lef.
6
V 'd



2.6 MAAEMMQ
The managemt consultancy who were to take the lead role in the
ismpl~en.tation of the Chinianini Sawmill Project left a lot be desired in the
execution of their mandate. This resulted in the Forestry Co on not
benefiting from their experience. The consultant wrote poor specifications for
equipment eulting in adjudications favouring the purchas of poor quality
equipment which was quoted cheaply. The project ended up being vay
expensive as compard to the onal budget Equipment degms wer very poor
reulting in modificaon  aftr the suppliers had lef the site.  Poor
documentation for desig  chages and opeational manuals stll re=ain a
headache for contiud opeation. Sustaned maintenance of the equipment was
not built in during the constucton, resulting in major stppags when the mill
was commissioned.
2.7   CONlCTORS
T'he work of the cators wa negadvely effected by base soil problems durig.
compation. fequent breakdowns and the delay in linldag the dte to the main
road.  The contctor relied on manual methods resulting i delays m the
iplementation process.
3. ~YLMILEA&~
3.1   Wbhn implemendng projects that are co-financod, all resources should be puled
togete ito a pool fund to ensur smnooth co-ordinton of the projes
fincing and activities.
3.2   Coveats to be signed must be throughly inveigatd to cnsr they can be
achieved beore they are sed for. Each              to be treated a a
component fr easm of supevson.
3.3   Staff capaties need to be in place not only at Head Offices, but at the project
Icvel. Detalision to project levol in es ial fbr successf monitorng and
implementaton of projects
7.
aLe .c      .c



X  s]  Si 1  ~~~10 XX
e~ a                                 
~e  I!i1   P1  jI       *1
I  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-50-
ZIMBABWE
FORESTRY RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (Loan No. 3179-ZIM)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APPENDIX C
MISCELLANEOUS TABLES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TABLES
1.   The Zimbabwe Forestry Commission - Balance Sheets for the Period
1990-97
2.   The Zimbabwe Forestry Commission - Cashflow Statements for the
Pexiod
1990-97
3.   The Zimbabwe Forestry Commission - Income Statements for the Period
1990-97
4.   Commercial Forestry Component - Economic Analysis - Economic Rate
of
Return



-51 -
TABLE 1. THE ZIMBABWE FORESTRY COMMISSION - BALANCE SHEETS FOR THE PERIOD 1990 - 97
1997                 1996                  1995                  1994                1993                1992                1991               1990
FUNDS EMPLOYED
GOVERNMENT OF ZIMBABWE LOANS                                238,595,345           177,498,550           140,707.377           106,110o925         93,836,839          67,081,440         5s,245,009           50,339.612
INTERESTACCRUED ON LOAN                                     117,011,154            90,461,462            72,634,661           59,768,080          49.375,671          40,730,244          34,383,200          29,075,552
GRANTS FROM GOVERNMENT                                                          -                     .                                -                   -           4.000.000                   -
GRANTS FROM OTHER SOURCES                                       311,628              311,628               311,628               311,628             311,628             311.628             311,628             311.628
VEHICLE AND EtaUPMENT SINKING FUNDS                          49,897,958            45,904,499            41,354,345            31.787,620         27.127,385          23.399.684          15,891,086          10,371,888
FOREST RESERVE FUND                                          86,328.820            79,140,595            70,950,318           47,990,179          36,805,616          27,859,134          16,714,625           8,875,836
VALUATION RESERVE                                           150,933,055           156.688,567           156,688,567            52,994.776         52,994,776          54,036,305           2,739,797           2.739,797
643,077,960          550,005,301           482,646,896           298,963,208         260,451,915         217,418,438         126,285,345         101,514.313
RETAINED PROFITS                                             31,604,846            26,812,696            21,352,512            15,612,478         12,816.337          10,579,716           7.793,589           5,783,892
674,882,808           576,817,997          503,999,408           314,575.686         273,268,252         227,998,151         134,078,934         107.298,205
PLANTATIONS                                                 304,503,821           294,986,108           267,958,334           147,496,711        132,066,271         122,197,874          60.773,707          52,265.954
FIXED ASSETS                                                339,729,510           273,901.055           188,38.1 13           100,566,676         79,389.249          52,95,818          31,584,822          19,310.431
INVESTMENTS                                                     375,000               375,000              375,000              2,376,000          2,586.090           1,501,571             375,002             375,002
LONG TERM DEBTORS                                                     -                    -                31,838                34,038              35,509              83,557             111,632            419,396



- 52 -
644,608.331         559,262,163          456.753,2a5         250,471,925        214,077,t19        176,378,820        92,845,163         72,370,783
CURREINT ASSETS
Stock                                                    36,239,311           29,369,845           25,268,275          26,214,806         23,795,696         19.453,351         12,029,224         8,324,311
Debtors                                                  44,483,955           42,057,264          40,147,256           25,118,485         18,414,999         10,999.721         7,065,089          9,458,050
Tempomry advances                                        32,812,019           31,631,586           4,598,260            8,317,826          1.749,029         5,936,001        i 1,372,339           231,620
Short tarn inveosments                                    2,137,142           11,263.377           13,779,988          24,304,687         33,416,552        29,293,524         29,160,059         24,200,610
Bank and cash balances                                      991,178            2,340.930             (14,726)           7,935,310          3,208,832          2,163,400         2,749,207          2.344,606
116,83.605          116,663,022          83,779,053           91,891.114         80,585,108        67,845,997         5Z,375.918         44,559,197
CURRENT UABILITIES
Temrpoary advances                                               -                    -                                        -                  -                           -                     938,564
Shott tern loans                                         21,609,716           15,307,641                                                                             -                 -
Credilon                                                  21,303,828          16,850,379           13,683,308          11,175,094          7,716,086         4,902,587          2,845,299          2,529,825
Leave pay provison                                         2,293,575           1,815,209            1,497,110             999,781           861,552            744,363            503,269            379,494
GovernmenrdZof Zohabwe                                    31,604,846          26,812,696           21,352,612          15,612,478         12,816,337         10,579,716         7,793,689          5,783,892
Bank ovedraft                                             9,777.165           38,321,263                   -                   -                  -                  -
86,589,130          99,107,188           36,632,930          27,787,353         21,393,975         16.226.666         11,142,147         9,631,775
NETCURRENTASSETS                                          30,074,475          17,555,834           47,246,123          64,103,761         59,191,133         51,619,331        41,233,771         34,927,422
874,882,808         578.817,997          603.999,408         314,575,886        273,268,252        227,998,151       134,078,934        107,298,205
Schedule 2



- 53 -
TABLE 2. THE ZIMBABWE FORESTRY COMMISSION - CASHFLOW STATEMENTS FOR THE PERIOD 1990-97
1997                1996                 1995                 1994               1993               1992               1991               1990
REVENUE
Sale of limber                                          155,646,604          127,316,450          176,961,382           65.135,608         38,684,002         35,754,667         28,307,773         17,374,691
Roof trusses                                              9,2256,512           3,928,867            3,357,247            2.176,878          1,753,035                           -                           -
Manufactured Products                                    20,648,156           21,941,917           11,294,618           10,763,189          6,360,336         12,081,185         10,173,855          6,137,237
Doors                                                     6,475,213            4,597,886            8,233,465            2,117,165                 -                  -                  -
Safaris                                                          -                    -            10,756,496            7,943,696          5,465,407          4,229,072          1,916,472          1,828,299
Other revenue                                             9,511,062           13,371,657            4,590,411            3,490,874          5,595,308          3,331,285          1,770,592           901,459
201,606,447         171,166,777          215,193,619           91,627,410         57,858,088         55,396,209         42.168,692         26,241,686
OPERATING PROFIT                                         16,973,834           18,200,615           38,266,898           18,640,939         14,910,804         18,574,182         13,397,981          4,691,410
After Charging:
Depreciation                                             11,946,671            4,847,152            4,038,149            2,720,098          1,674,560          1,295,574          1,322,166          1,406,982
Interesl                                                    199,174              195,799            1,620,189            1,587,072          1,887,106          1,317,796           698,760            792,109
Stumpage                                                 11,801,584            6.273,496            5,314,653            5,790,582          4,597,142          2,428,985          2,291,708          1,906,392
After crediting:
(Surplus)/Loss on disposal of fixed assets                 (29,113)             (49,642)           (1,518,165)           (193,203)            (8,000)            15,857              (770)            (25,210)
interest received                                        (1,145,862)          (1,163,771)          (5,116,905)          (7,274,600)        (7,757,532)        (1,792,201)         (527,040)          (827,048)



-54 -
MOVEMENTS ON RESERVES
OPERATING PROFIT FORTHE YEAR                            15,973,834           18,200,615          38,266,898           18,840,939        14,910.804         18,574,182        13,397.981          4,591,410
TAXATION                                                        -                    -
DEDUCT APPROPRIATIONS:
Sinldng Fund                                             3,993,459           4,550,154            9,566,725            4,660,235         3,727,701          4,643,546         3,349,495          1,161,003
Forest Reserve Fund                                      7,188,225            8,190,277          22,960,139           11,184,563         8.946,482         11,144,509         8,038,789          2,058,244
11,181,684          12,740,431          32,526,864           15,844,798         12,674,183        15,788,055         11,388,284         3,219,247
Retained Profits for the year                            4,792,150           5,460,184            5,740,034            2,796,141         2,236,621          2,786,127         2,009,697          1,372,163
Retained Cumulative Profits                             26,812,696           21,352,512          15,612,478           12.816,337        10,579,716          7,793,589         5,783,892          4,411,729
RETAINED PROFITS                                        31,604,846           26,812,696          21,352,512           15,612,478        12,816,337         10,579,716         7,793,589          5,783,892
Schedule 3



- 55 -
TABLE 3. THE ZIMBABWE FORESTRY COMMISSION - INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE PERIOD 1990-97
1997                 1996                 1995                 1994              1993                1992               1991               1990
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS
Promi for the year                                                     15,973,834           18,200,615           38,266,898           18,640,939         14,910,804         18,574,182         13,397,981          4.691,410
Adjusted for:
DOepreciaon                                                            11,946,671            4,847,152           4,038,149             2,720,098          1.674,560          1.295,574          1,322,166          1,406,982
Cost of timber felted                                                   6,046.072           12.290,521            5,314,653            5,790,582          4,597,142          2,428.985          2,291,708          1,906,392
(Surptus)Loss on disposal of fixed assets
& Investmients                                                          (29.113)              (49,642)           (1,518,165)           (193,203)            (8,000)            15,857              (770)            (25,210)
Operating cashflow before wortdng
capital changes                                                       33,937,464            35,288.646           46,101,535           26,958,416         21,174,506         22,314,698         17,011,085          7,879,574
Dectease/(Inrrease) In stock                                          (6,869,466)           (4,101,570)            946,531           (2,419.110)         (4,342,345)        (7,424,127)        (3,704,913)        (3.216,279)
Decrease/(lncrease) In Debtors                                        (2.426,671)          (1,910.028)          (15,028,771)         (6,703,486)         (7,415,278)        (3,934,632)         2,392,961         (4,878,835)
Decrease/(lncrease) In temporary advances                              (1.180.433)         (27,033,326)           3,719,566          (6,568.797) _        4,186,972        (4,563,662)         (2.079,283)         4.230,094
(Decrrase)lncrease In creditors and provisions                         4,931,815             3,485,170            3,005,543            3,597,237          2,930,688          2,298,392           439,239            698,144
NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATIONS                                        28,392,709            6,728,892           38,744,404           14,864,260         16,534,643          8,690,569         14,059,089          4,712.698
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Dacrease In long term debtors                                                  -               31,838                2,200                1,471             48,048             28,075            307,764            257,919
Plantation Developrnent expend9ure                                    (31,319.297)        (29.318,295)          (22,082,485)        (21,221,022)        (15,384,215)      (12,392,102)        (10,665,839)       (8,347,854)



- 56 -
Purchases of fixed assets                                          (78,384.588)         (90,416,247)        (109,428,125)        (24,121,108)      (28,590,844)       (22,530,075)       (13,734,618)        (6,451,984)
Purchases of investment                                                      -                                        -              211,090         (1,084,519)        (1,126,571)                           (375,000)
Proceeds from disposal of fixed assets
ardinvestments                                                         195,217              105,795            6,473,726             417,286             8,000           2,908.163         2,174,912          1,575,409
NET CASH USED IN INVESTMENTACTMTIES                               (109,508.668)         (119,596,909)       (126,034,684)         (44,712,283)     (45,003,530)        (33,112,510)      (21,917,781)       (13,341,510)
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTMTIES
Goverrment loans receIved                                            66,888,946           42.251,357          55,948,964           15,070,227        24,992,020         13,622.553         7,918,094          9,137,933
Govemment grants received                                                    -                    -                   -                    -                 -           4,000,000
Interest payableon Government loans                                  26,993,049           17,826,801          12,866,581           10,392,409         8,645,427          6,347,044         5,307,648          4,392,944
Short term loans ramsed                                               6,302,075           15,307,641                  -                    -                 -                  -                  -                 -
NET CASH FROM FINANCING ACTMTIES                                     99,184,070           75,385,799          68,815.545           25,462,636        33,637,447         23,969,597        13,222,742         13,530,377
NET (DECREASEYINCREASE IN CASH
EQUIVALENTS                                                          18,068,111         (38,482,218)         (18,474,735)          (4,385,387)        5,168,460          (452,342)         5,364,050          4,902,065
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS                                           (24,716,956)          13,765,262          32,239,997           36,625,384        31,456,924         31,909,266        26,545,216         21,643,151
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS                                            (6.648,845)         (24,716,956)         13,765,262           32,239,997        36,625,384         31,456,924        31,909,266         26,545,216



- 57 -
TABLE 4. COMMERCIAL FORESTRY COMPONENT - ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Chimaninani Forest and Sawmill Component including Incremental Impact of Projects on
Stapleford, Erin and Gwendingwe
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Capital
Total    Total                  Total          Capital       Investment
Export  Local    Residual Incremental Investment Sawmills &  Total   Incremental
Year  Income  Income  Value    Income                  Forestry    Logging         Cost    Benefits
zs,,000       zs"000    z$,,000         zs$"000       z$X000        z$000  z$"o000           z$"000
1993                                                                         10,52   10,152         (10,152)
1994                                                                        21,164   21,164         (21,164)
1995                                                 0                      64,196    64196          -64196
1996          684      11016                     11700                       95450   108767          -97067
1997         9330      20942                     30272                      29,632   57,122        (26,850)
1998        43666      40405                     84071                      31,160   74,868           9,203
1999        72372      47850                    120222          8,396       21,236   80,203          40,019
2000        90950      53010                    143960          7,120         6,163   69,861         74,099
2001        95832      65733                    161565          4,312         6,121   71,431         90,134
2002       100314      67309                    167623          3,647         6,120   71,874         95,749
2003       105451      71216                    176667         10,434         6,120   81,327         95,340
2004       104870      71782                    176652          9,258         6,120   80,119         96,533
2005       104318      72362                    176680         15,869         6,120   87,005         89,675
2006       104040      72608                    176648          2,530         6,120   73,940        102,708
2007       103655      72859                    176514          6,781         6,120   77,829         98,685
2008       103612      73115                    176727          8,652         6,120   80,589         96,139
2009       103317      73376                    176693          4,956         6,120   76,625        100,068
2010       101875      74789                    176664          6,505         6,120   78,330         98,334
2011       100404      76231                    176635          7,527         6,120   79,480         97,155
2012        98904      77701                    176605         10,477         6,120   82,451         94,154
2013        97415      79200                    176615             17         6,120   72,082        104,533
2014        96235      80348                    176583          4,141         6,120   76,186        100,398
2015        95055      81512                    176567          3,443        6,120   75,511         101,056
2016        93826      82694                    176520          5,492        6,120   77,548          98,972
2017        92607      83893                    176500         11,639        6,120   83,673          92,827
2018        91297      85111                    176408          3,565        6,120   75,304         101,104
2019        90026      86347                    176373          8,098        6,120   79,910          96,463
2020        88736      87601                    176337          6,711        6,120   78,528          97,809
2021        87427      88874                    176301         14,085        6,420   85,897          90,404
2022        86098      90166  66627.25       242891.25          3,570        6,120   75,337         167,554
Economic Internal Rate of Return                               22%
Main Assumptions:            (see next page)



- 58 -
Main Assumptions for the Analysis
The sawmill would have an economically useful life of 30 years.
At full production, the mills would produce 52104 m3 of structural timber, 9183 m3
of crating timber, and 67011 m3 of furniture timber per annum giving a total of
128,297 m3.
Production period would be 330 days per annum and 2 shifts per day.
After 1998, green sawn recovery rates would be 40% for the rehabilitated mills and
51 % for the Chimanimani mill.
An economic price of Z$ 2283 per m3 has been used (see calculation below).
A conversion factor of 0.85 has been used to convert financial prices for non-
tradeable goods.
Unskilled labour has been valued at 0.75 of the prevailing rural wage rate.
Calculation of the Economic Price for Sawnwood
Price -cif UK port                   UKP/m3                   115.00
Exchange Rate                        US$/UKP                    1.65
Price - cifLUK Port                  US$/m3                   189.75
Agents Commission                    US$/m3                     9.49
Ocean Freight                        US$/m3                    55.00
Price - fob Beira                    US$/m3                   125.26
Loading at Beira                     US$/m3                     3.30
Storage at Beira                     US$/m3                     3.99
Off-loading from Rail                US$/m3                     3.30
Handling Agent Charge                US$/m3                     2.74
Price - for Beira                    US$/m3                    111.93
Exchange Rate                        Z$/US$                    23.00
Price - for Beira                    Z$/m3                      2574
Rail Freight to Beira                Z$/m3                       165
Transhipment at Mutare               Z$/m3                        10
Price - for Mutare                   Z$/m3                      2399
Transport - Chibanimani/Mutare       Z$/m3                       116
Price - Chimanimani Saw Mill         Z$/m3                      2283
Sandra Bulls
P:\!UNITS\AFTR1\ADMIN\FORMER\ZFRPICRdoc
03/04/99 12:10 PM



MAP SECTION



IBRD 21601R
-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8                                 0                       32                -
ZIMBABWE
)                              ~~~~~~~FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
-t t    ~r4Zl'  ).2MO ZA SOPEAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,0.e  BOl&/T-SW*Wfl.C -rR                                             LAND CLASSIFICATION
EOTSWANA   0 6 m           }                         A      s t n          g     b~~~~M 
216'      28                     30        g     \    ,   32-          MARCM  1699



