Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,A              31/79 z-2/A-
Rep  No. 7824-ZIM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 26, 1990
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
7Ts   docament has a resbtd d1sftbdom and may be usd by  m        in i    Ibe    _    of
dwir,(ffichI dudes. Its coutft may not otbrwie be dqscloe d  Wodd  aank



C1rrency and Equivalent Units
Currency Unit    u Zimbabwe Dollars (2$)
US$ 1.00           Z$2.00
2$ 1.00          - US$0.50
Abbreviations
AFC        - Agricultural Finance Cooperation
AGRIMEX    - Agricultural. Technical and Extension Services
ARC        - Association of Women's Clubs
BADEA      - Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CAs        =  Comrxal Areas
CAFs       -  Communal Area Faimers Areas
CFD        =  Conmercial Forestry Divisioa
CIDA       - Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA     -  Danish International Development Agency
DFO        -  District Forest Officers
DNR        =  Department of Natural Resources
F-         =  Forestry Assistants
FC         -  Forestry Commission
FINNIDA    =  Finnish International Development Agency
GOZ        = Government of Zimbabwe
GTZ        -  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
HNRT       - Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
NGOs       = Non-Government Organizations
NRB        .  National ResourAes Board
ODA        = Overseas Development Administration
POCC       -  2roject Coordinating Committee
RAP        -  Rural Afforestation Project
RBZ        =  Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe
SFD        =  State Forestry Division
VIDCOS     a  Village Development Committees
ZFC        -  Zimbabwe Forestry College
FISCAL YEAR
Governmentt         July 1 - June 30
PC:         July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLI
FaRUST RESOURC-ES ML,  ASUENT AIM DEEOUHtED  PROsECT
I.  BAcKiOUD
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Loan and Project Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.        BACGROUND . . . . . . . .       .            . .  .  . a .  . .  1
A.   Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
B.   Economic Setting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
C.   The Agricultural Sector      ............                   1
D.   Objectives, Strategy and Achievements . . . . . .           3
II.       THE PFORSTRY SUBSECTOR   ...............                         4
A.   Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           4
B.   Marketing and Prices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           7
C.   Subsectoral Constraints   . . . . . . . . . . . .           9
D.   Subsectoral Policy and Strategies . . . . . . . .          10
E.   Bank Strategy and Lending Operations for Zimbabwe
Forestry  . . .  .  .  ...  ....  ....  ....  .......  .....  12
III.      INSTITUTIONS AND SUPPRT SERVICES  . . . . . . . . . .           14
A.   Forestry Comission   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           14
B.   Other Institutions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          18
IV.       TUE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          20
A.   Project Rationale and Objectives  . . . . . . . .          20
B.   Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          21
C.   Detailed Features   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            21
Rural Forestry
Wildlife and For-st Grazing Management
Comvercial Forestry Development
D.   Project Costs   . ........  .          .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
E.   Financing Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .          30
F.   Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . ...    .  .  .    .  31
C.   Disbursements ....  .  .     .  .  .    ....  .  .  .  .    .  32
H.   Accounts and Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          32
This _r.pr 1. _boud So the fiadlp of an Appwaleal Mission which visite Zimbawe to
Febuauy/sech Xlow. The mission c.qwised _asrs. U. Oklidmb (Mission Leadk an prilcipel
_obber), 8. Zee, P. Otoewu-Aah (Dnk), 0. Migl-, A. JsaJoee_, P. Rolek (Counsutaat), H.
S    ly, lb.E. It (UNA).
This document has a restrid dWibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcal dutis Its contents may not otherise be disclosed wihout Wodd Dank aut_ruiL



V.       PIOJICT       _T         * . . . . . , .     . . . . . . . .  34
A.  Organization and Mnagement . . . . . . . . . . .        34
B.  Role of Women   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      35
C.  Role of NGOs  . .  . . . . .    . . . . * .  . *       36
D.  Annual Work Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      37
s.  Reporting and Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . .      37
F.  Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . .   . ...        38
VI.      MROD3JCTION MUTS AMD PRICS   . . . . . . . . . . .          40
A.  Production  . . . . . . .                               40
B.  Prices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      42
VII.  I        TS. JUSTIFICkTION ND RISK    . . . . .  . . . .       43
A.  Project Benefits  ....  ....  ......                    43
B.  Financial Returns ...............                      43
C.  Economic Benefits and Costs . . . . . . . . . . .      44
D.  Sensitivity and Risk Analysis . . . . . . . . . .      47
VIII.    AGREEETS REACUED AND RSCCHHNSIONS                           49
IX.      ANK1XS
1.  Project Cost S u-miry . . . . . .                      51
Component Cost Sunary by Year. . * . . * . . . .       52
Account Cost Sumary . . . . . . . . .                   53
2. Historical Financial Statements
Table 1 - Actual Balance Sheet (1984-1988). .      54
Table 2 - Actual Income Statement (1984-1988)      55
3. Projected Financial Statements and Assumptions
Table 1 - Projected Balance Sheet (1989-1994)      56
Table 2 - Projected Income Statement
(1989-1994) . . . . . . . . . . . .      57
Table 3 - Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
(1989-1994) . . . . . . . . . . . .      58
Appendix- Assumptions for Financial
Projections . . . . . . . . . . ..       59
4. Estimated Disbursement Schedule. . . . . . . . . .      61
5. Rural Afforestation Program
Table 1 - Targets for Woodlot X-tablishment .      63
Table 2 - Production of Seedlings for Farm
Tree Planting . . . . . . . . . . .      64
Table 3 - Establishment of Satellite
Nurseries and Seedling Production .      65
Table 4 - Establishment of Satellite
Nurseries by Group. . . . . . . . .      66



Table 5 - Establishment and Production
of Central Nurseries  . . . . . . .        67
Table 6 - Yield Estimate for One Hectare of
New Woodlot . . . . . . . . . . . .        68
Table 7 - Support Fund Requirements . . . . .        69
6.  Monitorable Action Program for Target Groups . . .        70
7.  Forestry Commission Operating Policy . . . . . . .        77
8.  Chimanimani Sawmilling Developments
Implementation Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        79
9. Financial Costs and Benefits
Table 1 - Rural Afforestation -
Financial Costs and Benefits . . .         80
Table 2 - Commercial Forestry -
Financial Costs and Benefits . . .         81
Table 3 - Whole Project -
Financial Costs and Benefits . . .         82
10.  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table  1 - Rural Afforestation Program
Economic Costs and Benefits . . .         83
Table  2 - Commercial Forestry Component
Economic Benefits and Costs . . .         84
Table  3 - Overall Economic Conts an4
Benefits. . . . . . . . . . .. .          85
Table  4 - One Hectare Model for
Smallholder Woodlot .. . . . . . .        86
Table  5 - Annual Crop Budgets for One
Hectare of Agriculture Land . . .         87
Table  6 - Net Returns to One Hectare, 21 Year
Cropping System and Three Rotations       88
Table  7 - One Hectare Model for Smallholder
Woodlot. . . . . . . . . . . . . .        89
C'. rt
Forestry Commission Organization
Man       IBRD  NO.  21601R
Xi.       Prolect File Documents
A. Working Papers on Rural Afforestation
B. Working Papers on Women in Rural Afforestation
C. Working Paper on Community Groups and NGOs in Rural
Afforestation
D. Working Paper on Wildlife and Forest Grazing Management
E. Working Papers on Economic Analysis
P. Working Papers on Chimanimani New Sawmill
G. Working Paper on Rehabilitation of the Existing Sawmills
and Mutare Depot
H. Cost Tables



Oy iSOURCz  MNAGEUXT AE             LO E          CT
LA AND PR8Y
Borrower:           Zlmbabwe
Beneficiaries:      Forestry Commission (FC);
Women's Groups; NGOo;
and Farmers in Communal Areas.
Amunt:              US$ 14.5 million
Temses              Bank standard variable rate, 20-year maturity,
including 5-year grace period.
Project
Description:        The proposed project, which would be implemented over
seven years, comprisess (i) a rural forestry
component financing the expansion of the afforestation
program in Communal Areas, strengthening the Forestry
Coniiidusionl institu-sional capability, and supporting
the woodland management program and agroforestry
developments (ii) a wildlife and forest grazing
component for the conservation of natural resources,
through finuancing a pilot scheme in participatory
forest reso'.irce management; and (iii) a commercial
forestry component to increase the efficiency of the
wood processing industry, by financing the replacement
of equipment and rehabilitation of sawmills for the
Forestry Commission.
Benefits
and Riskst          The project would contribute to the preservation of
the environment and wildlife in Communal Areas through
the tree planting program. The project, by working
through schools, women's groups, and NGOs, would also
increase people's awareness of the benefits that tree
planting and conservation would have on the country's
ecology. The project benefits would also include
increased availability of fuelwood, poles, and
saw wood resulting from expanded tree planting,
increased capacity of timber processing, and better
recovery of lumber. The main project risk would be a
lower than anticipated response from individual
farmers and target groups to tree planting for
fuelwood, poles and other wood products which they
would otherwise obtain for free from indigenous



- ii -
would otherwise obtain for free from indigenous
forests.  Although experience during implementation of
the Rural Afforestation Project indicated that tree
planting is becoming popular among fasners in Communal
Areas, close monitoring and review are essential. For
this purpose, the project design includes an action
program to systematically monitor the involvement of
project beneficiaries in project implementation and to
enable the Forestry Commission to make the necessary
adjustments during project implementation.
Prolect Cost Ssarys
Local          Foreian         Total
e -eCUS$mil---(US$ ilion) ---------
A. Rural Forestry
1. Rural Afforestation          11.5              3.6             15.1
2. Woodland Management           1.1              0.4              1.S
Subtotal for Rural Forestry    12.6               4.0             16.6
B. Wildlife and Forest Grazing
Management
1. Wildlife Management           0.5              0.4              0.9
2.  Forest Grazing Management   0.1               0.1              0.2
Subtotal for Wildlife and
Forest Grazing Management        0.6              0.5              1.1
C. Commercial Forestry
Development
1.  New Sawmilling               5.0             23.4             28.4
2. Rehabilitation of
Existing Sawmills            0.1             6.S               6.6
Subtotal for Comercial
Forestry Development             5.1             29.9             35.0
Total Baseline Costs                18.3             34.4             52.7
Physical Contingencies             0.8              1.6              2.4
Price Contingencies                6.8              2.2              9.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 25.9             38.2             64.1



- ±u. -
ivnancina Plans
IBRD                                3.3             11.2             14.5
DANIDA                              2.6              6.8              9.4
BADNA                                                9.4              9.4
CIDA                                0.2              0.8              1.0
GOZ                                 5.0              2.8              7.8
PC                                  7.8              7.2              15.0
Beneficiaries                       7.0              ---               7.0
Total                              25.9             38.2              64.1
UstiMLted Dlsbursement MOB millLon)
PY91   PY92  PY93   PY9    PYS   Mxp   PY7
Anrual               1.7    3.2    3.8    2.6    1.2    1.0    1.0
Cumulative           1.7    4.9    8.7   11.3  12.5  13.5   14.5
caonomic late of Returns
Total Projects                                302
Forestry Commlssion Savmilling Programs       302
Rutal Afforestatioa Programs                  192



FOUEST RESOURCES tUAG}HENT AND DEV LOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACRGROUND
A. Introduction
X.01      The proposal of the Government of Zimbabwe (G02) for this Forestry
Project follows a Rural Afforestation Project (RAP) implemented with thea
assistance of IDA from April 1983 to March 31, 1989. RAP0 was considered as
a pilot scheme and the initial phase of a long-term afforestation program and
was expected to produce sufficient information that could be of practical
value for future development. Provision was madg in RAP for the preparation
of a major follow-up project encompassing an afforestation program and the
development of commercial forestry. The Government's project proposal was
reviewed by a World Bank mission with the participation of the FAOIWorld Bank
Cooperative Programme (CP) in January/February 1988, at which time additional
preparation work was recommended.   The project preparation report was
finalized by the Forestry Commission (FC) with the active support of a CP
mission which visited Zimbabwe in August-September 1988. The report is based
an the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission which visited Zimbabwe in
February/March 1989.
B. Economic Setting
1.02      ?imbabwe is a landlockea country of some 390,000 sq.km, with a
population of about 9.3 million in 1988, growing at Z.82 $/ per annum and
nearly three-fourths of which is rural.  Although the average per capita GDP
of US$660 in 1988 is high compared to that of many developing countries, the
distribution of income is extremely skewed.  One of the major challenges
facing the country is how to redress this Imbalance while revitalizing the
economic  performance  of  its major  sectors.    The  economy  is  fairly
diversified, with the service sector accounting for about 46t of GDP,
agriculture for 152, manufacturing for 262, and mining for 13Z. The country
has a wide range of exports comprising agricultural, manufactured and mineral
commodities; and a well-established economic infrastructure. It is basically
self-sufficient in staple foodstuffs and sawntimber and obtains most of its
energy requirements, including fuelvood, from dcaestic sources. However,
the economy has been marked by sharp cyclical fluctuations since the turn of
the decade, reflecting the impact of recurrent droughts on agriculture.
C. The Agricultural Sector
1.03      Although agriculture accounts for less than 152 of GDP, the sector
(including forestry) is the backbone of the Zimbabwean economy, directly
supporting more than two-thirds of the population, rad contributing about
502 to exports. About 852 of the country's land is suitabLe for agriculture,
1/ Based on the most recent demographic survey.



- 2-
and ecological conditions allow production of a wide range of agricultural
commodities.   The country is typically divided into five agro-ecological
zones (natural regions), on the bas4s of the amount and regularity of
rainfall and the quality of the agricultural land.   Malze is the most
important commodity in terms of food security and domestically marketed
produce, while tobacco, followed by cotton, dominates agricultural exports.
The other major commodities are sugar, wheat, coffee, tea, groundnuts,
soybeans, sunflower seeds, and sorghum. Once wholly dependent on imports,
Zimbabwe now produces about two-thirds of its wheat consumption, but
cultivation  is viable  only under  irrigation.    The  country  also has
appreciable potential for expanding horticultural products for both domestic
and export markets. During the past two decades, horticultural production
has expanded steadily and now accounts for about 92 of total agricultural
production.   In addition, livestock, aspecially cattle, are an important
source of farm income and draft power for many farmers. Fuelwood is the main
traditional source of energy used in rural areas for household consuption
and agricultural production (e.g., curing virginia tobacco).
1.04      Largely because of past  socio-political policies,  Zimbabwe'e
agriculture is acutely dualistic.  At one extreme is the smallholder farming
system, involving 800,000 families or 9t.2 of farm households, known as the
Communal Area Farmers (CAFs). Akin to these tarmers and, therefore, falling
under the same system, are some 52,000 farmers recently resettled into what
used to be commercial farming areas. The Commnal s-eas (CAs) occupy about
49Z of arable land, located mostly in the ecologic&.4z  low-yield and high-
risk areas, with poorly developed infrastructure and subject to high
;cpul:t1o= pz=j.  .4 X.          las l.dagir4ation.  'LiAey are, by definition,
marginal lauds.  Production is primarily for subsistence purposes, using
mostly hand tools and few modern inputs. Land tenure is based on customary
individual-user rights for cropped land, and on communal-user rights for
grazing land.  Before independence in 1980, agricultural support service
agencies paid little attention to the needs of the CAFs. Partly due to that
fact, the CAP9 are characterized by low productivity and annual incomes,
estimated at Z$900 per household, and account for only 35 of agricultural
gross domestic production.   In addition to the land shortage and poor
ecological conditions, the main constraints immediately facing the
smallholder system include limited technological packages, inadequate
financial means to take full advantage of the available technologies,
inherently high costs of obtaining agricultural support services, and
operational conditions that engender a high degree of risk aversion.  A
relatively high proportion of time is spent on the collection of firewood,
especially by vo en.
1.05      At the other extreme is the large-scale commercial farming system,
comprising 4,200 farmers, or 0.t5 of farm households, occupying nearly 392
of arable land, under freehold tenure rights, and situated mostly in the
ecologically high potential zones. The system operates at a fairly high
level of technology, using a full range of farm machinery and modern inputs
and, until independence, enjoyed the bulk of the agricultural support
services. It has thus achieved levels of productivity and Incomes comparable
to those found in the developed countries. In between the smallholder and
large-scale commercial farming systems is the small-scale commercial system,
involving about 8,500 farmers.  The commercial faming system as a whole



accounts for about 652 of agricultural gross domestic production. The main
constraints now facing this system stem from inadequate foreign exchange to
finance imported capital and recurrent inputs upon which the system
critically depends; and credit for new ventures, such as horticulture. Both
of these systems enjoy an abundant supply of fuelvood which is primarily used
as an input in the production of tobacco.
D.     Obiectives. Strateay and Achievements
1.06      The national agricultural development objectivee aim at ensuring
food security, increasing export earnings, and raisivg living standards in
the rural areas in general and among the smallholders in particular. The
strategy for achieving these ends is, therefore, predicated on the attainment
of &gricultural growth with equitable distribution of land to mallholdere.
A critical test of this strategy is ensuring that redistribution of
agricultural land recognizes and maintains the important contribution of the
large farm sector to GDP and its crucial role in the production of all the
madu c%mjodities, including staple foodstuffs.  The strategy also seeks to
promote increased production by smallholders of the crops well suited to
pea-ant farming, while encouraging commercial farmers to diversify into new
export and import-substitution crops that require relatively high levels of
capital investments and management skills.   For smallholders, such crops
include staple food grains, cotton, legumes, and oilseeds; and for commercial
farmers, they include particularly wheat and horticul-tural products.
1.07      Zimbabwe's agriculture nas made some progress towards achieving the
above objectives. During 1980-87, the sector grew at an average of 2.62 p.a.
in real terms, and agr.cultural exports at 3.82 p.a.  The production of
staple food grains has generally exceeded domestic needs, with maize stocks
reaching 1.8 million tons in 1986, equivalent to two years of domestic
consumption needs.   Equally impressive has been the performance of the
smallholders as they increased their contribution to agricultural production
from 152 to 35Z, marketed maize from 102 to 402, and cotton production from
72 to 532 during the period.   The sector's achievements attest to the
effectiveness of the measures taken by the Government to alleviate the major
constraints to production. For the sector as a whole, these measures have
included maintaining generally attractive producer prices and generous
allocation of foreign exchange resoureas relative to other sectors. Specific
to smallholders, the measures have focussed ons  raising productivity by
developing and disseminating teemnological packages relevant to the CA
farming system, coupled with better access to credit; reducing marketing
costs by improving feeder roads and bringing marketing centers closer to
producing areas; and minimizing financial risks by providing assured market
outlets and stable producer prices. Vhile the above measures have alleviated
some of the major constraints, more efforts are needed to improve the quality
and coverage of agricultural support services and to ensure a sound pricing
policy.



-4
A. Resources
2.01      Zimbabwe's forest area covers about 23 million ha or 59 percent of
the country's total land area. About 10.5 million ha of forest area consists
of open savannah woodland in communal areas which have experienced soms
depletion as a result of clearing for agricultural production and fuelvood
extraction. The protected rorest areas and forest reserves account for about
5.6 million ha and include approximately 100,530 ha of industrial plantations
of mainly pine and eucalyptus. Arouvd two-thirds of these plantations are
privately owned and managed, vhile the balance is state owned and managed by
the Forestry Commission (FC), a semi-autonomous parastatal organization. The
remaining 6.9 million ha are owned by the commercial farmers. This forest
resour'e is well managed and is exploited on a sustainable basis.
Indigenous Forestg
2.02      Much of the indigenous forest depletion occurs in the CAs, where
two main factors are at the root. of the problem; clearing for agriculture
and fuelwood harvesting.   Cleuring for agricultural production precedes
fuelwood harvesting, and is the primary cause of forest depletion in many
CAs. Recent estimates suggest that the average annual conversion of woodland
into cultivated area increa.ed from 55,000 ha during 1963-1973 to
approximately 84,000 ha during 1974-1984. The forest growing stock lost in
this mwnner is estimated to have risen from 1.4 million m3 per annum during
1963-1973 to 2.2 million x3 per annum during 1974-1984. In many CAs, the
challenge is maintaining a balance between the demands placed on land for
agricultural production and fuelwood and the capability of the land to
sustain existing production levels. The prospects are that the clearing of
woodlands in CAs will continue to increase at the same rate as the population
increases unless the trend is reversed by adopting effective woodland
management techniques.
2.03      The collection of fuelwood and poles contributes to deforastation
in CAs. Recent estimates indicate that about 95 percent of rural households
are dependent on fuelwood as a traditional source of energy. About 13 m3
million of fuelvood is consumed annually and is mostly extracted from
woodland. Although there are no shortages of fuelwood at the national level
since present demand can generally be met from incremental yields, shortages
do occur at the district level in some CAs. It is estimated that almost 15
percent of the national consumption of fuelwood is met by forest depletion.
Assuming a population increase of 2.8S per annum, the consumption of fuelwood
deriving from depletion would increase and the shortages currently being
experienced in some CAs, therefore, could become a general pattern in most
CAs if proper woodland management techniques are not implemented.   The
environmental consequences of this deforestation require immediate attention.
2.04      In aggregate, the remaining indigenous woo4land resources are
capable of meeting the current fuelvood requirement by the turn of the
century with proper woodland management. However, if Government fails to



adopt effective woodland management, future fuelvood requirements only could
be met by means of increasing forest depletion (Table 2.1).
Table 2.1: Suip1y and Demand Protection for Fuelvood
(Million m1
From               From
Incremental         Forest
Production          Delletion        Total
Fuelwood Demand)SuRplys
1982                       10.0               1.7           11.7
1992                        7.9               7.0           14.9
2002                        6.5              12.7           19.2
2.05     The rate of forest depletion to meet fuelvood requirements would
dramatically increase from only 1.7 m3 million in 1982 to about 13 m3 million
in 2002.  It should also be noted that the above figures conceal the problem
of distribution among regions. In the densely populated CAs the remaining
resource is inadequate, while in the commercial farming areas there is still
a surplus. In fact, the bulk of the incremental production shown above would
occur in the commercial farming areas, while depletion would take place
almost exclusively in CAs.
Forest Plantations
2.06     Forest plantations are owned by either private enterprises or the
FC. They cover a total of about 100,530 ha, of which 60,500 ha are softwood
(mainly pine). The softwood plantations are capable of supplying annually
562,500 ;n3 of sawlogs and 145,600 m3 of pulpwood on a sustained yield basis.
Table 2.2 summarizes the supply and utilization of sawlogs on a sustained
yield basis at the end of 1987. The apparent capacity underutilization in
forest plantations means that there is room for further expansion in
installed capacity for wood processing operations.



-6
Table 2.2s Supply and Utilization of Softwood Sawlois in Zimbabwe. 1987
(On Sustained Yield Basis)
ArealCompany             Total Area    Available        Savlog     Surplus/
(Ha)          Sawlogs      Utilization   Deficit
------__--------- me/annum -------- -----------
Mutare North
Forestry Commission         8,832      68,145           66.530       1,615
Border Timbers Ltd.      5,266      77,020           73,000       4,020
Wattle Company Ltd.      5,465      23,205           23,205           -
Others 1/                6,687      35.168           48.660     -13.492
Total SupplylUtilization  26.250      203,538          211.395       -78S7
Mhtare South:
Border Timbers Ltd.    19,289      197,683         111,690       85,993
Forestry Commission        14,267     151,775           50,000     101,775
Others 2J                  726       9.520          12.000       -2.480
Total SupplylUtilization  34.282      358978           173 690     18S.228
_0  Consists of Mutare Board and Paper, E.C. Maeikle, Ruktoso Forests
(Pvt) Ltd;
21 Consists of Ratbmore Estates.
2.07     Industrial wood production in Zimbabwe is dominated by sawmilling
(Tr-ble 2.3). In 1987188, the total intake of sawmills and other wood-based
enterprises was about 667,300 m3 of local roundwood and over 5,400 m3 of
imported materials for veneerlply and match manufacturing.



Table 2.3:  Structure of Wood-Based Industry in Zimbabwe. 1988
Number of         Roundwood         Z of Total
Enterprises       Utilization        Utilization
Cml year)
Sawmills                     26               457,738               69.0
Veneer/Ply Hills              2                23,332                3.0
Match Factories               1                 1,148                0.0
Pole Impregnation Plants      5                41,705                6.0
Pulp mills                    1               119,374               18.0
Particleboard Plants          2
Mining Timber Plants          1                11,800                2.0
Charcoal Plants               3                12.239                2.0
Total                        41               667.336              100.0
2.08     The wood-based industry is dominated by the private sector; the PC
is the only parastatal organization in the industry. About 97S of savmilling
production is based on plantation wood (mainly pine and eucalyptus), and only
3? of the industry's production is dependent on indigenous hardwood. Total
savntimber output in 1987188 amounted to almost 188,200 m3, of Which 89Z was
soft sawntimber. About 96Z of soft sawntimber is produced in the eastern
highlands  of Manicaland province.   The production of both coniferous
roundwood and sawntimber is highly concentrated; Border Timbers Ltd.
(industry leader) and a few private companies control about 70? of the
industry output.  PC, a parastatal organization, is the only other major
producer of sawntimber. These producers rely on their own forest plantations
for the supply of roundwood. Prospects for structural change toward a more
competitive environment are limited by the long-term gestation period of
plantations which acts as an effective barrier to entry in the industry. The
existing softwood plantations south of Mutare are grossly underutilized since
stocks of coniferous sawlogs far exceed installed sawmilling capacity. The
proposed expansion in sasmilling capacity under the project would address
this issue by expanding utilization capacity. In particular, FC's expansion
would reduce further concentration in the industry   and, hence, improve
industry efficiency.
2.09     Industrial production of other wood products by primary processors
includes impregnated transmission poles, veneer and plywood, panel products,
woodpulp, and mining timbers.  The production of woodchips is currently
negligible, but is expected to increase with the planned expansion in the
pulp and paper, and particleboard industries.
B. Marketins and Prices
Fuelwood and Poles
2.10     Fuelwood and poles are normally collected for personal use rather
than bought or sold in CAs. However, wood is counercialized in urban areas,



where it is generally obtained from indigenous woodland in the commercial
farming areas. Farmers charge about Z$3/1m for a stand of indigenous vood
at source (stumpage). Wholesalers in urban centers charge Z$251m3, after
adding transportation costs.   Retail prices after cutting, stocking and
transportation to urban markets range between Z$50 and X$70 per m3. However,
comercial consumption (i.e., urban markets) accounts for only three percent
of total fuelvood use in the country.
2.11     It is in the urban markets that pricing measures can have an effect
on fuelwood use. Higher prices could lead to a switch to alternative fuels
(e.g., electricity, kerosene and coal). The existence of a commercial market
for fuelwood in major towns (e.g., Harare and Bulawayo) has encouraged the
cutting of vjood in surrounding areas, contributing to the scarcity of wood
in these areas. Over 95 percent of the fuelvood and poles is consumed in
rural areas, especially in CAs where wood is collected free of charge.
2.12     In CAs fuelvood is largely collected as a free good.  On average,
a household uses about 8.0 m3 of fuelwood per annum and spends about 640
hours of family members' time collecting it. However, in areas where wood
is particularly scarce, the time devoted to collection is considerably more
than this. Thus, despite the absence of cash outlays (financial costs) in
the collection of wood, households in most CAs spend a substantial amount of
otherwise productive time to obtain fuelvood. In such cases, the opportunity
cost of collecting fuelwood can be quite substantial (para 7.06).
Sawntimber
2.13     The distribution of sawntimber, like its production,  is highly
concentrated at the wholesale level.   Border Timbers Limited, and P.G.
Industries Limited (both private companies) dominate timber trading
operations in the country. Both companies are vertically integrated so that
the marketing of savntimber is done in conjunction with the production and
marketing of other wood products and construction products (e.g., furniture
and roof trusses, etc.). The FC sells its sawntimber on an ex-factory basis.
2.14     The high concentration of trading operations and the strong demand
for savntimber are currently reflected in the considerable difference between
ex-factory prices and wholesale prices for structural sawntimber.   At
present, mark-ups account for about 702 of the wholesale prices for most
grades of structural sawntimber; a further 10? on wholesale prices is usually
added to arrive at retail prices.  Over 282 of the mark-up is, however,
accounted for by the high costs of internal transportation, leaving an
average real mark-up of 42? for wholesalers. The real mark-up would be lower
if the discounts on listed prices ranging between 5? to 252 and trade credits
of up to 90 days were factored into the price calculations. A general price
freeze introduced in 1987 has restrained price increases at es-factory and
wholesale levels and effectively acted as a price control mechanism.
However, it is possible that the relatively high mark-up is a result of
oligopolistic behavior (collusion) within the industry. Bank support to FC
is intended to prevent further concentration and such oligopolistic behavior
in the industry.



2.15     Exports of sawntimber to South Africa and Botswana, estimated at 10l
of total domestic production, have been carried out at the expense of
domestic consumption in order to obtain much needed foreign exchange for the
purchase of spare parts and imported raw materials. Current f.o.b. prices,
averaging Z$330/m3 for sawntimber exports to the Republic of South Africa,
are generally 20X below domestic prices.   However, domestic prices in
Zimbabwe are excessively high because of the prevailing supply-constrained
situation. In terms of comparative advantage, export prices obtained in the
RSA and Botmwana markets would still be profitable to Zimbabwe's sawmilling
industry in general and to FC's new sawmilling operations in particular. The
strong domestic demand for sawntimber is expected to prevail at least through
the next ten years, largely as a result of the espected growth in the
construction industry (Table 2.4).   Expansion in savntimber production,
proposed under the project, would simply help to alleviate, but not
eliminate, the urmet domestic demand for sauntimber in the near future.
Table 2.4X Proiected Demand and Suvyly for Savntimber. 1988-2000
(000 m3)
Year                Suvply                 Demand            Surplus/Deficit
Hardwood Softwood Total Domestic3 Euort* Total Domestic Exuort Total
1988       20.8    167.4   188.2   200.0    25.0   225.0   -30.7   -6.2 -36.9
1990       21.4    194.41  212.4   216.0    26.0   242.0   -24.8   -4.8 -29.6
1995       22.0    254.42  276.4   263.4    27.0   290.0   -13.6    0.0 -13.6
2000       22.0    254.4   276.4   321.0   29.0   350.0   -73.6    0.0 -73.6
l/ Includes sawmilling expansion of 24,000 m3lannum by Border Timber Ltd.
z; Includes production of 40A i00 m3lannum by Wattle Company, and
FCs expansion of 27,000 m /inmum under the project.
31 Based on an average annual growth rate of 4 percent.
!1 Based on an average annual growth rate of 2 percent.
C. Subsectoral Constraints
2.16      The  indigenous  forests  face  two major problems  in  CAs and
resettlement schemest (a) continued clearing of woodland for agricultural
production; and (b) harvesting of these forests for fuelwood and poles.
Solutions to these problems fall into three complementary categories: (i)
reconciling the needs for agricultural production and adequate wood supplies
in the CAs through better resource planning and use at the village level;
(ii) increasing wood supply through afforestation, reafforestation and
indigenous woodland management programs; and (iii) substituting alternative
fuels for wood.
2.17      The most attractive option for increasing the fuelwood supply in
CAs with a wood surplus would be through effective management of the
indigenous woodland.   This would require the implementation of proper
management   regimes  and  promulgation  of  appropriate  institutional
arrangements.  The economic cost of wood from this source would be the
lowest.    This would continue  to constitute  one of the PC's primary



- 10 -
responsibilities. The potential substitutes for fuelvood are electricity.
coal and kerosene.    The role of substitute fuels in supplying energy to
rural households in Zimbabwe in inevitably limited by their availability in
CAs and the high cash outlays required in relation to rural cash earnings.
The most viable option would be to increase fuelvood supply through programs
that would enable farmers to incorporate tree planting into their farm plans
and decisions relating to resource use. However, the shortage of land in the
densely populated CAs would place severe constraints on the woodlot type of
tree planting. Furthermore, most people in wood-deficit CAs do not have the
required resources to purchase the inputs (seedlings, fencing wires, etc.)
needed to establish woodlots.
2.18      Foreign exchange availability to purchase imported spare patts and
equipment appears to be the most serious constraint in the sawuilling
industry.   This situation, coupled with the Government export promotion
incentives (e.g., foreign exchange retention), has forced all sawmills to
export part of their production (at the expense of domestic consumption) in
order to earn foreign exchange for purchasing needed spare parts and imported
inputs.   Also, due to  lack of foreign exchange, major expansion or
rehabilitation investments have not been made in most sawmills, except in
those mills which are foreign-owned and have access to foreign exchange.
This has generally affected the operational efficiency of the sawmills
concerned, particularly the PC's sawmills which depend entirely on official
allocations  of  foreign  exchange.    Although  Zimbabwe's  transportation
infrastructure is generally good, there are problems in the distribution of
sawntimber which generally are due to inadequate railway and road
transportation.
D. Subsectoral Policy and Strategies
Policy Obiectives
2.19      Zimbabwe's  major  policy  objectives   underpinning   forestry
legislation consist of:
(a) encouraging improved management and controi of the forestry
resource within the public and private sectors to ensure
sustainable production of forest produce;
(b) promoting efficient production and utilization of forest produce
within all activities related to the forestry subsector;
(c) maintaining a reasonable balance between the supply of, and demand
for, forest produce within the country, while allowing for economic
production of an exportable surplus;
(d) providing for the conservation and protection of the indigenous
forest resource in environmentally fragile areas; and
(e) integrating and providing complementarity between agricultural
production and forestry development to ensure sustainable
production in both subsectors.



- 11 -
Forestry DeveloDment Stratesy
2.20      In order to achieve the above policy objectives and in response to
the issues and constraints facing the forestry subsector in the country, the
Government has formulated a strategy which includes the following elements:
(a) Forest Ownershig is in both public and private hands. Unlike in
most African countries where forests are owned by governments,
Zimbabwe has encouraged both the public and private sectors to own
and manAge forests. Most of the indigenous forests in CAs and
state lands are owned and managed by the state through the FC and
local authorities. In addition, PC owns and manages exotic forest
plantations consisting mainly of softwood and eucalyptus species.
Indigenous forest occurring in commercial farming areas (CFAs) is
owned and managed by private parties.   The Forest Act, which
regulates and controls the management of both public and private
forests, provides for compulsory and voluntary incentives to
establish, manage and use forest resources in CFAs.  There are
about eleven private enterprises which grow trees on a couuercial
basis.  Within the CAs, the government, acting through FC, is
committed to the promotion of, and support for, individual or
communal ownership of woodlots to meet subsistence and commercial
requirements for fuelwood and poles.
(b) Efficient Production and Utiliza;..on of forest products are being
pursued through a free market framework which encourages
competition among participants in the production and marketing of
wood and wood products. The forestry subsector is one of the few
sectors of the Zimbabwean economy in which there are no specific
price controls. This policy measure is intended to stimulate the
development of efficient forest industries to supply domestic
markets and, where appropriate, exports. However, due to foreign
exchange constraints and self-sufficiency considerations, forest
industries supplying the domestic market are de facto protected.
On the other hand, access to foreign markets by public and private
enterprises is encouraged through various incentives (including
foreign exchange retention by exporters).
(c) Management of IndAgenous Forests, which supply wood to the private
wood processing industry, is mainly the responsibility of FC. FC
does not exploit the indigenous wood but manages it for the
Government. In order to ensure sustainable management of these
forests, the PC grants periodic concessions to private operators
in certain areas of the CA forest and specifies the amount of wood
to be cut as well as the stumpage to be charged. On the other
hand, FC's concession system is flexible and can adapt to the
legitimate concerns of the processing industries regarding wood
supply. The PC intends to adopt the concept of replacement cost"
as the basis for determining stumpage in indigenous forests,
modified to take into account the financial viability of the wood
processing industry in the country and its comparative advantage
in the export trade. Research in appropriate methods of management



- 12 -
and conservation of indigenous forests would be initiated and
implemented by the FC in the near future.
(d)  Rural Afforestation Proaram  is intended to replace the wood cut
in CAs and to supply fuelwood to the rural population and farming
community as well as arrest soil erosion in the long term. The FC
would continue to implement this program as its major long-term
strategy for tackling the fuelvood problem in the country. It is
intended to focus on CAs with a severe deficit of fuelwood and
serious soil erosion, especially in Save Valley, including a large
area around Masvingo and to the south and west of Mutare.  The PC
would continue to involve the establishment of central nurseries
in supplying seedlings for individual and communal tree planting.
The existence of a market for fuelvood in major towns has
encouraged deforestation in surrounding areas, contributing to the
scarcity of fuelvood in these areas.  In the long run, fuelwood
prices in areas surrounding major towns are likely to rise further
and induce landowners to grow trees commercially.
(s) Agroforestrv could provide a long-term solution to the principal
cause of deforestation in Zimbabwe: namely, the competition for
land between crop/livestock production and trees. It is projected
that the proportion of area cultivated in CAs would rise in keeping
with population growth, and that more marginal land would be
cultivated causing the disappearance of tree cover and soil
erosion. Similarly, it is recognized that programs such as Rural
Afforesta ton would alleviate the problem of fuelwood supply but
would not, on their own, stop deforestation if the clearance of
land for agricultural use continued unabated in the CAs.
Agroforestry provides the complementarity between agriculture and
forestry while minimizing the competition between them. However,
there are no proven packages for this purpose in Zimbabwe. The PC,
therefore, intends to initiate research and pilot schemes in
agroforestry development. These will essentially entails (i) the
development and testing of agroforestry systems in Cs; (ii) the
development of wildlife management and utilization schemes to
integrate wildlife management with forestry management; and (iii)
the establishment of pilot forest grazing management schemes in
selected protected forest areas, starting with Mafungabusi Forest.
E.  Bank Strategv and Lending Operations for Zimbabwe Forestry
2.21      Stratemy.   The Bank's strategy for Zimbabwe forestry aims at
assisting the Government in its efforts to promote sustainable resource use,
rehabilitate degraded resources, preserve the environment, and make forest
utilization more efficient. To these ends, the strategy places emphasis on
reorienting forestry support services towards forest conservation by
strengthening the institutional capacity of PC to carry out forestry
research,   indigenous  woodland  management,   agroforestry   and   rural
afforestation, especially in the densely populated Communal Areas. The Bank
is also supporting government programs (ongoing and in the pipeline) which
are designed to reduce land pressures and preserve the environment. These



- 13 -
include:   ti) the Research and Extension Project which is developing
appropriate technology and disseminating it to farmers to enhance efficient
utilization of land and forest resources; (ii) the Population Sector Report
and Family Health Project which are assisting Government to develop and
implement appropriate population policies, especially strengthening family
planning programs; (iii) the review of land policies, including land tenure,
land redistribution and resettlement schemes aimed at efficient utilir'ition
of land resources: and (iv) the preparation of a Tropical Forestrv  ->ion
Plan by PY91 which would rationalize forestry policies.   The pL.,osed
project, by improving forest resources management, would be consistent with
the Bank-supported program of environmental protection. In addition, the
Bank's involvement in Zimbabwe forestry not only complements the activities
of other donors but also helps mobilize additional external resources with
the view to minimizing the cost of funds.
2.22      Lendina Operation.  The Bank's lending operation in the forestry
subsector consists of a project aimed at improving the conservation of land
resources  and  strengthening  FC's  institutional  capacitys    the  Rural
Afforestation Project (RAP). At the time the proposed project was appraised,
the Project Completion Report for RAP was not yet available.   However,
supervision reports indicate that, allowing for the initial delays, overall
project implementation has been satisfactory. Like all the other projects
in Zimbabwe, RAP suffered, in varying degrees, from institutional and
managerial problems.
2.23      Lessons Learned from the Previous Forestry Project.   The main
lessons learned from RAP are that it is necessary to keep the project design
simple until institutional and management capabilities are strengthened; to
provide for a realistic project implementation period; to ensure effective
staff training programs; and to devise practical arrangements for inter-
agency coordination where coordination is necessary. The principal lesson
from RAP concerns the need to decentralize activities. Seedling production,
woodlot establishment and even extension work cannot be carried out
adequately by FC alone. FC should work in concert with target groups and
AGRITEX.   In designing the Forest Resources Management and Development
Project, the above lessons have been taken into account.
2.24      The Role of Other Donors in the Forestry Subsector.  In addition
to the Bank, several other donors are active in the forestry subsector in
Zimbabwe: DANIDA has been active in supporting rural forestry and would
cofinance the proposed project; CIDA has provided support to the Zimbabwe
Forestry College (ZFC) and has financed a number of conservation activities;
GTZ has been supporting the agroforestry program under its Coordinated
Agricultural and Rural Development; FINNIDA provides equipment through
import-support to commercial forestry; ODA is providing technical assistance
to FC's research division; Italian Aid is supporting ZFC by financing the
industrial forestry program at the college; and a number of NGOs have
supported several forestry programs in Zimbabwe. The Bank is also working
closely with other major donors in the preparation of a Tropical Forestry
Action Plan and the Agricultural Memorandum which are scheduled to be
completed in FY91 (para 2.21). Thus, the Bank's proposed support to the
subsector would complement the efforts of these other donors from both policy
and institutional perspectives.



_ 14 -
III. INSTIT?ULIONS AND SUPPORt SERVICES
A. Forestry Commission
3.01      Structure.  The Forestry Coomission (PC) was established in 1954,
as a parastatal organization, to take over forestry reaponsibilities from the
Department of Forestry in the Ministry of Agriculture. FC was mandated by
the Forest Act of 1949 to implement the Government's etrategy in the forestry
subsector and to commercially exploit and supply industrial wood.   It is
classified as a revenue earning perastatal organization and is wholly owned
by the Government of Zimbabwe. It is independent on technical matters but
responsible to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism (MNRT) on policy
matters relating to its regulatory functions. Its commercial operations fall
under the jurisdiction of a recently established Parastatal Commission which
coordinates all the parastatal organizations in Zimbabwe.
3.02      Functions. FC is charged with two distinct functionss a regulatory
function and a commercial function. Its regulatory function is that of a
typical forest administrative authority and covers state forestry management,
the conservation of timber and timber resources, afforestation, the
regulation and control of timber and timber products, and the provision of
support services, i.e., forest research, education and resource survey and
assessment. It is responsible for the development of general forest policy
in Zimbabwe and makes reports and recommendations on policy issues to the
Minister of MNRT.  PC's commercial operations consist of the production and
marketing of wood and wood products. The details of FC's functions are
contained in its operating policy in Annex 7.
3.03      Manatement.      PC  is governed by an eight member Board of
Commissioners appointed by the President of the Republic for a period of
three years. The Board is responsible to the Ministry of Natural Resources
and Tourism and has delegated much of its powers to the General Manager. The
General Manager (GM), who reports to the Board, is in charge of the day-to-
day operations of FC and is also appointed by the President. He is assisted
by a management team comprising the Deputy General Manager, and division
heads who report to him. He is responsible for translating the policies of
the Board into operational guidelines for the staff, for meeting the goals
and objectives of FC, and for supervising of the staff. Overall, FC is a
well managed organization.
3.04      FC's management has been strengthened by filling the vacant
management positions, particularly those of the Deputy General Manager and
the Manager of the Research Division.   Most of the middle management
positions have also been filled. However, there are gaps in the managerial
skills and technical proficiency of middle management, especially in the
Commercial Forestry Division because of inexperience. This problem has been
recognized by FC's senior management, which is taking steps to address it.
FC has embarked, with the assistance of ODA, on a three-year staff
development program. The manpower development program includes on-the-job
training and overseas training for specialized skills.



-15-
3.05      Orianization.   Under RAP, FC reorganized itself with a view to
improving its efficiency. At present, it has two main operational divisions
(State Forestry and Comercial Forestry), and two supporting divisions of
Research,  and Administration and Personnel.  Its present organizational
structure is shown in Chart 1.
3.06      The State  Forestry Division  (SFD)  is responsible  for  rural
afforestation, the development of agroforestry, forestry extension, and the
conservation and management of indigenous forests. It is also charged with
the management and protection of about 890,000 ha of State fore'3ts, and
through its State Forestry West section, is engaged in issuing concessions
for logging, allocating leases for grazing, and running a safari operation.
FC charges stumpage fees ranging from Z$24 to Z$52 per m3 depending on the
species. The stumpage fees for indigenous species are considered adequate.
They are determined on the basis of 'replacement cost', modified to take into
account the financial viability of the wood processing industry.   At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that FC would review the stumpage fees
annually and adjust them to ensure .hat they remain at appropriate levels as
necessary [para 8.01(i)].
3.07      The SPD is headed by a manager who is responsible to the GM. Its
afforestation and forestry development activities in the field are
coordinated by two Regional Forest Officers (IRFO) who are each responsible
for four provinces. In the provinces, the Provincial Forest Officers (PFO)
are responsible for all forestry development and administration and are the
nmmediate supervisors of the District Forest Officers (DFO). Both the PFOs
and DFOs are members of the provincial and district development committees
vhere forestry development matters are discussed and planned together with
local authorities and other economic sectors. There are at present about 30
established DPO positions, half of which are vacant.   The DWOs are the
immediate  supervisors  of  the Forest Assistants  (FAs).    The  FAs are
responsible for forestry extension and work mainly through existing
institutions and groups, such as the Department of Agricultural and Technical
Extension Services (AGRITEX), schools, local groups, and other governmental
and non-governmental agencies working in rural development. The FAs are also
responsible for establishing nurseries and distributing seedlings whenever
required. There are at present 41 FAs working in the field.
3.08      The  SFD is active in operations like safaris, administering and
controllina t-he exploitation of forests under concession. and the leasing of
grazing areas.   It currently runs the largest safari operation in the
country, Ngamo Safaris, which is an important source of income to the SFD.
Parallel to these activities, a new program has comienced which involves
local people living adjacent to the forest areas in the management and
exploitation of wildlife. This system will result in sharing benefits with
the FC. Preliminary results appear promising and there are hopes that these
activities will reduce poaching.
3.09      The SFD is also supported by a Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit and an Information and Extension Unit. The former, which is newly
established, would be responsible for planning, monitoring and evaluation of
development programs and would recommend corrective measures for deficiencies



- 16 -
observed during project implementation. The latter is mainly involved in the
production and supply of extension materials to be used by the field workers.
3.10      The Conuercial Forestry Division (CFD) is responsible for the
development of plantations and the management of commercial forestry estates
as well as for timber production and marketing. As CFD's activities are in
the eastern highlands, its main office is located in Iutare. The CPD is
headed by a manager, who answers to the GM, and is assisted by two operations
managers and one production and sales manager. At present, FC manages nine
estates and operates six sawmills, and these, for administrative purposes are
divided into northern and southern regions. The operational managers are
responsible for management and operation in the two regions. The production
and sales manager operates from the depot at Mutare.
3.11      The CFD is the second most important producer of softwood sawn
timber in the country, accounting for about 37X of total supply.   Its
production is, however, declining due to problems faced in its logging and
sawmilling operations caused by obsolete machines and equipment.   EC's
sawmills are all equipped with circular saws except one which has frame saws.
The machinery is old and requires frequent repair and maintenance. Because
-C does not have foreign exchange to purchase spare parts, repairs are
delayed resulting in frequent stoppages and maintenance backlogs.   The
southern Chimanimani mllls consist of stationary units originally designed
as light duty portable mills. These have proven unsuitable for continuous
operation due to frequent breakdowns. These mills do not have kilns, and
sawn timber is air dried in the open, often resulting in poor quality timber.
3.12      All pine sawn timber is transferred from the mills to a depot in
Mutare; dry from the northern mills and semi-dry or green from the southern
mills. The depot is the center for sorting, grading, manufacturing and
marketing timber. The manufacturing facilities, which account for about 251
of the total timber produced, are limited to lamination, finger jointing,
planing, and box making. Constraints result in inefficient transportation
of timber from the mills. Log harvesting and extraction operations are also
hampered by insufficient harvesting and log transport equipment.
3.13      The Research Division, headquartered in Harare, is headed by a
manager, who is assisted by nine research staff and six technical staff
(excluding four researcher posts and four technical staff posts which are
vacant). The division has four research stations; three have managers and
two have only one technical staff each. One of the division's main problems
is lack of qualified research and technical staff.   The division's past
research activities have been mainly directed at conuercial forestry. Little
work has been done in social forestry or agroforestry, which limits the
development of rural afforestation in the CAs.   Present policy is to
reorientate the Research Division's work more to social forestry issues.
Bilateral assistance is being provided by various donors for specific
activities, including trials on fast growing species such as C suarina, and
on Acacia and saws indigenous species. However, coordination and continuity
has been lacking and there is a need to develop a better defined program in
order to provide extension with better and more diversified afforestation
technology. It will require some time before the division develops workable
technical packages for the different ecological regions of the country.



- 17 -
Thus, at negotiations, assurances were obtained that PC would develop a
research program covering its 1991, 1992 and 1993 financial ears and submit
it to the Bank by not later than December 31, 1990  for rev.-    and comments
[para 8.01(ii)].
3.14      FC operates a forestry school, the Zimbabwe Forest College (ZFC),
near Mutare which provides a two-year diploma course and a one-year ranger
certificate course. It also provides Jn-service refresher and short-term
training to the staff of PC, AGRITEX and other organizations involved in
forestry extension or related activities.   The ZFC has the necessary
facilities for teaching and boarding about 50 students, but its present
intake is only about 40 students per year for the two courses because of a
shortage of teaching staff. The ZFC has an approved faculty of 12 lecturers,
but currently the teaching staff number is only seven, excluding the
principal. They are supported, when possible, by part-time lecturers. Only
the principal and one lecturer have degrees in agriculture; the remaining
faculty are diploma holders from the same college.  Because of this, the
quality of teaching is not up to the required standard. The upgrading of
staff qualifications is required so that students leaving the college may
better support PC development efforts.  PC has embarked on a program to
strengthen ZFC through bilateral assistance from Italian Aid and CIDA.
3.15      Apart from the divisions mentioned above, PC also has a number of
other support units located at its head office.   These units includes
Finance, Administration and Personnel, Corporate Planning and Statistics,
office of Chief Engineer, Internal Audit, Public Relations, and Marketing.
These units support the work of the operational divisions. The Personnel
unit is also responsible for training programs and manpower needs, and as
such is responsible for ZFC.
3.16      Financial Matters.  PC is financed out of its earnings and by
annual advances from the Government based on a program of work submitted to
Government each financial year as required by the Forest Act. In making its
submission, a clear distinction is drawn between expenditures related to
commercial activities and government-directed activities. For commercial
activities, the Government currently makes loans to PC at an interest rate
of 9.75Z which is also the Government's prevailing lending rate to all
revenue earning parastatal organizations.   Since 1983 the Government has
provided a grant to PC for carrying out government-directed activities.
3.17      FC's commercial operations have been yielding profits since 1983.
Annexes 2 and 3 present the financial statements related to FC's commercial
operations.   These data show that FC's financial situation continues to
improve. As of June 30, 1989, PC had net earnings of Z$3.4 million or a
26.8Z return on capital and a return on assets of about 3.52. However, the
plantation estates which are the main assets of PC are valued at historical
costs which present a distorted picture of the assets position. In keeping
with industry practice, PC should revalue its assets and liabilities
periodically, at least once every three years. The first such revaluation
should be completed by June 1991 and its results included in PC's 1991192
accounts. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations [para
8.01(iii)J.



- 18 ,
3.18      Financial projections for the project have been made on the
assumption that FC's outstanding debt to Government for non-commercial
activities (para 3.19) would be treated as non-redeemable and interest free
during the project period. On this basis PC would operate without cashflow
problems and earn acceptable profits from its covaercial operations. FC is
projected to earn An average of 5.2 percent on net assets, and 17.3 percent
on capital by 1994, which should be considered adequate for a wood processing
company in Africa. Its capitallasset ratio is expected to increase from 11.9
perr.ent in 1988 to 31.4 percent in 1994. The capital base would continue to
be reinforced with retained earnings.
3.19      Although FC is 100Z owned by GOZ,  funds advanced to it by
Government for initial plantation development have been provided in the form
cf loans. As of June 30, 1989, the outstanding principal and accumulated
interest were about Z$50.0 million. While PC has not repaid any part of this
debt, its repayment could cause cashflow problems which in turn could inhibit
its developmental and operational plans. Consequently, until this debt is
waived by Government, the cashflow of FC would be considered weak. PC has
repeatedly requested Government to waive the loans and the  accumulated
interest in order to improve its cashflow position. 'While the Government
acknowledged the potentially adverse impact of its past policies on FC's
financial structure, it indicated that it would like to address this issue
in the context of a financial exercise being carried out for all of its
revenue earning parastatal organizations. At negotiations, the Government
declared its intention to complete the financial restructuring of all such
entities including PC by October 1, 1990. An assurance was obtained from
Government that by October 1, 1990, IC's outstanding debt to Government would
have been converted into equity [para 8.01 (iv)).   An assurance was also
obtained that the Government would fully reimburse PC for all government-
directed activities [pars 8.01(v)].
B. Other Institutions
3.20      Apart from PC, there are a number of other government and non-
government institutions supporting forestry development. The relevant ones
are discussed below.
3.21      Natural Resources Board.  The Natural Resources Boar4 (NRB) was
established under the Natural Resources Act with the power to implement
government policies on natural resources management, including the monitoring
of environmental quality. NRB has 12 members and meets three to four times
a year. It has eight subject subcommittees and, at the local level, there
are 202 conservation committees. The Department of Natural Resources (DNR)
serves as NRB's secretariat and is used to implement the mandate of NRB. DNR
has the responsibility of enlisting the support of other government
departments and agencies, and working with other provincial authorities and
the public to conserve and ennance environmental quality. It has branches
in all eight provinces with extension officers and land inspectors charged
with promoting en-ironmental awareness, soil conservation, and forest
management. In practice, the impact of DNR is limited because of operational
constraints particularly staffing, transportation, and funding.



- 19 -
3.22      A6RITEX.  The Department of Agricultural Technical and Extension
Services is the major institution which is dealing with agricultural
extension in the CAs.   At the field level,  the District Agricultural
Extension Officers oversee the Agricultural Supervisors, who in turn are in
charge of the Agricultural Extension Workers (AEW). There are at present
about 1,500 AEWs in the field, giving a ratio of one AEW to 540 farm
families. The extension staff are generalists who work with the technical
backing of subject matter specialists. The FAs of FC have been cooperating
with the AEWs in the field in promoting afforestation under the RAP. The
AhWs have been motivating the rural communities to plant trees on an ad hoc
basis. Their main objective being agricultural development, they have been
placing emphasis on agriculture. With the support of the PAs, however, the
afforestation program has been advantageously complemented in the CAs.
3.23      Schools.   The primary and secondary schools in Zimbabwe are
operated either privately or by the Government.   Normally, primary and
secondary schools have an area of 9 ha and 24 ha of land, respectively, and
all have access to adequate quantities of clean water. Schools have become
an important vehicle for extension.   Under the RAP, many schools have
participated by operating: nurseries and planting woodlots.   The nearly
complete attendance of school age children and the availability of land and
water, put the schools in a prominent position in supporting rural
afforestation activities and for building awareness of the importance for
tree planting and conservation.
3.24      Others. There are also a number of government and non-governmental
institutions which participate in promoting tree planting. The Ministry of
Community and Cooperative Development and Women's Affairs is responsible for
mobilizing women to participate,in local development. There are one or more
women's groups per village in the rural areas. The Ministry of Youth and
Culture is also involved in youth development. Youths are usually grouped
into youth clubs which generally can be found in each village. Some of the
women's groups and youth clubs are involved in tree planting under RAP and
are expected to become important participants in producing seedlings and
developing woodlots in the future. The Environmental Development Activities
(tWNA) runs an indigenous tree management project based on the principle that
traditional woodland management techniques do exist, but need improvement.
ENDA is operating at the village level.



- 20 -
IV. TUE PR0,SCT
A. Proiect Rationaleland Obiectives
4.01      Rationale.  The area of forests and the quality of forest cover
have been declining in Zimbabwe due to increased conversicv of forest land
into agriculture, overgrazing, forest fires, and increased extraction of wood
for fuel and construction. This situation is more noticeable in the CAs,
which generally have high population densities and growth rates, poor soils,
and low rainfall. In the more densely populated CAh, there is already a
scarcity of wood, with the result that fuelwood gathering has become costly
and time-consuming. The situation is likely to worsen in the future unless
effective woodland management techniques are implemented in the CAs soon.
4.02      As a result, most of the CAs in Zimbabwe will become deficient in
fuelwood unless deforestation is halted.  The loss of forest cover could
result in high fuel costs ro the inhabitants and possibly a diversion of
manure and crop residues to use as fuel, thus depriving soils of much needed
organic input. This problem would be minimized by improved management of
indigenous woodlands.  Planting of fast-growing species would also be an
appropriate approach to increasing the supply of fuelwood to rural people and
relieving pressure on the natural vegetation.
4.03      Uncontrolled deforestation  in CAs could result in a general
degradation of the environment with the far-reaching consequences of soil
erosion, siltation of rivers and reservoirs, and reductions in wildlife
populations if appropriate conservation measures are not implemented.
According to the National Conservation Strategy, more than three million ha
of land are already classified as severely eroded. In most CAs, the wildlife
population has been significantly reduced, particularly large mammals,
because of loss tf habitat and uncontrolled hunting.   In many CAs, the
benefits to the population from wildlife are being lost.
4.04      Government actions in the past have neglected the development
requirements of the CAs, and have concentrated on industrial plantations and
on protection of forests and wildlife in the national parks and on State
forest reserves. Only since the country's independence in 1980 have the
balanced development needs of the CAs been addressed. It was only in 1983,
with the implementation of the RAP, that afforestation of the CAs was
seriously addressed by strengthening and re-organizing PC to include
afforestation as one of its main tasks. The GOZ is aware of the dangers of
environmental degradation in the CAs and has adopted a clear policy towards
conservation of natural resources and the rehabilitation of those already
degraded. In the future, more of the development efforts are expected to be
directed towards the conservation and improvement of the environment.
4.05      Proiect Obiectives.   The project has three objectives:   Ci)
conserving forests and the environmeAt as well as increasing the production
of wood for fuel and construction purposes by promoting tree planting and
woodland management in the CAs, not only of exotic species, but also of
indigenous species; (ii) improving forest grazing and wildlife management;



21 -
and (iii) improving the productivity and quality of the wood-processing
industry by upgrading the logging, extraction, sawmilling and manufacturing
facilities and operations.
B. Proiect Descrition
4.06      The proposed project would have three components:   (iM  rural
forestry, by financing the expansion of the first pilot phase in rural
afforestation to all provinces, su-pporting agroforestry development and
woodland management, and strengthening FC's institutional capacity through
staff training, studies, technical assistance and equipment; (ii) wildlife
and forest grazing management by financing participatory wildlife management
and preparing a forest grazing schemet and  (iii)  commercial forestry
development, by financing expansion and rehabilitation of PC sawmills.
C. Detailed Features
Rural Forestry
4.07      Rural Afforestation. This sub-component would build on the lessons
learned from RAP and further efforts to increase the planting and management
of trees by groups and individuals in CAs. It would expand activities to
include all wood deficit areas of the country and broaden the scope of the
first phase to encourage planting of indigenous as well as exotic trees and
greater integration of trees into farming systems.   It would further
strengthen FC to carry out an expanded program but would intensify extension
efforts by making use of other government agencies and NGOs.   Rural
afforestation activities would includes
Si)     Technical and in-kind support for the establishment of about
1,030 small-scale satellite' nurseries by target groups and
the production of about 11.8 million seedlings for use by the
groups;
(ii)    Continued operation of 69 central nurseries established under
RAP and establishment of ten new PC nurseries for production
and distribution of 20.8 million seedlings;
(iii)   Decentralized afforestation with emphasis on individual tree
farming on arable lands and around homestead compounds,
boundary planting, windbreaks through district councils,
school programs and other local initiatives;
Uiv)    Rehabilitation and improved management of 790 ha of old
woodlots now under the management of District Councils;
(v)     Testing of tree species (including indigenous species) with
potential for agroforestry and development and on-farm testing
of suitable agroforestry models;



- 22 -
(vi)    Technical support and training for other agencies capable of
assisting with forestry extension, principally AGRITEX, the
Ministry of Education, the Departmqnt of Natural Resources,
and NGOs;
(vii)   Production of extension and training material;
(viii)  Institutional strengthening of FC through in-service training
of staff and technical assistance in monitoring and
evaluation; and
(ix)    Socio-economic and resource studies.
4.08      The project would intensify activities undertaken in RAP in six of
the eight provinces. The number of districts covered would be increased from
the current 32 to 42.
4.09      Efforts would be made to increase the production of seedlings in
village- or school-based satellite nurseries.  A target would be set to
establish 1,030 new nurseries over a seven-year period producing a total of
11.8 million seedlings. The proportion of groups other than schools would
be increased from 40 percent to 70 percent by the end of the project period.
In-kind assistance through the Support Fund (see para. 4.15 ) would be given
to groups starting nurseries for the first time. This would include fencing
material, watering cans, polyethylene bags, seed and insecticide. Technical
advice would be provided, largely through AGRITEX extension workers.
Seedling production would be according to individual group demands and would
Include fruit trees, fodder species and indigenous species as well as
eucalyptus for fuelwood and pole production.
4.10      The central nurseries operated by FC would fulfill the demand for
seedlings by groups and individuals who lack the capacity to establish
nurseries.   The 69 i -series established during RAP would remain  in
production and 10 new nurseries would be established in districts newly
entering the project. Production would be on the basis of estimated demand
with a reduction in the numbers of eucalyptus raised in favor of fruit,
fodder and amenity trees and proven indigenous species. A total of 20.8
million seedlings would be produced over the project period. Civil works at
each new central nursery would include an office and store, a water tank,
water pump installation, a toilet and fencing.   Materials used in the
production of seedlings would include polyethylene bags, seeds, cuttings,
scions of selected fruit trees, inse:ticides and rooting hormones. Seedlings
would be sold at a subsidized rate for new areas entering the project for a
maximum of three years but would otherwise be sold at cost.
4.11      Individual  and  group woodlot  establishment would  remain  an
important component of the project. Seedlings would be provided from both
central and satellite nurseries.   The species planted would depend on
farmers' and beneficiaries' wishes and would include eucalyptus, neem,
Acacia, Sesbania, Gliricidia, pine, indigenous species, and fruit trees.
Schools would generally establish woodlots on their own land, while village
groups would normally use a portion of the communal grazing land. Eroded



- 23 -
gullies identified by DNR inspectors would also be used. Indivldual woodlot;
would be established on retired arable land. Activities would include site
cultivation using animal-drawn plows, planting and weeding. Fencing would
also be needed to protect against livestock damage and posts and wire would
be provided for priority cases through the Support Pund.
4.12      Responsibility for about 790 ha of the estimated 4,000 ha of old
District Council woodlots would be transferred to Village Development
Committees  (VIDCOS),  rehabilitated  and  with  improved  managemeat.
Rehabilitation work would entail "clinical" harvesting to improve the stem
form and replanting where stocking was insufficient.   A fence would be
erected to protect newly planted seedlings and regenerating coppice. Inputs
would be provided by the Support Fund, including one bow saw per woodlot and
barbed wire fencing. However, support for District Council woodlots would
be contingent on effective transfer of the woodlots to VIDCOS.
4.13      Over the project period, some 9.8 million tree seedlings would be
available for planting on fams and around homestead compounds. This would
generally be undertaken by individuals. Seedlings would be provided at cost
in RAP areas. Extension messages would aim to increase appreciation of the
possibilities for farm tree planting and to inform farmers about how to
obtain seedlings. Training of farmers would include planting, maintenance
and protection of trees.   Special attention would have to be given to
protection, as in most cases seedlings would not be fenced.
4.14      The  development  of  agroforestry  models  would  include  the
continuation of species screening trials, the collection of information on
existing indigenous systems and, by the fourth year of the project, the
initiation of on-farm trials. There would be close cooperation between the
Forest Research Division and SFD in this activity.
4.15      A fund to provide in-kind support to encourage activities in areas
not previously covered by the project would be available. It would be used
mainly to provide material for the establishment and operation of satellite
nurseries and the protection of group woodlots. The total amount budgeted
is Z$3.4 million over the seven-year per.od.
4.16      Motivation and extension activities needed to stimulate increased
community participation would include the development of messages for use by
AGRITEX workers and other extension agents, preparation of publicity material
(including posters, films and radio programs), organization of field days,
coordination of National Tree Planting Day activities, and training and
visits carried out by the extension agents.
4.17      Improved monitoring and evaluation would be necessary to evaluate
the effectiveness of the project in complying with Zimbabwe's environmental
laws, meeting its objectives of environmental conservation, and achieving its
targets, as well as for compiling and auditing information about the
project's physical achievements. To improve its effectiveness, the Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be strengthened with additional staff
and an expert in monitoring and evaluation would be engaged for two years
under technical assistance.



- 24 -
4.18      A series of related studies to improve the planning of rural
forestry activities would be carried out. These would include a baseline
survey to determine wood usage, and attitudes to tree management and v4anting
in the CAs, a survey of the availability, growth and loss of tree resources
in CAs, a study examining social and economic differentiation, division of
labor and decision-making processes with regard to forestry in the CAs, and
a socio-economic study of the role of women in rural forestry in Zimbabwe.
4.19      The project would increase the number of FAs, from its present
level of 33 to 45 to cover all the districts. An additional 10 DFOs would
also be provided by the project. Each FA would be provided with a motorcycle
to increase his mobility. The project would also provide administrative and
support staff, both at headquarters and at field offices, together with
housing and office space in the field.   Additional pick-ups and other
vehicles for transporting seedlings and material would also be included under
the project.  The project would also produce extension materials such as
booklets, posters and films, and would organize field days and competitions
among schools to promote the concept of tree planting. Three man-months of
technical assistance would also be provided.
4.20      Woodland Management Program.  Improved protection and management
of the existing woodland is the most cost effective intervention on the
supply side. It also enhances the productivity of the traditional fuelwood
resource with preferred fuelwood species. At the same time its preservation
is ecologically important. Only limited programs of woodland management have
been carried out in Zimbabwe, and details of management prescriptions need
to be verified for each woodland type. However, given the data on the stand
and stock characteristics from the biomass inventory and the potential
magnitude of the fuelwood deficit arising in some catcbment areas, it is felt
that a pilot management program can be implemented, at least on a trial
basis.
4.21      This pilot program would involve reserve forests in Masvingo
province to be managed by PC staff over the seven-year project period. It
would also provide for management of non-reserved woodlands by village
communities in Masvingo province. This latter system of management is new
in a formal sense though traditional integrated management of woodland
existed in some areas under the old tribal system.  It is important that
villagers be brought back into the management of woodland under the technical
guidance and regulatory control of FC. The pilot program would:
Mi)   bring under sustained yield management reserve forests and selected
village natural forest woodlots in Masvingo;
(ii)  increase the production of wood and other forest produce per unit
area in these woodlands while maintaining or enhancing their
environmental benefits and characteristics; and
(iii) set models for village participation in woodland rAnagement which
could be replicated elsewhere.
4.22      The sub-component would pave the way for wider application of a
woodland management concept throughout Zimbabwe. It would also draw from



- 25 -
the rocommendations of the forthcoming Tropical Forest Action Plan.
Technical assistance would be provided to assist FC in finding innovative
approaches to effective woodland management. The first year of the seven-
year project would be used to undertake essential planning, preliminary
staffing, and procurement for the pilot program.  Training of additional
professional and technical staff would be required during the course of the
project.
Wildlife and Forest Grkzina Manaxement
4.23    This component would develop a participatory wildlife management and
utilization scheme for the communities in villages adjacent to the two
critical areas of Bland Block and Tjolotjo Communal Area. It would seek to
stabilize and protect a group of state forests by creating 64,000 ha of
wildlife management buffer zones in two critical locations and develop models
for the involvement of as many as 600 families living in adjacent areas in
implementation and benefit sharing from an expanded PC safari and wildlife
management operation.  It would also aim to determine the feasibility of
implementing maraged cattle grazing within a forest reserve by people in
neighboring CAs. FC's wildlife capabilities would be expanded.
4.24      Wildlife Management. This sub-component would augment Government's
CAMPFIRE  program,  strengthen  PC's  capability  to  manage  an  enlarged
participatory wildlife management and utilization scheme, -and provide
assistance for the establishment of small-scale arts and crafts enterprises
oriented towards tourists. It would also includet
(a) in Eland Blocks
Mi)    incorporation of a 3,800 ha portion of the Eland Block of the
Mbembesi Resettlement Area into a buffer joining Mbembesi and
Jmgusa Forests;
(ii)   allocation of an 8,500 ha portion of the Mbembesi Forest as a
grazing area for the affected Bland Block commmities;
(iii) relocation of 12 families who have agreed to relocate to a site
closer to community facilities and who have been allocated more
fertile land, all in a manner consistent with Bank policies on
resettlement;
(iv)   construction of two watering points to serve both wildlife and
neighboring communities, and one watering point for the managed
grazing area;
(v)    setting up and advising Village Wildlife Cooperatives (VWCs)
as the legal bodies with which the PC would enter into
agreements in the five villages affected by the project; and
(vi)   a socioeconomic baseline survey and range management study.
(b) in Tjolotjo Communal Area:



- 26 -
(vii)  carrying out a detailed feasibility study of the proposed
scheme including the sensitization of the communities,
collection of more precise demographic data than is currently
available and agreement with the communities on appropriate
profit sharing arrangements;
(viii) construction of six watering points in the buffer zone to serve
the wildlife within the zone and community livestock; and
i
(ix)   setting up village-based groups to enter into profit sharing
arrangements.
4.25      Forestry Grazinn Manaaement.   The forest grazing sub-component
would improve the controllsustained management of the Mafungabusi Forest
(Gokwe District). This water catcbment area is important in the indigenous
forest conservation strategy of FC, but it is under severe pressure from the
bordering CA population and herds.   The proposed scheme would involve
financing the fencing of a specified portion of the threatened border into
a series of paddocks, in order to provide access to the forest for communal
animals under controlled  conditions.    However,  the necessary work  to
determine community involvement, develop a clear definition of affected
villages, expected costs and benefits, and environmental impact in the forest
areas remaining uncontrolled has not yet been done. Therefore, the proposed
project would finance a detailed study of the scheme, including baseline
study, socio-economic analysis of the scheme, and guidelines for its
operation.   The roles of all parties involved in implementing the scheme
would be clearly defined as part of the guidelines. This study report would
be submitted to the Bank for review and comments before a decision on the
nature of funding would be made.
Commercial Forestry Develonment
4.26      This component has two subcomponentss  PC sawmilling (Chimanimani
New Sawmill Complex and improvement of existing sawmills) and a Wood
Processing Enterprises Program for private firms in the wood processing
industry.
4.27      Chimanimani  New  Sawmill  Complex.   A  new  sawmill would  be
established by the project in Chimanimani to process some 101,000 m3 overbark
of sawlog per annum to produce about 43,000 m of sawn timber. PC would rely
on its own forest plantations for the supply of sawlogs to feed the new
sawmill. As shown in Table 2.2, FC would have available over 2,380 m3 of
sawlogs surplus after meeting its requirements for the new sawmill.   In
addition, FC would have an effective replanting program for its plantations.
This would ensure that even with future expansion programs, PC would continue
to meet its sawlog requirements from its own plantations.
4.28      The sawmill would comprise a two-line mill, one line to mill small
logs 15-25 cm top diameter and the other to handle lots& from 20-60 cm top
diameter. The small log line would be based in a circular double slabber as
the primary breakdown unit. This unit would be capable of accommodating a
gang set up to four saws when processing logs between 15 to 19 cm. Slabs
would be transferred to a circular slab resaw and cants would be transferred



- 27 -
to & circular gang saw suitable for saving up to 200 ma thick cants and
accommodating a gang cluster of up to six saws. Boards or battens from the
cant gang would be conveyed either directly to the cross transfer at the end
of the mill or to a two-saw edger for edging. Both the primary log double
slabber/circular gang and the secondary cant circular gang would operate with
preset saw clusters and thus would largely eliminate the operator error
inherent with adjustable saws.
4.29      The large 16g line would consist of two frame (sash gang) saws
operating in series. The log frame would be equipped with a log carriage on
which the operator would sit. The cant frame would have a powered infeed to
the feed roller. Slabs would be either automatically directed to the under
floor refuse system or along the sideboards to a cross transfer leading to
a second board edger from which slabs could be directed to the resaw. Square
edged boards or battens from the cant gang would go directly to the cross
transfer at the end of the mill. All boards and battens would be conveyed
via a cross transfer to a two-saw trimmer and hence to a green sorting chain.
Boards and battens would be sorted by cross-section and sticker stacked
directly off a green chain onto kiln bogies in even ended 6.6 or 2.7 meter
kiln loads. Transfer cars would convey the stickered stacks to interim green
storage either ahead of the kilns or in a tracked storage area adjacent to
the kilns.
4.30      Normal temperature dry kiln fire chambers would be provided for
drying the timber to a 142 moisture content. A dry timber shed would also
be provided. Heat would be provided by a 6-ton boiler as dry saturated steam
at 13 ata. The boiler would be fuelled by bark, sawdust and dry wood trim
with oil used for control. After kilning the sawntimber would stand in
cooling sheds until conveyed by transfer car to the dry mill unstacker.
Here, final end trimming would be done and the timber sorted to grade and
length and solid packed off a dry sorting chain. Solid packs of sawntimber
would be conveyed by overhead crane into storage and from storage to loading
for shipment to the Mutare Depot. All slabs and edgings in the sawmill would
be conveyed to a slab chipper from which the chips would be conveyed to a
silo either for sale or for use in the boiler.
4.31      Mill offices of 250 m2, stores and a maintenance shop for servicing
logging equipment, lo fing trucks and sawmill equipment would be provided for
in a building of 430 mi . Staff housing would be provided near the mill site.
Saw doctoring would be provided at a central saw doctoring unit located at
the Mutare depot site. A small saw filing and tooth setting facility would
be provided at the mill for simple sharpening of saw teeth and saw setting.
This would permit the touching up of saws and would reduce the frequency of
having to send saws to Mutare.
4.32      Construction would be of reinforced concrete and structural steel.
However, treated poles and sawnt$mber would be used where possible. Treated
pole construction has been envisaged for the kiln cooling area. The wood
preparation plant would be mainly outdoors and only small buildings at the
cross-cut saw and sorter scanner and control would be envisaged. The sawmill
would be a two-story building.   To reduce vibration, framesaws would be
mounted on large independent foundations of some 70 m3 each.



- 28 -
4.33      The project would finance equipment for logging operations in the
southern estates, consisting of 5 short-length logging trucks complete with
chassis-mounted hydraulic grapple cranes, 3 long-length logging trucks, 2-
wheeled loaders, 1 cable yarder, 2-wheeled skidders and 16 chainsaws, and
provision of five-year technical assistance for sawmill engineer and logging
expert and six months of technical assistance for engineering drawings and
preparation of bidding documents for the new sawmill. The project would also
finance the construction of a 12 km road linking the new sawmill and the main
truck road to Mutare.1 It would also support upgrading and maintenance of the
existing road, by providing 1 bulldozer (140 UP), 1 grader, 1 tipper truck,
1 water tank trailer and 1 lowbed tractor for transporting the bulldozer.
4.34      Imorovement of ExistinA Sawmills and Mutare Depot.  Improvements
to the current logging operations would also be carried out under the
project. Erin, Stapleford, Gwendingwe and Martin mills would benefit from
the provision of the following equipmentt
Erin     Staoleford  Gwendinawe   Martin
Logging truck, long length           1          1           2
Logging truck, short length          1          2           -          1
Skidder                              1          1           -          1
Cable crane                                     1           -           -
Skyline unit                                    1           -          -
Crawler skidder                                 1           -           -
Tractor with trailer                 -          -           2          2
Chain saws                          12         12          10          6
In addition, three tractor trailer units now operating in Muatare and Chisengu
forests would be transferred to Gwendingwe and Martin when the constrtuction
of the new mill is completed.
4.35     The project would also improve the operational performance of the
Erin sawmill by providing two additional kilns, together with equipment to
facilitate unstacking, grading and sorting of timber. In addition, a 900 m2
dry timber shed and a wood chipper would be provided under the project.
Likewise, Stapleford mill would be improved by enabling it to saw logs over
6 m long (the present limit is 4.5 m) and expand its resawing capability.
The project would also install the newly acquired framesaw and provide
debarking facilities, a 900 m2 dry timber shed, and slab chipping and chip
screening facilities to enable the mill to produce pulpwood chips. In the
Gwendingwe sawaill, the project would provide a new incinerator with related
waste disposal conveyors. The project would also rehabilitate the existing
circular sawmill and provide logging equipment to restore logging at the
present level at Martin Forest.
4.36     With the improvement of drying, sorting and handling timber in the
northern and southern mills, most of the problems faced by the Mutare depot
would be resolved. The current production of laminated and finger jointed
timber would be improved through the provision of new equipment.   In
addition, a saw doctoring and sawtipping center would be established in
Mutare to service all FC sawmills.



- 29 -
4.37     Wood  Processinx EnterDrises  Program.  There  is  potential  for
development of new small- and medium-scale enterprises in the wood processing
industry.  According to information obtained from the Timber Council and
Furniture Manufacturers Association (Trade Associations) and a sample of
private entrepreneurs, there is a need to assist private sector small- and
medium-scale enterprises in the wood processing industry with a foreign
exchange facility to purchase equipment, vehicles and spare parts. This is
in support of Government's objectives of improving the productivity and
efficiency of small-scale enterprises. Government has established a foreign
exchange loan facility in the Small Enterprise Development Corporation
(SEDCO) for this purpose. During negotiations, Government indicated that it
would implement measures to ensure that small- and medium-scale enterprises
in the wood processing industry have ample access to these facilities.
D. Prolect Costs
4.38     The total cost of the project,  including physical and price
contingencies, is estimated at Z$128.2 million (US$64.1 million equivalent),
with a foreign exchange component of US$38.2 million or 60S. Project base
costs have been estimated using March 1988 prices updated to July 1989
levels.  Costs include physical contingencies equal to 5? of base costs
except on civil works and sawmill machinery which have 10, and price
contingencies calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies.   The
costs were calculated using the following annual ratess on local costs ll.5?
for PYI and 11 thereafter; and on foreign costs, 3S for PYI, 3.5t for PY2
and 4? thereafter. Details of costs are given in Annex 1. Table 4.. below
summarizes the estimated costs.



- 30 -
Table 4.1 Project Cost Sunnnary
21t I 400)                 (Ult 'I)                    2 Totl
* -              ~~~~2 Vo#gt   lse
Local  Fowls  7ota        Local 1  fow*    Ttobl   £:d_m   Costs
Lagls inuuauw uTigf   Last  Foregnzu  a88          E=ua    uuu
A.RRM. VRSTh
1. MI.L EfStTll                                23s090.9 791".0   .234.? 11,545.4  W..0 1142.5             24       9
2. tOO.Oi  RIAEI                                 2.200.0    2.0  2eM.@  1,100.0   360.0 l.46.0            25       3
Sub-Toa RSL FORUM                                 21390.9 7s914.O  13.204.9 12,64A  3957.0 1602.5            24      31
3.  L3IR Me MFfli Gum  NWtWI
1. VILflE mUlI                                    947.4   79.7  1,747.1    473.7   39.9   073.6           46       2
2. ImT 9ZNS WNIT                                  16.4   251.2    447.S       ".2    2.6   223.8          56       0
__- -              ->         --_     -_ -_ 
STotl VILI  #A FVOMI    ZI NAMI                    1 .8 1W0V0.?  2WM9,7    571.9   S5.5  1J,07.3             48       2
C. CO 1II  FORIU       EELWI
1. IUPLLIIS: MN  lUL                            9.9724 6.WA  56.W.0  4936.*2 23425.3 2B3 .411.92                  54
2. NEWALITUTII                                    264.4 129.. I        .     1.3 6466.2 6534              It       13
8thTotal CUSNEM. FWSfTV EV. lT                    1O#W.0 * P.0 7l.t   Sp111*5  9A1RA5 3501O0                IIS     66
otal U IM CMlT                                      36,61.6 63747.9 M41UM6 1.t6335.61 4374t40 32s98            as5    10l
*9aical CmntiM                                     15*7.9 343,W     4#4XL      774.0 IN.  2441*.5           68       5
Pilce Contlnmncts                                 13 A2.6 4.299.4 1Vt912.0  4401.3 2449.? 1i11.0            24       17
- - - - - ~  
toal POECT COS                                      X1,.2 76,33243  2644 25.911.1 38191.2  4402.2              40     1.22
S.  Financing  ArLan&eents
4.39        The proposed financing plan for the project would be as follows:
Table 4.2: Finaucinl Plan
(US$ million)
Target
IBRD    BADEA          DANIDA    CIDA    GOZ            EC    Groups    Total
Foreign              11.2       9.4        6.8         0.8       2.8        7.2       -         38.2
Local                 3.3       -          2.6          0.2      4.0        7.8       7.0       24.9
Taxes                 -                                -         1.0        -         -          1.0
Total                14.5       9.4        9.4        1.0        7.8       15.0       7.0       64.1
m                   zX _ 
Percent              22.6    14.7         14.7         1.6       12.1       23.4       10.9    100.0



- 31 -
DANIDA has expressed interest in providing US$9.4 million in parallel
financing for the Rural Forestry component, which would cover part of the
costs of strengthening PC's institutional capacity and funding the rural
afforestation and woodland management programs.   CIDA has also expressed
interest in supporting the Wildlife and Forest Grazing Management component;
the CIDA contribution is treated as coordinated financing. BADEA has agreed
to provide US$9.'. million in parallel financing to cover part of the
equipment costs for FC's new sawmill. The Bank's contribution would amount
to US$14.5 million, or 23.61 of the total project costs, covering part of the
commercial forestry development component.   FC would contribute US$15.0
milliun towards the financing of its sawmilling operations. The Government
would contribute a total of US$7.8 million while the beneficiaries (Target
Groups) would contribute US$7.0 million, mainly in the form of labor.
4.40     The Bank Loan would be made to the Government under IBRD standard
terms. The Government would on-lend US$14.5 million to IC under a subsidiary
agreement. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government
and FC on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and the. effectiveness
of the loan agreement between the Government and BADEA are conditions of
effectiveness of the Bank Loan (para 8.02).
P. Procurement
4.41     The Forestry Commission would be responsible for the procurement of
all Bank financed items.   Civil works covering the sawmill structure,
logyard, twelve kilometer access road, and staff houses would be financed
under the project.   The civil works would be in isolated locations in
Chimanimani, and the cost of civil works is presented in piecemeal and is
relatively low. They are unlikely to be attractive to foreign contractors
and would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), following
procedures which were reviewed and found to be acceptable to the Bank.
Machinery, equipment and vehicles would be bulked to the maximum extent
possible and orders costing more than US$100,000 would be procured through
Interuational Competitive Bidding (ICB), according to Bank Guidelines, and
orders costing less than US$100,000 would be procured through LCB aggregating
to a maximum of US$300,000, following procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Foreign firms represented in Zimbabwe would be eligible to bid under LCB.
Consultancy contracts would be awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants, August 1981.   Bid documents and awards of any
contracts costing more than US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to prior
review and approval by the Bank.



- 32 -
Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Other Donor
Ice   LCI  Other   MA   Mithod       Toul
Civil Works                    S.?     -      -        -       0.?
(2,5)                          (2.6)
Goods                   9.8   9.8    -        -     P1073    20.8
(9.8)  (0.8)                          (9.6)
St*t Forestry ovetlop_*t                     6.8    Cl.!)    11.6
Consultaucl.s                         4.5                      4.6
(2.4)                    (2.4)
Recurrent Costs                             10.1 -0.1-
Totl                    9.8   9.0   4.6   18.4   C22.93    04.1
(9.8)  (2.8)  (2.4)                   (14.6)
Notess (1) Fiures In round prsotIws. ( ) r"preesetIIRD t lnnclng.
(2) Flowsu In rectngular peretiwos t I represent  imnuoloa
by other donors whoze procurement procdure would apply.
G. Disbursements
4.42     A special account would be set up at a comnercial bank in US dollarE
on terms acceptable to the Bank. The special account of US$600,000 would be
administered by PC and would be used to finance expenditures by PC relating
to its sawmilling operations. The Bank would, upon Loan effectiveness and
receipt of withdrawal applications, make advance deposits into these
accrunts. Disbursements would be made against full documentation except for
expenditures claimed against purchase orders and contracts below US$50,000,
which would be claimed under Statement of Expenditures (SOS) procedures.
Withdrawal applications for repleniohment of the special account would be
accompanied by a statement showing all transactions in the Special Account
for the relevant period.  Supporting documentation for the SOS should be
retained by PC and AFC for Bank review during supervision missions. The SOE
would be subject to a special audit each year.
4.43     The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed to finance 100 percent
of the foreign exchange cost of imported goods and of technical assistance,
and 70 percent of total costs of previously Imported goods in the country.
The project disbursement schedule is; shown in Annex 4. The estimated
disbursement profile for the proposed project is in line with the Bank
standard profile for Zimbabwe. Disbursements are expected to be closed by
June 30, 1998.
B. Accounts and Audits
4.44     FC would maintain separate project accounts in accordance with sound
and consistent accounting principles and practices. The project accounts and
related basic financial statements including SOE would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
appropriate auditing procedures consistently applied. FC would be required



- 33 -
to submit to the Bank within six months after the end of every fiscal year
during project implementation its audited accounts together with the
auditors' long form report and a separate opinion by the auditors in respect
of disbursements made on the basis of statements of expenditure. A separate
auditor's opinion would be required regarding the operations of the Special
Accounts.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the conditions
specified in this paragraph [para 8.0l(vi)].



- 34 -
V. PROJECT INPLDUI?A?ION
A. Organization and Manasement
5.01     Prolect Ortanization. The Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
would have overall responsibility for the project and the PC would implement
the project in collaboration with other institutions, particularly AGRITEX
and DNR for the Rural Afforestation and Wildlife and Forest Grazing
components.   A Project Coordination Committee (PCC)   established by the
Government under the RAP, in which eight Ministries and FC were represented,
has not functioned as was expected, mainly because its role vis-a-vis the FC
was not clearly defined.  The PCC understood that its deliberations were
mandatory, but the PC considered the PCC's role to be only advisory. Under
the proposed project, the PCC would be restructured and its role would be
limited to the implementation of the Rural Afforestation and Wildlife and
Forest Grizing ccaponents.   It would comprise representation from the
Ministries of Local Government, youths and culture; lands; agriculture and
rural resettlement, natural resources and tourism; community development and
cooperatives; and energy, water resources and development, with the Permanent
secretary of MNRT as the chairman and FC as the Secretariat. Its role would
be only advisory and would be to ensure conformity with government policies;
resolve problems that arise  during project implementation with  other
institutions and local authorities, and ensure the necessary support to the
project from individual members of the PCC. The PCC should meet semiannually
to discuss development proposals and the implementation progress, and to
resolve difficulties that might arise. Coordination at the p;:ovincial and
district levels would be undertaken under the existing local government
structures of the Development Committees, where most government institutions
and FC officers are represented.
5.02     Im2lementation ResDonsibilities.  The project would be implemented
by FC. The GM would have overall responsibility for project implementation,
and would be assisted by the managers of the State Forestry and Commercial
Forestry Divisions, and the heads of the supporting divisions. The monthly
meeting of all the heads of PC divisions, under the chairmanship of the GM,
would ensure cross divisional coordination. The GM would be assisted by a
small Project Unit consisting of an economist, an accountant and two clerks,
to be drawn from existing PC staff.  The Project Unit would consolidate
progress reports prepared by the implementing divisions, particularly project
accounts, and prepare Loan withdrawal applications.
5.03     The manager of the SPD would be responsible for planning, execution,
and supervision of the rural afforestation, and wildlife and forest grazing
management components together with the training aspects as they pertain to
the SFD. He would be assisted by senior staff who would prepare annual plans
and execute and supervise their respective tasks. The manager of the SFD
would be assisted by the planning, monitoring and evaluation unit, which
would undertake periodic monitoring and evaluation of SFD activities. In
implementing the rural afforestation component, the manager would maintain
close cooperation with AGRITEX and plan the training needs of extension staff
together with AGRITEX. Coordination between AGRITEX, DNR and PC would be



- 35 -
formalized at the province level, where the PFO and the Provincial Head of
A¢UITEX would plan and implement the actions required to promote rural
afforestation. The FAs would work closely with the extension workers of
AGRITEX, DNR and other institutions involved in rural extension work. They
would provide the necessary extension messages, extension material and also
establish nurseries and woodlots.  The FAs would also work directly with
farmers, groups and schools to achieve their targets of establishing
satellite nurseries, woodlots and agroforestry plots.  The SFD would also
secure the cooperation of AGRITEX in organizing beneficiary farmers under the
wildlife and forest grazing management component. In particular, cooperation
with AGRITEX is important with regard to grazing, where AGRITEX has
experience with grazing management in the CAs.
5.04     During the course of implementation, the pilot woodland management
program would investigate appropriate models for rural participation and
techniques for effective protection and management of woodland to produce not
only wood products but other forest products useful to local villages. At
the same time, the program would endeavor to establish gene conservation
areas for flora. Investigation would also be undertaken to understand the
effects of such management on the rural population including its social and
economic impact.  It would be determined at this pilot phase how best to
involve the rural population in woodland management and other related
activities which would be essential in designing a future national woodland
management program.
5.05      The implementation of the FC saumilling operation (commercial
forestry operation) would be undertaken by the manager of the Commercial
Forestry Division. The manager would be responsible for implementing all
aspects of this sub-component under the general supervision of the GM. The
Headquarters would provide the commercial division with accounting, marketing
and corporate planning services. The short-term training requirements of the
divisional staff would be provided by ZFC.
Loan Terms and Conditions
5.06     Project funds in support of PC sawmilling operations would be made
available to PC on terms and conditions to be defined in a subsidiary loan
agreement as specified in para 4.40. The conditions of lending were agreed
during negotiations and would be reflected in the subsidiary loan agreement
ipara 8.01 (vii)l. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and PC which is acceptable to the Bank is a condition of Loan
effectiveness (para 8.02(a). As a condition of disbursement, no expenditures
related to the sawmilling activities would be financed under the project
unless FC has procured and taken delivery of the sawmill equipment (saws, dry
mill and storage, mobile equipment, product transport and product depot) to
be financed under the BADEA Loan Agreement [para 8.03].
B. Role of Women
5.07      Eighty percent of the 4.4 million women in Zimbabwe live and work
in rural areas. As a result of out-migration of adult men to seek employment
in towns and mines, about 512 of the 800,000 farm families living in the



- 36 -
communal areas are female-headed. Women therefore bear a large burden of
the workload within the household unit.   They are responsible for the
household cores, including the time-consuming tasks of collecting fuelvood
and water and child-rearing, and they also do most of the physical labor
associated with crop production. This is exacerbated by the fact that, with
steadily increasing enrollment in schools, children are unable to contribute
much to household and farm chores. Overall, Zimbabwe women farmers produce
about 70Z of the crops and virtually all of the household energy
requirements.
5.08     The effective involvement of women in the proposed project is not
merely a question of equity. Women's participation is considered a necessary
condition for the success of the afforestation program because of their
crucial role in its implementation. It should also be seen in light of their
important role in promoting tree planting in the CAs under RAP. It is often
said in Zimbabwe that rural women are good planners, because they are forced
to constantly plan for their children's future. Tree planting, owning and
managing their woodlots are ways of planning for that future. The provision
that women own and manage their woodlots is expected to contribute
significantly to their motivation and effective involvement. Because women
comprise the majority of the population and have shown to be good agents for
tree promotion under the RAP, the proposed project has a good chance of
achieving its target.
5.09     Unlike some rural afforestation programs, where women are not
involved in the design and planning of the project, the proposed project
would involve them in making decisions regarding production, processing and
marketing of the produce as well.   To ensure women's participation and
involvement in project implementation as envisaged in project design, a
monitorable action program (Annex 6) stipulates guidelinee on mobilizing
women's groups (identification of women's groups already existing in the
project area, ways of forming groups in areas with no existing groups, and
a methodology for orientating and supporting these groups with regard to tree
planting activities) and training women's groups on nursery development and
woodlot management, etc. The project's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would,
among other things, devote its efforts to identifying special constraints
faced by women for quick management action. The monitorable action program
was agreed to at negotiations.   As in RAP, the proposed project would,
through the Ministry of Comunuity and Cooperative Development and Women's
Affairs (MCCDWA), mobilize women to participate in the implementation of all
aspects of the afforestation component.
C. Role of NGOs
5.10     The concept of NG0  comprises formal organizations as well as
informal groups in the coumunities. Both categories are envisaged to play
a significant role under the proposed project, the former as implementers of
small-scale projects and the latter as target groups for the rural
afforestation program as a whole.
5.11     The main formal NGOs operating in the country and involved in
forestry activities are anticipated to participate in the project. As each



- 37 -
and every organization has its own approach and each would operate on a
small-scale, their collective involvement would give scope for assessing
different approaches in different areas. The proposed project would provide
the NGOs with scope to pursue their individual approaches and gain experience
with different methodologies.   Since most NGOs operate on a small-scale
basis, the involvement would be limited to specific local areas and would not
be expected to cover the whole project area.
5.12     The contributtLon by formal NG0s has so far been mainly to provide
inputs in the form of fencing materials and seedlings for the communities
involved in woodlot projects.   It is proposed that N60s would be given
additional responsibilities in the fields of extension and training as well
as in the ongoing development of effective approaches to community
participation. Their activities should be monitored as part of the overall
M&E system, following the action program (Annex 6). Formal NGOs with a
strong community base like the Association of Women's Clubs and the national
Warmers' Association of Zimbabwe, Redd Bama and ENDA would also be encouraged
to take part in the rural afforestation program.
5.13     The involvement of the second category of NGOs, the informal
community groups, is the cornerstone of the rural afforestation program.
Taken together, these groups form the core of the target gro-zp of the
project. Individuals comprise another part of the target group, but in order
to secure a certain extent of dissemination in the local communities, it is
recommended that informal groups at the local level be the main entry points
in the extension services.   In some areas, groups are already existing,
whereas the formation of new groups may be required in others. The main
types of informal groups are farmers' groups, village groups, and youth
groups. In many cases, they start as informal groups and later become
formalized and join formal NGOs, e.g. AWC.
D. Annual Work Prosram
5.14     An annual work program would be prepared by PC which would serve as
an essential instrument for both project management and supervision by the
Bank and other parties.   The work program would include investment and
operating budgets and financing plan. It would be submitted to the Bank for
coument before December 31 of each year.  After review of the work plan by
Government, and taking into account the Bank's comuents, a revised work
program would be submitted for final review to the Bank by March 31.
Assurances to these effects were obtained at negotiations (para 8.01 (viii)].
E. Reoortinz and Monitorins
5.15     Reporting.  PC would prepare and submit to the Bank detailed annual
and semi-annual reports covering the physical implementation of the project,
financial statements together with the corporate budgets for the ensuing
year.   PC would submit to the Bank the annual progress report on the
performance of its monitorable action program and audited financial
statements referred to in para 4.44. In addition, PC would also prepare and



- 38 -
submit to the Bank a draft project completion report when the project is
closed.
5.16   Monitoring.  A mid-term project review would be essential. A major
review of overall project performance would be carried out by PC and its
findings submitted to the Bank not later than June 30, 1994, paying
particular attention to progress on involvement of women and other target
groups In project implementation.   PC would discuss the findings of the
review with the Bank and agree on an action program for the remainder of the
project period by not later than December 31, 1994. An agreement to this
effect was reached at negotiations (para 8.01 (ix)].
F. Environmental Impact
5.17     The  project  is  expected  to have  a  positive  impact  on  the
environment.  The afforestation programme, by promoting tree plantations,
would make available wood to the rural people, while the woodland management
scheme would result in reducing pressure on the natural forests.   The
increased number of trees in the landscape and slowing in the projected rate
of deforestation through effective woodland management would have a favorable
environmental impact in reducing wind speeds and the water runoff rate and
hence soil erosion. This would also slow the decline in soil fertility and
protect local reservoirs from siltation. In the longer term the development
of agroforestry systems and soil conservation on arable lands would be
specific goals. These would increase the potential of slowing environmental
degradation. A further environmental benefit would be increased shade around
housing compounds for both humans and livestock.
5.18     Zimbabwe has fairly comprehensive environment-related legislation
and adopted in April 1987, a National Conservation Strategy which outlines
the principles and objectives for halting environmental degradation,
particularly in the CAs. The strategy places emphasis on resources such as
arable and grazing lands, wildlife and national parks, forestry, energy,
genetic  diversity,  water,  minerals and lhuman populations.    The basic
principles and legal framework for managing the environment and natural
resources are contained in the Natural Resources Act and the Forestry Act,
which are broad in their coverage. However, the provisions of these Acts
have not been effectively enforced because of institutional weaknesses. The
project would strengthen the institutions responsible for environmental
monitoring, research, and conservation through staff training and technical
assistance. The monitoring of the project's environmental impact by NRB and
PC, and the required environmental impact analyses for all harvesting and
sawmilling activities, would assure project compliance with Zimbabwe's
environmental laws while contributing towards environmental conservation.
5.19     The design of the savmilling operation to be supported under the
preposed project has built-in measures to enhance environmental protection.
Timber is harvested from PC's plantations and the usual negative
environmental impacts of traditional forestry and forestry industry logging
practice in natural forestry are mitigated. The sawmill would reduce air
pollution by converting mill residues into chips rather than burning them.
In addition, improvements in the sammilling and waste handling designs and



- 39 -
the use of appropriate modern technology would result in improved workers'
safety. Furthermore, other firms within the industry would be required by
Government to incorporate appropriate environmental safeguards in their
operations. In evaluating a firm for support, the technical evaluation would
include analysis of the environmental impact of the firm's operation and the
steps to be taken to control pollution agents in accordance with acceptable
environmental guidelines, vmich would be provided to MRS and PC. During the
course of normal supervision, steps would be taken to ensure that NRB and PC
operate accor4ing to e4vironmentally sonnd nr.eitices. Where it is determined
that NRB and FC staff are not carrying out their monitoring functions
effectively, they would be required to take training on appropriate
environmental and health safeguards.



40-
VI. PRODUCTION  MHRimTS AND MC-ES
A. Production
6.01     Fuelvood and Fruits.  Eucalyptus and other suitable species would
be planted in woodlots belonging to the individuals, schools, target groups
and local authorities.   Tree farming would be carried out by individual
farmers and would Include planting fruit trees (mainly mangoes, avocadoes and
guavas). The total area that would be planted during the project period and
the wood and fruits that would be produced are sunmmarized below (Table 6.1)
Table 6.1:  uMar  of O.out& froo Wood and Frutt Production C"omonua
FuelwoodPoles            Ha       Annual        Average      Rotaion           Total output
l-*l         Annual        Period g       for One Rotation
AS,          ('son A)      ("ea)             ('n  as)
School Woodlot,          2,SW     6.1             16.4         2                 828.0
croup Woodlota           8,868    6.1             20.1         go                402.0
Individual Woodlota      1,068    6.2             6.1          20                182.6
Trmo Fermin              7.60       -             0.1          20                  2.0
(tra n oIlt1n)
Distriet CounIl WoWlot 647        8.7             2.6          20                 &L
Total Fuelwood/Poles                              45.2                           904.0
Tre. Farmitn Frut
Mango.s (million _se dlnge)       $.sW            0.67         20                 £5.
guavas (million seedling.)        1.7             0.8    U           20            C.00
Avocado.. (million seedlIngs)     1.76            o.a8         20                  5.68
I/ Rotation*is the pertod betwenn planting and replanting and has In general four cutting cycleo t S yearo  *eah.
6.02     Total fuelwood/poles production under the project would amount to
approximately 904 m3 million over a period of around 20 years.   Average
annual production of fuelvood and poles would be 45,200 m3 which would
represent less than 1 percent of one year's consumption at current levels
(about 13 m3 million) or about 3 percent of the current estimated annual
fuelwood deficit of about 1.7 m3 million. The project's output, although
not eliminating the deficit, would create conditions for alleviuting the fuel
crisis. In view of the current and growing shortage of fuelwood and poles
in the CA& where the woodlots would be established, no marketing problems are
foreseen. The bulk of wood and fruit production on farmers' woodlots would
be intended for subsistence consumption. Due to the lack of infrastructure
for alternative or cheaper sources of energy in most CAs, rural consumers of
fuelwood would remain dependent on fuelwood as the principal source of
energy. However, if prices were to rise substantially, so that fuelwood
collected free from woodlands would have even a higher opportunity cost (in
terms of possible sale), this would likely induce some switching to onfarm
fuels such as crop residues. Because of the relatively better infrastructure
for Alternative fuels (e.g. electricity, coal and kerosene) in most urban
centers, a substantial increase in fuelwood prices could provoke a switch to



- 41 -
such fuels; their demand can be considered relatively price elastic at
substantially higher prices.
6.03     Sawntimber.   At  full  development,  incremental  sawntimber and
woodpulp chips production would amount to about 53,700 m3 and 24,000 m3,
respectively. Nearly 80 percent of the incremental production of sawntimber
would come from the new Chimanimmni sawmill complex, while the rest would
come from the rehabilitated small mills. The product mix of Incremental
production would vary with market requirements, but would principally assume
the profile summarized in Table 6.2 below.
Table 6.2 Sunmarv of Incremental Sawntimber Product Nix and Prices
Product                 Annual Outvut      Share of Annual Output        istP-atory Price
(m /year)                (2)                        (Z$/m3)
Case Material             16,110                    30.0                      210.00
Crating Material            1,610                    3.0                      170.00
Structural Graded          9,130                    17.0                      405.00
Structural Ungraded       24,170                    45.0                      315.00
Clears                     2.680                     5.0                      470.00
Total Sawntimber           53.700                  100.0
Pulpwood Chips            24.000                   100.0                       28.00
6.04      The principal output of the project would be structural savntimber,
accounting for about 67 percent of total output. The demand for structural
grades is currently very strong and it is expected to remain so as a result
of the anticipated growth in the construction Industry in the country.
However, should market conditions dictate otherwise, the sawmills would be
designed with the flexibility to respond accordingly.   The presence or
absence of a market for pulpwood chips would be of no significance to the
viability of the proposed investments.
6.05      The project's output would be absorbed by the expanding domestic
market; no exports are envisaged. As a result of the project's output and
the sawmilling expansions planned by the private sector, the PC's market
share for soft sawntimber would decline marginally from 40.0 percent at
present to about 39.5 percent at the project's full development. The project
would thus enable FC to maintain its market strength and moderate the
oligopolistic tendencies of the industry.  The project's output would be
calculated on the most financially profitable products, namely structural
sawntimber (Table 6.2). The project's marketing strategy would continue to
be based on ex-mill sales. This is justified by the extensive and relatively
efficient network of private sawntimber traders at both the wholesale and
retail levels.



- 42 -
B. Prices
6.06      Fuelvood and Fruit Prices.  Everyone has free access to wood in
woodlands within CAs. The woodlands are owned in covmon and exploited under
conditions of unregulated individualistic competition within the respective
CAs. Each household regards the supply of fuelvood as largely unaffected by
its actions.  The individual household's consumption is not perceived to
diminish noticeably as the total woodland resource available to the comunnity
declines in the way that the consumption of a purely private good would.
However, the combined actions or use of all households have significant
effects on the sustainable consumption rate and, hence, on the amount of
fuelvood as a resource. Currently, individuals in CAs do not directly bear
the costs of forest depletiont instead, fuelwood production and control are
undertaken by the Governvent,  financed through tax revenues.   This is
undesirable because it continues to render credence to the notion of forests
being a comnon property, thus reinforcing forest depletion.  The project
would be the principal mechanism for making individuals in CAs bear the costs
of wood consumption and realize the benefits of private wood production and
control as is the practice of the CFAs.
6.07      Individuals and target groups producing wood for subsistence needs
would realize no monetary benefits from planting trees, but would save time
associated with wood collection. However, those planting wood as a cash crop
would realize cash incomes, particularly from the sale of poles which are
expected to fetch Z$100.0 per mi. Individuals and groups involved in fruit
tree farming would realize about Z$75.0, 2S50.0, and Z$150.0 for a ton of
mangoes, guavas and avocados, respectively.   Apart from the fresh fruit
market, there is a well established canning industry for these fruits in the
country.
6.08      Sawntimber Prices. Ex-factory prices for the project's output are
shown in Table 6.2. Due to the anticipated strong demand for sawntimber over
the next two decades, these prices are expected to prevail in the domestic
market. Any delay in or failure to install a chip processing capacity could
result in pulpwood chips having no local market. This, however, would only
marginally affect the profitability of the sawmilling program, since the
revenue from chip sales would account for less than 5 percent of total sales.
The project's sensitivity analysis indicates that such a minor change would
not jeopardize the sawmilling program's profitability (par& 7.09).



- 43 -
VTI. BENEFITS. JUS?IMiChTION AWP RISKS
A. Proiect Benefits
7.01      The direct benefits from the project vould be the production of
fuelwood, poles and fruit trees by individual farmers and target groups in
communal lands as well as incremental production of sawntimber by PC. The
project would provide for the production of fuelvood, poles and fruit trees
(namely. mangoes, avocados and guavas) from individual and communal woodlots
and plantations established by local authorities. A total of 7,000 hectares
of woodlots, producing approximately 904,000 =3 of fuelvood and poles, 7
million trees around homesteads of individuals, and 550 hectares of
rehabilitated woodlots belonging to the district councils vould be developed
under the project.  In addition, about 660,000 mango, 468,000 guava, and
545,000 avocado fruits would be produced from the project's tree farming
activities.     Total  incremental  production  of  sawntimber  would  be
approximately  53,700 m per annum at full development.  The project would
also provide about 10.5 million man-days of employment for laborers,
excluding labor required by smallholders for the establishment of woodlots
and tree farming.
7.02      The indirect benefits of the project would consist of environmental
conservation resulting from the establishment of woodlots, tree farming,
agroforestry, and wildlife management schemes. The establishment of woodlots
and tree farming vould help to control soil degradation due to erosion and
the exhaustion of nutrients in the planted areas. More importantly, the
project's wood production would reduce the depletion of the remaining
indigenous wood in communal areas where supplies of wood are declining and
access to alternatives is limited.   Agroforestry system schemes, to be
developed under the project, might provide a long-term solution to the
conflict engendered by the demands placed on land for agricultural production
and wood production and thereby might minimize the extent of land degradation
caused by excessive wood cutting in the CAs.   The project's wildlife
management and forest grazing management schemes would similarly (on a pilot
basis) provide a long-term solution to the land use conflict over
agricultural production, the forest resource, and the wildlife resource. The
project would also provide for strengthening FC's institutional capability
through staff training and measures to improve its financial and operational
performance. Due to the intangibility of these indirect benefits and because
of the pilot nature of the project's schemes, no attempt has been made to
include these benefits in the calculation of the economic rate of return for
the project.
B. Financial Returns
7.03      Financial returns on the proposed project have been calculated for
the incremental investment for the rural afforestation and commercial
forestry components. The calculation for rural afforestation is based on
individual hectare models of woodlots for fuelwood and poles which assume
1989 prices of Z$13.63 for fuelwood and Z$1.50 for 3 m poles.   The



- 44 -
calculation  for comuercial forestry  is based on the cashflow of the
Chimanimani New Sawmill which includes the initial annual capital
expenditure, a scheJule of reinvestment costs in mill and logging operations,
and the mill's operating costs and stream of benefits from 43,000 ms of
savnwood and 240,000 m3 of chips annually. It also includes the incremental
investment in improving the existing mills and the associated incremental
benefits.   Based on the above,  the financial rates of return on the
investments for each component and for the whole project over a 20-year
period are as follows:
Rural Afforestation                   16.3S
Commercial Forestry                   16.82
Whole Project                         16.62
Details on the project's financial costs and benefits are contained in Annex
9.   The relatively high financial rates of return indicate the project is
financially sound.
C. Economic Benefits and Costs
7.04      The valuation of fuelvood and poles presents a major problem for
the economic analysis of the project. The existing local market for these
forest resources is distorted.   The current price of fuelvood and poles
reflects the low private costs of clearing indigenous forests at present
rather than the considerable long-ternm costs of replacement, not to mention
environmental degradation. The main causes of deforestation in CA8 are land
clearance for agriculture and the use of fuelvood for energy. Strategies to
Increase wood supplies, including this project, would not on their own arrest
the deforestation of indigenous forests if there vere at the same time
substantial clearance of land for agricultural production in CAs. Under this
project, the farmer would integrate tree farming in his existing farming
system. A typical cropping pattern in Chs within Natural Region III (where
most CAs are found) consists of maize (0.4), cotton (0.2 he), groundnuts (0.2
ha), and sunflower (0.2 ha) (Bank Report No. 7446-ZIK) 2t. Thus tree farming
would be produced in combination with agricultural crops; this would be a
farm enterprise combination (diversification).
7.05    The opportunity cost of producing fuelwood and poles applicable to
this analysis has two elements: (a) the net direct cost (i.e., labor and
muaterials) to the farmer of producing wood in place of crops, mainly labor
savings associated with a reduction in time needed for wood collection; and
(b) the value of tree farming as reflected by the farmer's willingness to
forego the value of crop output, adjusted for subsidies and taxes to border
prices. To estimate the first element, it has been assumed that the labor
saved would be used for expanding crop production (para 7.06). The theory
of farm enterprise combination has been used to estimate the second element
of the opportunity cost of fuelwood and poles to be produced under the
2/Zimbabwe Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project, Staff
Appraisal Report, November 4, 1988 (Report No. 7446-ZIM), Agricultural
Operations Division, Southern Africa Department.



- 45 -
project. Accordingly, optimm land use and an optimum combination of farm
enterprises (i.e., tree farming and crop production) would be achieved then
the Marginal Value Products (MVPs) of all variable inputs (including land) 1I
used in the production of wood and crops are exactly equal to their
respective prices (costs) and, hence, the profits of wood and crop production
are simultaneously equal V1. Hence, the net economic value of wood produced
from one hectare of land can be approximated by the net value of crops
produced from one hectare of land. Annex 10, Table 4 presents the total
economic costs and benefits to society of a one hectare smallholder woodlot.
Annez 10, Table 5 presents annual one hectare budgets for various- crops.
Annez 10, Table 6 presents the present value (PV) of net benefits to one
hectare for a 20 year cropping system in a typical CA. Annex 10, Table 7
indicates that the replacement costs of tree planting are quite high and
their full recovery would require a stumpage rate of Z$37.0/solid m3. This
would be the long-term cost of replacing forests which are being cleared in
CAs. This implies that the existing low stumpage rates for indigenous wood
have a negative return on fuelwood and poles production in the country.
However, the stumpage rate that would equate the PV of net benefits of tree
farming to the PDV of net benefits of crop production under the existing
cropping system is Z$60.0solid m3. This is the economic value of wood to
be produced under the project.   The discount rate for natural resource
depletion In Zimbabwe is not known. A discount rate of 252 has been assumed
for this analysis. This is because depletion makes risk premiums very high
since it generates high time preference rates as the search to prevent
further degradation becomes more urgent. This implies that returns to tree
farming must be high if tree farming programs are to succeed in Africa and
-'sewhere in the developing countries. It should also be noted that both the
cropping system and the crop yields, upon which the net benefits in Annex 10,
Table 6, are based, can only be sustained if the existing environmental
balance in the CAs prevailed throughout the project period. This assumption
of "environmental balanceo underlies the sustained flow of net benefits shown
in Annex 10, Table 6 and reflects, to this extent, the environmental benefits
(externalities) of the project. In this sense, the estimated economic value
of wood of Z$60/m3 also reflects the environmental benefits of the project.
7.06     The opportunity cost of wood collection varies with the distance
travelled and time spent for wood collection. Recent studies in Zimbabwe
estimate the average time spent on collecting 0.1 m3 of wood to be 8
hours/week/household. Under existing typical cropping systems In CAs, the
average return to family labor per man-day is estimated at Z$4.56 (Bank
Report No. 744-ZIM).  Thus, the opportunity cost of wood collection time
would be Z$45.60/m3. Under the project, it is estimated that the labor saved
would be 6 hours/household/week. Thus, the opportunity cost of labor saved
by planting own trees would be Z$34.20/IO. This cost savings has been added
3/Although land would generally be fixed for the smallholder farm as a
whole, it would be variable between wood and crop production.
4/In an equilibrium state, the optimum amount of wood and crop outputs
would be achieved when MWP land - Price of land in wood production * MVP
land - Price of land in crop production and, hence, Profit wood - Profit
crops.



- 46 -
to the opportunity cost of planting trees discussed above. Hence, the total
opportunity cost of fuelvood produced under the project is Z$94.20/m3. This
is the opportunity cost of wood production in CAs at 1989 prices.
7.07      Under  a  free  trade  regime  and  without  foreign  exchange
restrictions, Zimbabwe would &enerally be a net importer of sawntimber and
other woodproducts. This is likely to remain the case for the foreseeable
future (para. 2.15).  For this reason, the project's output of saintimber
has been valued at c.i.f. prices. The fruits produced under the project have
been valued at their respective local market prices, which also reflect their
border values.                                     1
7.08      On the cost side the following assumptions have been made.
(a) Costs include physical contingencies; both costs and benefits are
in June 1989 prices.
(b) The foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued at the official
exchange rate since this reflects the purchasing power of the
Zimbabwean dollar vis-a-vis major currencies.
tc) An adjustment for taxes was made on all major inputs as all imports
are subject to duties.
(d) Project demand for labor will occur uniformly during the peak and
slack seasons and hence, unskilled labor was priced at 0.75 of the
official rural minimum wage to reflect the average return to family
labor per man-day (para. 7.05).
(e) The costs and benefits associated with the pilot schemes for
agroforestry, wildlife management and forest grazing management
were excluded from the calculation of the project's rate of return.
7.09      The rates of return for the whole project and its individual
components are as followst
Rate of Return (Z)  Switching       Values 5!
Costs        Benefits
Whole Project                  30                   83          -45
Sawmilling Program             30                   83          -45
Rural Afforestation Program   19                    48          -33
5/ Switching values at 12Z.



- 47 -
D. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
7.10     The whole project and its individual components would be less
sensitive to small changes in costs and benefits or the factors underlying
such changes as indicated by the switching values. The sawmilling program,
in particular, would be the least sensitive to such changes.   The rural
afforestation program would be relatively sensitive to such changes,
particularly te a change in the value (price) of fuelwood and poles. Such
change would occur if wood were valued in terms of its alternatives as a
source of energy in GAs. This is examined in the following paragraph.
7.11     The above rates of return indicate that rural afforestation can be
economically justified if it is horizontally integrated in existing crop
farming systems in CAs where deforestation is occurring primarily as a result
of land clearance for agriculture, rather than from collection of wood for
fuel and poles per se. Although the thrust of government policy in these
areas is to increase wood supplies through tree planting programs as proposed
under the project, the Government could also take supplementary measures to
substitute alternative fuels for wood.   The potential substitutes for
fuelwood  are  electricity,  coal  and  kerosene.    The  role  of  rural
electrification would be limited by the restricted nature of its distribution
network and the costs of extending it. Coal has attractive possibilities as
an alternative to wood because it is a cheap indigenous resource. However,
it can only be safely used in an appliance with a flue which would limit its
use in CAs. Kerosene, although relatively simple to use, is expensive. In
any case, access to these alteriatives by households in CAs would be limited
by the lack of cash incomes to buy them and their relatively high costs
(which would require existing fuelwood prices to rise substantially).
Nevertheless, for the purpose of sensitivity analysis, the project's output
of fuelwood and poles has been valued at the economic cost of sunplying the
same quantity of fuel (in energy equivalent units) through coal and kerosene.
The costs of equipment and conversion associated with the use of these
alternative fuels have not been included in their respective valuation; these
would make the equivalent values of wood higher than those indicated below.
The rates of return associ4ted with these alternative sources of energy are
summarized below:
Economic Rates of Return of the Afforestation Program
Associated with Alternative Fuels in CAs
Energy Source                  Economic Value       ERR Estimate
(Z$ISolid mJJ            (Z)
Tree Planting (Base Case)            94.2                19
Tree Planting (Cost Recove4y Case)  71.2                 16
Kerosene                            111.8                23
Coal                                 88.4                18
7.12      The  rates  of  return  associated with kerosene  and coal,  as
alternative sources of fuel, would be higher than those indicated if the cost
of equipment and conversions nectssary for -heir use within CAs were
included. Nevertheless the above rates indicate that the rural afforestation



_ 48 -
program would be even more justified if its output were to prevent a shift
to consumption of alternative fuels (coal and kerosene) in CGs. Zimbabwe's
policy to maintain fuelwood as the major traditional source of energy in CAs
is, therefore, economically sound, particularly when considered in the
context of alternative sources of rural energy. The program would equally
be justified if its output were valued to reflect the long-term costs of
replacing wood that is currently being cleared for Lgricultural production
in CAs.
7.13      The principal  risk of the project  lies  in the  response of
individual farmers and target groups who would be required to devote part of
their land and labor to produce wood, which is currently considered a free
coumon property" in Chs. Although experience during the implementation of
RAP indicated that tree planting is becoming popular among farmers in CAs,
close monitoring and review of rural afforestation activities under the
project would be essential. For this purpose, a monitorable action program
to continuously monitor the involvement of target groups has been designed
to permit changes or adjustments in implementation strategy. The Planning
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in FC would also be strengthened and a mid-
term review has been provided to enable project management to make major
adjustments and modifications 'after three years, if necessary.
.



- 49 -
VIII.   ES RRACIED AND lIOUS
8.01      At negotiations  agreements were reached with the Borrower on the
followingt
(1)    rC would review the stumpage fees annually and adjust
them to ensure that they remain at appropriate levels
(para 3.06);
(ii)   PC would develop a research program covering its 1991.
1992 and 1993 financial years and submit it to the Bank
by not later than December 31, 1990 for review and
comments (para 3.13);
(iii)  PC  would  revaluate  its  assets  and  liabilities
periodically, at least once every three years (par.
3.17);
(iv)   PC's outstanding debt to Government would be converted
into equity by October 1, 1990 (para 3.19);
Cv)    Government would undertake to fully reimburse PC for all
government-directed activities (par. 3.19);
(vi)   During the project period, the project accounts including
SOEs and PC's accounts as a whole would be audited by
auditors acceptable to the Bank (para 4.44);
(vii) The conditions of on-lending were agreed and would be
reflected in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
Government and PC (para 5.06);
(viii) PC would submit to the Bank its annual work program by
the end of December each year (para 5.14); and
(ix)   PC would prepare and submit a mid-term review to the Bank
by no later than June 30, 1994, and discuss it with the
Bank and agree on an action program for the remainder of
the project (para. 5.16).
8.02 Prior to Credit Effectiveness. The conditions of effectiveness aret
(a)    FC would sign a subsidiary loan agreement with the
Government which would be acceptable to the Bank (paras
4.40 and 5.06); and
(b)    The Loan Agreement between the Government and BADEA must
have been effective (para 4.40).



- 50 -
8.03 Condition of Disbursement. No disbursement would be made under the
Bank loan for sawmilling activities until FC has procured and taken delivery
of the sawmill equipment (saws, dry mill and storage, mobile equipment,
product transport and product depot) which are financed under the BADEA Loan
Agreement (para 5.06).
8.04      Under these assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
saitable for a Bank loan of US$14.5 million to Zimbabwe on standard Bank
terms, with 20 years maturity.
4            4~~~~~~~



- 51 -
Annex 1
Table 1
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Project Cost Summary
(nNl   000)                 (135  Qt)                   I Toa
I Foftifm kws
Local  Foatui    Tot       Local  Fortion  Tot    LX&OM    cots
-#z um __ -_ 8stw *sss zmaz
A. hUAL fSRWII
1. IU       WWTATII                              23s00.9  7,194.0 30,214.9 1154.4 37.0  15.5                 2       29
2. VO OLAI HIAMIT                                 24200.0   720.0  2.M200  t110.0   360.0  1460.0            25       3
Sub-Tol   L FORESrt                                 2520.9  ?914.@ 3un 04.9 122645.4 3i99l.0 16602.5            24      1t
D. VILIFE AI  FOREST WAlRUS INEENTl
1. MILDIUE INAEjINT                                 947.4   799.7  1u747.1    473.7   399.9       3.*6       46       2
2. fCIS  GRAMi  N ET                                196.4   251.2    447.5      93.2   1206   2234           5        0
Sub-Total         ANIJLDFt DS FRES? W6=23B  N SNTW   14.438 i.m.9 W J   19 .7    571.9   S25.5 1,097.3          48       2
C. CMONM      fOmESlT DEWWELNT
to SAILLWS: No NILL                               t992.4 46450.*6 5,823.0  4,936.2 232421.3 23,411.5         82       54
2. REHILUATIU                                       264.6 12922.4  13,197.0    12.3 6.466.2 65*9S.5          9        U
Is-WTol cmN^  fCifTS Wa.WKN                         10,237.0 59e733.0 70,020.0  5111.S 29.391.S 35010.0        85      6A
TotAl  .UE COMST                                      36,671.4 U0,747.9 101.4194  It3A  34.374.0 S22709*8         65      100
ft_ical CWUtlAuclus                                 1,547.9 39330  4,832.9    774*.0 1447.5 2,441.5             J3       5
Pilg CtAinr us                                     13,l624  4,299.4 17.s92M0  63t01.3 2.t141? 3s1.0            24       17
Totl PROJECt COST                                     51022.2 7693§2.3 132204.5  259n. 1,191.*2 64U102.2          60      122
----_- -_ -_
.



Annex 1
Table 2
Zlmbabwe
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Component Cost Sumiary By Year
TOtls tlai"ld c4tJaif                                            Totals Ireludu   mtiatu
(in  s voi)                                                        Iu  1003
19      IM9      12    193    1W4   19M         16    tl            9m     199    1992   1n93   1"4   19          9      To
U2U uuU38  zaUauuZu        gU3323MUauum. Xs=  xu.vsua  wo== .ans.  uXza  823  8=8mm 9==s !s=*a" u:5252
1.  _       St *TIU                             5%P321*.  5,372.7 5.52.7  *406.4  6t6.3 7,136.5 6,96.4  44,251.9  2,910.  2,66.4 2,776.4 3,203.2 3,49.2 3*5662 3,432.7 22125.9
2. tM     m        T                             2,63.6   264.1   24.0           -       -       -      -  3,236.7  1,34.3   132.1  137.4         -       -      -       -  1613.4
9tobuL     F3111                                    3,520.4 5t66.  S,12.1  6406#.  6P.993 7.3.! 6,9654  4W1.6  4,210.2 *2,31.4 2.91.34 3203.2 3,429.2 3               36.2 3.432.? 23,764.3
IL UOTRF AO FEIT MM=11 UWENI
Is. ULIFI        3T                                441.03   461.    345.o   434.5   235  16*2   134.5  2PU2.           220.?   230,9  172.5  217.3  166.7   34.1   92.2  1.164.
2. R10i  U1UI    M J                               to1  114.1    31lo.0    42.4    93.5   75.4        -      7.       73.1    57.0    0.5   21.2   4.2    7.           -   m27
otA       l 3 V  MD FO1 iZIu  WAEET                   37.S   57S.9   426.0   476.9   31.9  263.6   14    2,6.2            M37   287.9  213.0  233.4  196.0  121.6   92.2 1,43.1 
co COO    f_llt    T uz
i. IELLIU   £3 mu                                O4939 14v266.6  6,112.S   248.3   23.7          -      - UP.3      2,470.0 7,143.3 306.3  124.4  1`294          -       - 30.923,3
2. E ItAUtU                                            -        -       - 191440.  6333.3        -      - 15,933.1         -       -       - 45724 3,419.1        -      - 7m.*6
M-TO1 al UIEKIU. 0imUt 3.IEt                       40.9 14.21.16 6.112.5  99.6 77.0                -       - 7782.7 23470.0  7143 3.056.3 496.8 3548.5              -       - 39149
ta       Ct iM                                       5,047.3 2499.3 12*315.3 16s276.9 1O5.3 7,330.0 7149.9 13#224.5  25,823.9 10,249.7 6812.6 3*13.5 7242.6 3690.0 3,574.9 6e102.2
us _am. .U223*t ..um.m. _                          m.... au.aum _    amums          88.9. M     "nou... m_a *11.          sua



- 53 -
Annex I
Porest Resources ba"gemet and Development Project
Account Cost SuD>ry
1Z3 *SO)                   o o    )                     a)r
- I
1-4                 Foroio       ;*ml~     Fopm    os
Lu)  e?1   Toa        Lox l  FoqiF   TotAl   £0          C
a.     115.o  1.0.1  .m3                                            99.   5tl.1   63.           SS       1
*. cmI  ws
1. 0 5 831                            206.2    l8.4   2".6   103.1    44.2   147.3           30       0
2. 9A1 1I        S 1 3                 3t9.9t  145.7   44.5   10.9    ?2.3   242.8           s0       0
i. COBWIitt- is                        99.8    4.3    142.5    49.9    21.4    71.3          30       0
4. CWiUgCnr -0 TAo                    253.30M1   18.8    2.     126.9    54.4   14.1         30       0
5. 69317s3  F t  S0         J          MA7.0   413.0    510.0    19.5   206.    95.0         70       1
s .tILITU   W          To5   0         87.6   20A.4   292.0    43.8   102.2   146.0          70       0
7. 1W3     S9L                       O544 3.610.6  5.13.0    773.? t1.es.3 2,579.0           70       5
SwwTot1 CVIL  52.71.6 46 )3.6  7.35.2  1.*35.8 2,.306.8 3462.6                                  a        7
C. 1E411 1SS135t7                            - 11006.3  1,06.8          - S3.   503.4          1M 
0. Gu . EW 5                           2.015.0 2.779.0  4.79.0  1.00?.  1$389.0 2,396.5         se       5
E. IJUMIUCIE                           6.410.0 4hS90.0 11300.0  J.205.0 2.4f.0 5,61.0           43      it
f. Wmr #A Eguwi
1. WMTCE El                               -   230.9    2.9          -   115.5   11S.5       100       0
2- I1Wi.          "                       - 47.207.0 67.287.0       - 23UAW3. 23,643.5       10      45
l-WTota  YEIR  MS  E7MS9 - 47.5)7.9 47.5).9                              23059.o 23,759.0      100      ff
S. 3   "05.9      6 FM                  .2v0.0          2t.1.      100.0 -        11006.0        -       2
Total 3      1IM 13,527. 61, 4  5.o4)0  6743.944.237,70.0                                         s2       ?2
tt. U0I  02311
It.  urn     urnMinm
1.                                  3..0  2.062.0  5410.0   1         100.5   30.0 2,577.5   o       5
2. 1311                               34.2    22.8    57.0    17.1    11.4    2s.           4        0 
ot )    n 3 to                1       31027.: 208   5.212.0  1,56.  1,4.  2,606.0              4        2
*. 91s61s                          2.017.8       -  :.St).     -0 1.0AS                      -       2
2.6953. 1511 iS 139. t1@431.?                    -1431.?    7154                7t5.s        -
Sd-Total 11.60)591 I.13               3.s4          -  3 ,44.5  1,724.7          .724.7                 3
C.  1m311       *I .409.5  M1O12.4  S5,51.8  2,20.7   31.2 2075.9                              20       5
0. la  30101
1. WST FM                           1446.6   411.6  2dSL2    823.3   205.$ 1 .1             20       2
2. LA3                              3.396.0      -  Xt3.3.0 9 169.0           1,690.0        -       3
Id-da) IS loam                        51042.6   411.6  S.54.2  2.5213   2M5.3 2.727.)           a       S
E. s.a inmi
O. SM   PA                            W.2             1 V57.2    73.6      -    7.6          - 
2. L3                                 110.0 _          110-0    10.0             55.0       -        0
3'h-Total Si   51rs26 W.2                           -    2W7.2   u16                                    0
T. FM  14E " M                         3M598        -  3,5306  1t79t93        - 1,799.3         -       3
L *R r130 3010                          20.9   62.7    313.6   I21.4    31.4  1u.S             20       0
11-   19          1*      con         1.4(8.0       -  1.448.0    72.0        -   724.0         -       I
1.1*3331139)1133
1. r*11 on MM                        668.9       -    669    334.4         -   334.4         -       1
2. EU1 1   rA tL HAmM                J32.0       -    332.0    16.0              66.0        -       0
Il*- ao   ILU*3 in  1tom               1,0.9        -  1a.0       5.4   -         50* -
J. 1aL8  AM)38                              - 2.0.0  2,00.0          .  ).275.0 10275.0       100       2
K. s 1                                  432.   648.0  1.0.0    216.0   324.0   40.0            6o 
L. IU -       T1UE                      117.S       -    117.3    58.9        -    3.9          -       0
T"a           m1                         23144.0 6T5.5 ;303   11472.0 3.0.8 1;0                    23     20
tOW          cm 11                          671n.4 6,747.9 10419.  15.MS 34-J?4A 1270.98           65      1oo
t,td  CAUta js                          1,547.9 3,3.   4.012        774.0 167.5 2,441.5          a        5
Pt. riamc                              13,602.4 4.9.4  17,92.0  6,013 2491.7 &tSS-0              24      17
a Pcr COsTM                               11..2 76332.31 23204.  25.9.I U'ZW.2 64.102.2            e0    122
-    -_  _                       -                         -  



- 54 -
Annax 2
Table 1
ZIMUBAWE
Fort Resources, MUngeaust And Development Projoct
Feeestry Coamisolon Ciomerciel Operations
Actual Salem  Shet (1984-1988)
1984      186        180         1987      1i88
ASSETS
Curr  ~~~~~~~~r
Current Asstes
Cash                           1i2          21         o02         248       1,868
Debbore                       1,151       1,885      1,M         2,264       2,984
Stocks                        2,080       2,422      8,687       4,917       5,158
Short-term Investments        R,522       4,614      0,456      11,845      16,120
Subtotal                    8,806       8,442     12,467      18,804      25,026
Long-trn Assets
Plantatione                  21,165      24,482     39,684      84,872      89,880
Flted Assett                  9,751      11,545     14,026      15,l13      17,288
Others                            2          0           0          (0)        28
Subtotal                   86,0918     86,977     44,719 0    59,48       57,81
Total Assnts           87,778      44,419     57,176      8,40W       88.666
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Current Liability
Creditors                       485        018       1,641      1972        1,468
Loan payable                    449        262         20t         228        287
Acrued Interet Payablo          190        524       1,081       1,844      2,749
Subtotal                    1,124       1,880      2,8"        8,189       4,564
Long-term Liability
OOZ Loans  Interet           81,549      87,86      48,068      49,524      57,415
Equipmet Sinking Fund         8,674      4,421       5,5t1       $0,"1      11,102
Total L.T. Liability      86,128      41,467     49,169      57,665       8,577
Forest Reserve Fund             078        787       1,647       2,707       4,124
Grants                        404         812        812         812         812
Retained Earnings             449         524      1,081       1,844       2,749
Valuation R mrv                 a          0       2,248       2,746       2,740
Subtotal                  1,526       1,628      5,180       7,008       9,925
TOTAL LISMILITIES AND CAPITAL       87,778     44,419      57,170      08,407     88,665



- 55 -
AAx 2
Tabl- 2
nMI
Forest ResourcesManagement and Development Project
Forestry Commilon Cmrell Operatlmn
Actual Incm Statem_nt (1094-1938)
1984       198t       1986        1#7?       1986
WI 000
Sales fro tlaea              6,416      7,8156     11.4       15,965      17,198
Irest ls                       855         60          8          74        881
MIlsl glaneos                   48         so         t2          84         34
TotalI Revenue             6,619      7,442 .   11,50       16,098      17,648
Purchese                     1,421      1,128       1,457      2,040      2,881
Operating expee              4,074      5,484       6,060     11,171     12,072
Inteet expse                   299        m          440         875        goo
Dqprelatlon expese             184        114         13         19         212
Overhea                        295        196         170        280        So1
Total Expnss               6,228      7,274      10,82      14,060      15,88=
OPERATIND PROFIT                    6$9          168      1,267       2,038      2,261



- 56 -
Annex 8
Table 1
ZIWAUWE
Forost Resoorcsn Mana9gnt and Development Pro]ecS
Foresty Commission Comorolal Operation
Projected Balance Shet (199-1094)
19ii       19i        19         low      1994
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                           2t0         tO2 278 too                        29     8a
Debtorr                       7,808      8028        8,178      9,0e.       9,826   10,270
Stocks                        5,158      5,158       5,158      5,18        5,188   5,158
Short-term Investments       19,466     26,647      82,228     86,069      42,726   48,418
Subtotal                   32,102     89,986      4C,824     58,129      57,495  64,141
Long-trm Asste
Planations                   47,888     51,004      55,985     01,8        67,465  75,617
Ft xd Asaat                  18,289     28,829      40,094     57,"1       78,644  76,624
Otr                            865         261        107         169         264     177
Subtotal                  65,092     75,24       96,196    118,289    141,818  152,518
Total Assets           98,184    115,279    142,926    171,867    198,28 216,659
LIABXLES AND CAPITAL
Currnt Liabil  tis
Creditors                     1,468      1,466       1,468      1,466       1,488   1,409
Loans ayable                   287         287        287         287         287     287
Accru  Interest Payable          0         4865      1,9560      ,412       4,887   4,875
Subtotal                   1,5        2,240       8,795      5,167       0,142   86,0
Long-trm Liabi lites
0Z1 Loans + Interest         71,871     71,871      71,871     71,871      71,871  71,871
Equipment Sinking Fund       12,865     18,780      15,209     16,6$6      18,626  20,595
World Bank Loan                  O       5,9W       20,009      8650       45,698  690,09
Subtotal                 88,75      98,101    186,59    128,207    184,997  141,968
Total Liabilities            865,511    92,841    11,2865    126,874    141,189 146,590
Capital
Forst Reserve Fund            5,n8       8,887    1l,521       18,461      15,462  18,77
aront                         812      5,981      11,469     17,818      29,179  84,926
Retine Earning              8,848      5,691       7,914      6,974      19,898  12,518
Valuation Rserve            2,740      2,740       2,740      2,740       2,740   2,740
Total Capital            12,678     22,929      81,785     42,008      57,669  68,969
TOTAL LIABIIrTIES AND CAPITAL      98,184    115,270    142,20    171,867    198,826  216,056
_                                                         _--          -



- 57 -
AMXa
Table 2
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Forsotry Comission Commarleal Operatton
Projected Incew Statemnt (1089-1994)
19S9       19Q0       lool        i.e        1998    1994
2m 000_
Sales                       26,719     29,67       84,018     80,115     44,088  51.780
Dlocounts2t (0)    (1 54)    (1.21?)    (1,406)    (1,579)  (1,716)
Not Sales                   2471M      20,048      82,70      87,700     48,404  50,015
Iecom frm Investments          444        47          51$          0        604      052
ToIol Rebnue              25,168     26,622      88,814     88,268      44,008  50,667
Purchses                     6,948      7,642       6,407      9,247      10,172  11,189
Operating aspoxse           12,682     18,785      15,164     16,680      18,848  20,188
Interet *xpens                   0        487       1,050      8,412      4,887   4,876
Depreclatotn expous           lO6w      1,7I8        1966      2,127       2,815   2,520
Overheads                      648        710         781        860        948   1,040
Total Exponse             21,781     24,422    28,257       82,826      86,8  80,607
OPERATING PROFIT                    8,84       4,100      5,057       6,942      7,840  10,660



- 58 -
Table 8
Foreet Reourc  Managemnt And Devlopmt Projet
Forestry Coerision Coereclol Operations
Projected Sources nd Use of Fun_s (19-1094)
1l60       1906       1091       0m         19"    1994
_    _      _      _~Zi  so
Soures of Funds
Cash Balance (oponing)        1,U8         26         26         276         2       290
Cash Soles                      m           9Q2       041       1,967      1,148   1,826
Col lIfctions                22,717     27,6a8     26,949      82,96      85,199  40,209
Operating Income              8,88       4,100       5,657      5,042      7,646  19,60
Interest frem lnvestent         444        479        a16        S69 064             0652
Loan tree World Bank              0      5,am       15,        15,O       10j,i    S,w
reant Froe OQZ                7,482      6,049       5,499      6,856      7,861   6,847
Depreciation                    482        454        470        a6n         526     551
Stubpe  fees                  1,0"9      2,2ao      2,852       2,716      2,865    8,814
Total Source n8,529                   46,122     5,652      65,424     65,615  71,049
Uso of Funds
interet Paynent                   0        48?      1,05m      8,412       4,887   4,8?6
Operating expenses           12,582      18,7865    15,14      16,606     16,848  20,168
Purchase                      6,048      7,642      8,40        9,247     19,172  11,159
Capital expenditures          1,488      a,548      15,6       16,56S     1D,784   7,821
Plantation expenses           6,8630     6,36       6,58        ?,t1       0,26   11,72
Overh d                         646        710        76         ON          904    1,640
Transfers to Sinking Fund    18,879     10,169      19,610     11,56S     11,069  14,415
Cash Balance Closing            go         166        27         28          206     so
Total                      86,520     46,122     09,062     6,424      65,619  71,049
4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



- 59 -
Annex 3
Appendix
Pag. 1
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Forestry Commission Commercial Operations
Assumptions for Financial Projections
The projected cash flow, profit and loss account, and balance sheets have
been prepared using the following basis and assumptions:
1. Sales
Sales volumes have been increased by 32 annually while selling prices
have been increased by 152 annually.
2. Interest from Investment
This refers to the balance of interest receivable from investment of
surplus funds after crediting the Sinking Fund with its share of the
interest.
3. Discounts
It has been assumed that the Commission will continue to grant a 5?
bulk discount and a 2 1122 settlement discount to its customers.
4. Delreciation
Depreciation for Heads 4, 5, and 7 will continue to be credited to the
Sinking Fund.
5. Labor & Salaries
Labor and salaries include the effect of possible annual increases
based on average increases resulting from past experiences.
6. V & B and purchases have been increased by only 102 and it is hoped
that this will be realized by strict expenditure control.
7. Rents and rates and overheads have been increased annually by 102.
8. Interest on Loans
This has been calculated on the basis of the existing loans and it has
been assumed that Government will, with effect from 1st July, 1990
provide a government irant to cover plantation, recurrent and capital
costs for existing plantations.



- 60 -
Anne: 3
Appendix
Pase 2
9. Collections from Debtors
This has been based on past experience. Only 202 of credit sales-will
be paid in the following year.
10. Plantation Account
The interest on loans and other recurrent expenses will continue to be
capitalized as before.
11. Stocks
The stock levels have been assumed to be constant i.e., the extra
production output will be all sold during the course of the year.
12. Interest on the World Bank loan will accrue at 9.75 per annum and
will be paid in the ensuing year. Interest on the World Bank loan
will be charged wholly to the Profit and Loss Account that is, no
interest will be charged to the Plantation Account.
13. The Government of Zimbabwe loan and interest accrued as of the end of
June 1989 has been kept constant for the next 5 years, the assumption
being thats
(a) No further interest will accrue on existing loans
(b) The outstanding loan and interest will be non-redeemable.
14. The temporary advance to State will remain constant as it has been
assumed that the Government will not be able to pay it off during the
five-year period.
15. Profit has been shared as follows:
602 transferred to the Forestry Reserve Fund
401 transferred to Retained Earnings
This is according to the terms of the Forestry Act (CAP 125).
16. Outstanding creditors at year end will be at a maximum of $1,468,081;
otherwise purchaees will be strictly on a cash basis.
i 4   *.                 . .



- 61 -
Page 1 of 2
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources al4agoeint ana Developaent Project
Zetl ated Disbursemat Scbedule zJ
- US$ million -
Quarter                       Quarterly                      Cumulative
Endiun                        Disbursement                   Disburemept
FY 1991 21
September :2, 1990                0.1                           0.1
December 31, 1990                 0.2                           0.3
March 31, 1991                    0.7                           1.0
June 30, 1991                     0.7                           1.7
WY 1992
September 30, 1991                0.7                           2.4
December 31, 1991                 0.7                           3.1
March 31, 1992                    0.9                           4.0
June 30, 1992                     0.9                           4.9
WY 1993
September 30, 1992                0.9                           5.8
December 31, 1992                 1.0                           6.8
March 31, 1993                    1.0                           7.8
June 30, 1993                     0.9                           8.7
1/Based on Bank Disbursement Profile region-wide
2JThe financial year runs from July 1 to June 30



- 62 -
Pam, 2 of 2
Quarter                       Quarterly                      Cumulative
Ending                        Disbursement                   Disbursement
FY 1994
September 30, 1993                0.9                             9.6
December 31, 1993                 0.9                            10.5
March 31, 1994                    0.4                            10.9
June 30, 1994                     0.4                            11.3
FY 1995
September 30, 1994                O.S                           11.6
December 31, 1994                 0.3                            11.9
March 31, 1995                    0.3                            12.2
June 30, 1995                     0.3                           12.5
FY 1996
September 30. 1995                0.3                           12.8
December 31, 1995                 0.3                            13.1
March 31, 1996                    0.2                            13.3
June 30. 1996                     0.2                            13.5
FY 1997
September 30, 1996                0.2                            13.7
December 31, 1996                 0.2                            13.9
March 31, 1997                    0.3                            14.2
June 30, 1997                     0.3                            14.5



- 63 -
Annex 5
Tabie I
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Rural Afforestation Program
Targats for Woodlot Establishment
Project Year                 1       2        3       4       5        a      7
Total Uoodlots
Established              1,945   2,095   2,220   2,295   2,295   2,295   2,295
School Woodlots    (No) 1,167   1,152   1,110   1,033       918     918      918
(ha)   584     576     555      516     459     459      459
Group Woodlots      (No)   389     524     668      803     918      918     918
(ha)   389     524     666      803     918     918      918
Individual Woodlots (No)  389      419     444      459     459     459      459
(ha)  195     210     222      230     230     230      230
Total Area
Established         (ha) 1,167   1,309   1,443   1,549   1,607   1,607   1,607
Total Seedlings
Used              ('000) 2,334   2,619   2,886   3,098   3,213   3,213   3,213



- 64 -
Amnex 5
Table 2
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources Managem_nt and Development Project
Rural Afforestation Program
Production of Seedlints for Farm Tree Plantig,
Project Year                 1        2       3       4        5       6        7
Total Seedlings ,
Distributed_a/            1,105   1,33?   1,422   1,519   1,654   1,522   1,231
Fuelvood/Pole/Fodder       553     869      711     759      827     761      615
Fruit                       553     669      711     759      827     761      615
a1    70% of the seedlings not raised for woodlots In Year 1 increasing to 95%
by Year 5.



- 65 -
Annex 5
Table 3
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Rural Afforestation Program
Establishment ot Satellite Nurseries and Seedling Production
Project Year                 1     2     3     4     5     6      7
-----------------------------------------------------------------
New Nurseries Established  128   138   148   153   153   153  153
New Nurseries Operating    128   234   324   396   450   490  521
Old Nurseries Operating    120    90    68    51    38    28   21
Total Nurseries Operating  248   324   391   446   488   519  542
Seedlings Produced ('000)  992  1296  1564  1785  1951  2075 2168



- 66 -
Annex 5
Table 4
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Rural Afforestation Program
Establishment of Satellite Nurseries by Group
Project Year                    1     2      3     4      5     6    7
Schools
P-rcent of total
new nurseries (%)             60    50    40    30    30    30   30
Number                        77    89    59    46    46    46   46
Women's Groups   (20%)J/      10    14    18    21    21    21   21
VIDCOs and Others (60%)&/   31    41    53    64    64    64   64
Individuals (20%)g/           10    14    18    21    21    21   21
a/   Percentage of group or  individual nurseries not established
by schools.



- 67 -
Annex 5
Table 5
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Rural Afforestation Program
Establishment and Production of Central Nurseries
Project Year                 1    2      3     4     5     6    7
---------------------------------------------------------------_
Old Nurseries Operated      69    69    69    69    69    60   50
New Nurseries Established    5     5
New Nurseries Operated       5    10   10   10   10   10  10
Total Nurseries Operated    74    79    79    79    79    70  60
Total Production
('000 seedlings)          2960  3160  3160  3160  3160  2800 2400



- 68 -
A_nex 5
TAble 6
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Rural Afforestation Program
Yield Estimate for One Hectare of New Woodlot
Age          3-Meter Poleg1     25.-Meter E ys        F               Tot
(years)        (No)    (in) /    (No)    (m )             (ml)6o         (m)
5           800    12.1         400       2.8          15.0           29.9
t0           900    13.6         500       3.5         19.0            36.1
15           700    10.6         300       2.1         13.0            25.7
Total        2,400    36.3       1,200       8.4          47.0           92.7
A/   Volume of 3.0-meter poles:  O.Os51
b/   Volume of 2.5-meter poles:  0.0071 mn



- 69 -
Annex 5
Table 7
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Rural Afforestation Program
SuPport Fund Requirements
(Z$'000)
ProJect Year                  1     2     3      4     5      6     7
--------------------------------____-----------------------------
Satellite Nurs Establ.      51    55    59    61    81    61    61
Satellite Nursery Op.       41    75   104   127   144   157   167
School Woodlots            117   115   111   103    92    92    92
Group Woodlots              78   105   133   161   184   18    184
Individual Woodlots         39    42    44    46    46    46    46
Old DC Woodlots              16    22    24    24    24    24    24
Total                      342   414   475   522   551   564   574



- 70 -
Annex     6
Page 1 of 7
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Monitorable Action Proaram for Target Groups
Introduction
Effective involvement of the target groups is considered a requisite for
the success of the rural afforestation component. This action program
presents the proposed measures to be taken to pursue this goal during the
project period. It suggests specific activities to be undertaken and
assigns responsibilities to the various agencieslactors involved in project
implementation. An important objective of the action program is to
facilitate the continuous monitoring of the target group involvement in the
project and make required changes and adjustments in the implementation
strategy along the way.
ELEMENTS                            ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
1. IDENTIFICATION OF TARGET
GROUPS
a.   District Level                 Within the first 6 months a complete
list of the number and type of target
groups in each district has to be
prepared by the DPO, based on
information collected by the extension
staff. Included in the list should also
be the NGOs operating in forestry
activities in each district.
The list should comprise the following
categoriest
WADCOs
VIDCOs
Women's Groups
Farmers' Groups
Other Community Groups
Schools
NGOs
b. Central Level                    The district lists should be sent to
headquarters through the provincial
offices not later than 9 months from
project start, and the information made
available to PMEU.



- 71 -
Ann"x     6
Pane 2 of 7
2. EXTENSION AND TRA NING
a. TraininR of Staff
Orientation Workshops                One national workshop and one workshop
in each district for Agritex, FC and
NGO staff involved in extension should
be orgalsoed by PC during the first 6
months with the purpose of defining
extension strategies and assigning
roles to involved parties.
Follo -up Workshops                  PC would be responsible for organizing
half-yearly follow-up workshops at the
district level for extension staff of
all involved agencies with the purpose
of exchanging experiences and ideas on
the community participation approach.
Training Courses                     PC and Agritez would be jointly
responsible for organizing in-service
training for their own staff and for
the staff of involved NGOs. During the
first 3 years all would attend courses
in extension methods, including methods
of reaching women through extension.
Selected staff would be trained in
review techniques in relation to
periodic field assessments. Courses
would be held at Agritex Training
Colleges and the Zimbabwe College of
Forestry. Within the first 3 months a
program for the planned training
courses would have to be prepared by
the PC and Agritex headquarters. Annual
targets are given in Table 1. Special
ttaining in relation to field
assessments is not included in these
targets, and would be part of thebudget
provided for periodic short-term
studies.
Training materiai                   A special package of training material
on the role of women in afforestation
should be produced by PC within the
first 6 months of the project period,
including a manual on the involvement
of women and at least one educational
film dealing with the role of women,
highlighting among other things the



- 72 -
Annex 6
Pave 3 of 7
situation of women in female-headed
households.
b. Extension
Groups to be Covered                The extension staff should &im at
covering a total number of about 1,232
women's groups, 7,216 youth groups
including schools and 4,929 other
community groups during the project
period. Annual targets are given In
Table 2.
Training and Visit Meetings         The groups should be reached through
mobilization meetings and training and
supervision meetings in nursery and
woodlot establishment & management and
farm tree planting. Fortnightly visits
to each group should be aimed at.
As part of the training one member of
each women's group and one member of
each other community group involved
in the project should be given special
training in nursery eotablishment and
management. A total number of about
1,230 representatives for women's
groups and about 4,930 representatives
of other community groups would hence
be trained as *nursery experts'.
Besides training and supervision the
extension staff should also assist in
providing seedlings from central
nurseries, applying for funds from the
Support Fund, and applying for land
from the local authorities.
Types of Training                   The areas covered in training sessions
with community groups should include
nursery establishment & management,
woodlot establishment & management,
cultivation and usage of different
species and agroforestry. Besides
training sessions held during the
extension workers' routine visits to
the villages, semi-annual workshops
3hould be held at the ward level on
selected topics for representatives
of groups undertaking tree planting
activities.



- 73 -
Annex    6
Page 4 of 7
Table 1
Training Courses for EMtension Workers
Project Year               1    2    3    4    S    6    7
Aqritex Workers
No. of Courses             12   12   12   12   12   12   12
No. Trained               180  180  180  180  180  180  180
School Teachers
No. of Provincial Courses   15   30   30   30   30   30   30
No. Trained               450  900  900  900  900  900  900
No. of District Courses    40   40   40   40   40   40   40
No. Trained             1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200
NG0s
No. of Courses             10   20   20   20   20   20   20
No. Trained               200  400  400  400  400  400  400
Table 2
Groups Covered in Training and Visit Sessions
Project Year         1      2      3       4      5      6    7
_______________________________________________________________
Women'6s Groups     93   126   160    193   220   220  220
Youth Groups a/  1,167  1,152  1,110  1,033   918   918  918
Other Community
Groups             373   503   639    771   881   881  881
a/  Includes schools.



- 74 -
Annes 6
PagegS of 7
3. SUPPORT FUND & INPUT SUPPLY
a. Support Fund                    Information about the Support Fund
should be given to the members of
the communities by the extension
staff. It should be mentioned to
all groups covered in the project.
The projected allocations of the
supply of inputs for nursery and
woodlot establishment by the
Support Fund are given In Table 3.
Of the funds allocated to Satellite
Nursery establishment and Group
Woodlots at least 202 should go to
women's groups.
b. Input SuPP1Y                    Satellite Nurseries
Establishment supports Z$ 400tnursery
Production support: Z$ 8011.000
seedlings
Support for man. 5,000 seedlings/year
for 3 years
Groun Woodlots
Support: Z$ 232/ha
Table 3
Supnort Fund Allocations
Project Year                1     2     3     4     5     6      7
No. of Satellite          128   138   148   153   153   153   153
Nurseries supported(a)
No. of School            1009   991   957   888   793   793   793
Woodlots supported(b)
No. of Women's Group
Woodlots supported         67    91   115   139   159   159   159
No. of Other Group
Woodlots supported        269   362   458   555   634   634   634
No. of Individual         336   362   379   397   397   397   397
Woodlots supported
----------------------------------------------------------__-----
Modification of Table 11. in Working Paper No.l: Rur. Afforest.
(a) Each given input to establishment, value: Z$ 400
(b) Each given input to establishment, value Z$ 232 per hectare
School and individual woodlots: 0.5 ha/Group woodlots: 1.0 ha



- 75 -
Annex     6
Pare 6 of 7
4. NURSERIES I WOODLOTS                                      -
a. Satellite Nurseries              Schools, groups and individuals in the
local communities should establish a
total of 1,022 nurseries under the
projert. It would be the responsibility
of the comamnities themselves to supply
and organize the labor required for
establishing the nurseries and for
maintaining them under the supervision
of the extension staff and to report and
seek advice on any problems that may
occur. Annual targets are given in Table
4.
Semi-annual assessments of the number
of satellite nurseries still in
operation should be carried out as part
of project monitoring.
b. Woodlots                         Schools, groups and individuals in the
local communities should establish a
total of 15,440 woodlot* under the
project. It would be the responsibility
of the comnunities themselves to
maintain the woodlots under the
supervision of the extension staff and
to report and seek advice on
any problems that may occur. Annual
targets are given in Table 5.
Semi-annual asse!sments of the number
of woodlots still in operation should
be carried out as part of project
monitoring.



- 76 -
*Annex 6
Pate 7 of 7
Table 4
Establishment of Satellite Nurseries by Grou,
Project Year                  1     2     3     4      5     6    7
Schools
Percent of total
new nurseries (Z)            60    50    40    30    30    3i  30
Number                       77    69    59    46    46    46   46
Women's Groups (202)aI       10    14    18    21    21    21   21
VIDC0s and Others (60Z)a/   31    41    53    64    64    64   64
Individuals (20S)al          10    14    18    2.!   21    21   21
a/   Percentage of group or individual nurseries not established by
schools.
Table 5
Targets for Woodlot Establishment
Project Year            1        2       3       4        5       6      7
Total Woodlots
Established         1,945   2,095   2,220   2,295   2,295   2,295   2,295
School Woodlots(No) 1,167   1,152   1,110   1,033       918     918     918
(ha)   584     576     555     516      459     459     459
Women's Groups
Woodlots        (No)    78     105     133     161      184     184     184
(ha)    78     105     133     161      184     184     184
VIDCOs and Others
(No)    311     419     533     642      734     734     734
(ha)    311     419     533     642      734     734     734
Individual Woodlots
(No)   389     419     44*.    459      459     459     459
(ha)   195     210     222     230      230     230     230
Total Area
Established   (ha) 1,168   1,310   1,443   1,549   1,607   1,607   1,607
Total Seedlings
Used         (000) 2,334   2,619   2,885   3,098   3,213   3,213   3,213



- 77 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Forestry Commission O2eratina Policy
(A) Policy of the Forestry Comission, in its role as FORESTRY AUTHORITYs
1. to promote the greatest possible knowledge and understanding of
forestry ("the art, science and the business of conserving and
growing trees"), tree planting, trees and the forest industry
throughout the country;
2. to ensure that the country's entire forest resources are developed
for the lasting benefit of the people;
3. to promote, develop and improve the efficiency of the country's
timber-growing and timber-using industries;
4. to assess domestic and export requirements for all kinds of timber
and, in consultation with Government and the private sector, its
timely provision;
5. to ensure the reservation and conservation of indigenous forest
where this is necessary for the protection and production of water,
soil, timber and other forest products for the lasting benefit of
the people of Zimbabwe;
6. to manage, develop and utilize forests on Communal Land for the
benefit of the locality;
7. to undertake and conduct research relevant to the needs of forestry
and to make known the results of such research;
8. to ensure the protection of areas of special scientific or
aesthetic value;
9. to advise Government, directly or indirectly, in regard to proposed
and planned new schemes, within the forest industry;
10. to advise Government in regard to tree planting and forestry
development of Communal Land;
11. to provide such advisory and management services as may be required
by Government or the forest industry;
12. to introduce, promote and develop additional forms of land use
whenever and wherever practicable;
13. to promote, and, or, provide educational and training facilities
adequate to meet the needs of forestry and the forest industry.



- 78-      
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
(B) Policy of the Forestry Commission, in its role as FORESTRY ENTERPRlSE
1. to establish, manage and develop its own forests for the production
and supply of timber and other forest products;
2. to process as much of its own timber production as is practicable.
General
in pursuit of all aspects of its policy, to plan, operate and maintain a
suitable administrative structure, and to plan and ensure economical,
efficient, and vhere appropriate profitable, performance to yield an
adequate return on all capital employed; this planning, inter alia, to
determine suitable sources and levels of capital required.
I



ZImbab,.                                Annex 8
Fi9ure1W1                          Forest Resources Management and  _ lopent Project            Tsble l
TenXtave ImplementatIon Tinm Schedule
Chimanimanl Sawmilling Developmcnt
I                          2                          3
.__ _ _ _  _     _       _  _  _ _ _ _       3 _ _ _          10 11 12 1 2   5     6 _  6 _ _  9 1 111 1
I Implementation Ddsion            1 2
2 Logglng
Tendering
Purchasing
Manufcturing and delivery                                      *      _ _ _ _u
Training and start-up 
Production
3 SaWnili COMPleX
Basic design and technical plans . _
Eqkupment specafion c atL
Tendering
Purchasing
Manufaduring and delivery
Installation                                   _ _     
Training
Start-up 
Production
4 Civi Works
Site preparation                          W0
Road construction                m    ..m               ..mmm m               ii    u
Structural design              _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Mill buildings etc.           1                   u i m *
Power supply                                                 .mJ mm
Housingjrj    1n.rjnnii                                                                        u. 1



53.*:                     ~~~~~~~LOJMN
as; as  146 iSlt Met) 5  315  SCM  S1455 tUB  as  413t  US  US- t Ut- 1-.  143- 364.    .      -   .      t        Im
M    M WU    M. aS   1    US M 1              MI  MS  MS a69     0 3    ta-                      -                    M A
Om    M    M 13   k3  to  tot3                13  M3  on   M  w        g o
*  a      IS M  I  N ISg  09   I    Ut  Ut  Ut  3n16 s6   St                                                 (U) M -_
la   06   o    on II" 59   MI  in5  5     9   M9  54M  of  on   Ng5  496                                          GM"
ouWW1 331 MA
Sl   Z    6    m    as   w~~~   u    0 m    "z     a     Mf   1    a                                   (M Na
"~~3                 3c 3    3    15 u9   5  n           5t 95I  El.(3)3s<- 3-  9
-         -    a    a    a    a    a    a    a    a    a    a    a    M(  g  --
in         I n   lo t nn   a             M    WI  m    t    -          -     -     -     -         _  
a   13   M   95  S  t         on   39   U   at  I    ID, aW  Su   o-                              -                gm -
m   an  cm -        to   u   ue  13   US UR  K    M    ust              Os   .                    - .             9mut-
stlOm
t lW4&tS@*tllX  >    <mm-                                                          t11333 >
.3 .         .      .     .     .     . ..             .     lot        at  UT  M    M    III  1snow a5U9111
---    u3  6u  1u   u    u    M           mom am W
MS  -S  U           'an  'OM3  '"I  ;M         41   3        93  96;  09   a           .    .    .            umanism
I~~~~~~~E   96 e9        tV 45  46   U    5   56    3   1    6 u5 -S -                                                           -   -   IIU631
u              mta l   M   a    a    a    M   Illa      M a    ua u          n     -    -                         amen
gt~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  13 545 SIC 1W 181 965    31 g   1  l                                          UWU   --
* *     -.      -6 *6  -   -5  -           4  -6   -    6   96r  Ill                           .      Y        SUi  11SU
-I   -t   -t    It I'     It at     It   RI                   C   9t                                               1 9    1-   -  -  1E 3l
H  61 ol    I   6    $1 Os    f   $    of n    aI 1   St SI £    I                              495)33
- IC  aI  aC    .   ICi 1    it           IM uUAWUOU91
in3 Ukla M  55639414     aa IS 14                       ADU   6   1 46M1 3.uAD
n    M    U    U    M   an   N    *t   *t   n    *t   U lt   an   on   9    t    a    .    -                     35)15590
An5  415  aU  0on   i    Uk  IS         V UU1 iINWISI
* * * -    -    WI  n61  1W   s o I to 1  on                35
*    .    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    *    -    - *    S3  13  49   55   S3   Ut  nW  tUtlAUUd 63)1
to    n   Us T u    US u  St            m    ttn d  F m I
.    .    .    .    .    .    . . . * -    -    1*  18  91   1*  Dl S IIIS UU AA 1415381
11961WM
Ut  ti   t    U   ti  ot   6                   tu1
-41   a -t   IT   a    I  -              a    n -       6    a         9 s   ;    .              t
got  M-so,                           *    *    9Ct
~~~~~~~~~~~~~._____                                              I.....
I Zoql                                                           oM,ga p.   .
6 xOUU                                           Nj _tol Po lieesw  _ft                         %



Zimbabwe
Forest Resources bIgemut em  Developnmt Project                                                   Annex 9
Table 2
COE IAL FORESTRY
FIAL COS AND  ENEFITS
000 s
1      2       3        4       5       6     7-8       9   10-11       12   13-14      15  16-0
INCRENENIfL BENEFITS
CNIMNNI Hill S ILL                                 -         -    6829   10951   1363   1363   1363   1363   13663   1363   136U3   16U     13663
MEMAl O  EXISTINS SUILLS AND MAE MOT               -    1495    67      4355    5459    5459    5459   5459    5459    5459    5459    S9    545,
TOTAL INC fAI BEITS                                -    14     1007   156   19122   19122   1912   1122   19122   19122   19122   19122           122
INEMTAL COSTS
CNIdINANI KE SMBNIU.                           13606   24M8     7299    53      63      638       59   10499    6359   1184      6359    6872    6359
UEN  OF EXISTING SANILLS AND NITARE DO         10697    3624     435     654     5      150S     5       555m  s5         5       5               55
TOlTA ItiC ENEtNIL COSTS                      24303   27909    74    6016    6914    781    6914   11054    6914   12404    6914    7427    6914
INCRMTAL NET IENEFITS
TOIML INREENIAL NE! KtIIItS                  -24303  -26414    2773   9n29    12208   11231   12208    8068   12208    6718   12208   11695   12208
--------------------------------------- ------------ ------
Nov 3t 199  ,:o:
Ia,temal Raw. oft Ptlutr of Net Streas
ffl0t                   16.82



Zimbabwe                                                                                       Anex 9
Forest Resources Managemnt and Developmet Project                                                                                       Table 3
000 14
1       2        3        4        5        6        7                 9       to       11       12       13       14       15       16       17       18       19       20
DNIeWt N. mint
. 1MF T*u                               '                 -        -        9    2703    335    46    579 7m            6   12261   147        13402   1394    5          £ 3   172     1            1404   1419
t.   F5   1                     -    149     10507   136   191          122   1922   1m             t922   1W        1922   19m         191      12     122   19122   9122   19m1    192   1
I0TI JIDf1A  IE           S             -    14       15               19131   218325   24        231     2401   26          33        33      3 254   =16' 311   345   364    3 9   33 J                      317
MM     IO5151I*                     402      3364    33         074    419       432m    439       1        1759    229    3410    401           927    4151    42         4        4696    4         077    409
l a_l Fl3S1                        243      2790    M4    6016    64    731     6                  6 94   1105       6914    6914   12404    64    6914    7427    694    64                   14    6914    691
311. £l EiZOII   CStlS            23326   317M     116l   10090   11107   122           113       32    13          923   10m4    6419   141    11065   11705   11                11610   159   1091   £1012
minim le umins
W3L .1 111 . NE  KWFIT     -2336  -30273   -1161    5216    32                   906   11160   15216   119          17243   21059   1429   2169     22451   256             21493     229
InOern  Rates   Rourn of Net Str_ms
NTM                                   16.



Annex 10
Zimbabwe                                           Table 1
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
R1AL AFFORESTATION PRO RM
ECOIIOIC COST  AND 1E£1F11S
(Million Z$)
1      2       3       4      5       6       7       a       7      to      ill    :^%    :3       t^ 0.   1-I
_~~~~~~~ *                                                          0                       *     *
RRK  AFFOITATIU                      -      -       -       -   1.09    4.10    4.39    4.39    4.39   9.00    t.00    5.21    5.21   5.88   8.88
TREE FARIImB                         -      -       -       -       -   0.73    O.%6    1.3?    1.91   2.64    4.21    5.42    5.70   6.71    7.56
ITTAL WEIS                          -       -      -       -   1.09    4.83   5.35   5.78    L.30   11.61  13.21   10.63   10.91   12.6   16.44
COSTS
JNYSTENT COSTS                    1.00    0.30   0.2    0.10   0.10         O      l   -           -       -       -      -       -       -       -
OPERAThIS COSTS                   3.80   3.60   3.70   3.90   3.90    3.90    3.90   1.30   1.30    1.50   2.20   2.70   2.50    2.90   3.20
T/b, STUIES AMD STAFF TRAIMIEB    0.80   0.40   010         -       -       -       -         -       -                   -       -       -       -
TOTAL COSTS                       5.60    4.30   4.00   4.00   4.00   4.90   3.90    1.30    1.30   1.50   2.20   2.70   2.50    2.90   3.20
INCREMT.L NET DEEFITS            -5.60  -4.30  -4.00  -4.00  -2.91   0.93   1.45   4.48    5.00  10.14   11.01   7.93   8.41    9.72   13.2
Intrsl Rte  f oturn ot Not Strums
1110T                  18.691



Annex 10
-84-                         Table 2
Zimbabte
Forest Resources 1anagemant and Development Project
COuMRCIAL FORSTRY CWIPBT
ECONIC BEEFITS AND COSTS
1      2       3       4    5-9  10-20
INCREMIENTAL MENEFITS
Kuil MAUNILL.                            -       -    7095  11385  11419   14190
CHIPS                                    -       -    33       538    67       67
SAIMIU  REWIIAUTATION                    -       -    115    2310   3432   3432
SAVDOCTORING ND TREATNT PLANT            -      59    507    607    607    607
TOTAL IMENTAL BENEFITS                   -      59   9093   14840  18901  18901
INCEM AL COSTS
CUST OF SW LOGS                          -    425   175    2.451  12884   2884
NWANFACTUI  AND SALES COSTS              -       1   2012   3705   4013   4013
PRWi- T TRANSPORT COSTS                  -       -    287    383    447    447
E-IJEEI  AND PROJECT AA9S                      443       -       -       -       -
RILL EQUIPMENT AND INSTALLATION       7259   4247   2365         -       -       -
START UP AND TRAINING                    -    80       30        -       -       -
CIVIL MORES An  INFRASTUTURE          5       3305    250        -       -       -
LOGINB E0UIPNT                          53   4848    186         -       -       -
RESIDUAL VE                              -       -       -       -       -   -500
TOTAL INM TAL COSTS                  13593   14069    7416   65       744   2344
INCREMETiAL NET BENFITS             -13593 -14010    1677   9301  11557   167
Inteal SiR of  tm  of Not Streus
NTDT                   2.5?



Zimbabwe                                                  Annex  10
Forest Resources Management and Developmnt Project                                       Table 3
WOML ECC CMM US WNXMF
(Million Z$)
1        2      3       4       5        6       7       a        9      10      it       12      13      141   _20
_03. MVBTATIU                       -         -      -       -    1.09    4.83    5.35    5.78    6.30   11.61   o13.     10.6     10.1   12.6     16.44
E      l. vmiuv                     -    59.Om 0    3.00 14540.00n01.o0 £Iwoioo 1301.00 11.0019 01.00 1i01.00 2          18901.001.00 18,0M00 1 0 I901.00 
TUKU. oInS L JEEml5                 -       A.00 90200 1450.00 1302.0t 1905.3 10906.35 10306.78 1390.30 13912.61 12914.21 11.13 1391191 1813.42 187.44
w          II                     5.60     4.30   4.00    4.0    4.0       3.90    3.90    1.30    1.30    1.S0    2.20    2.70    2430    2.90    3.20
COfU 1         3              11593.00 140.00 7416.00 63.00 7344.00 7344.00 734.00 7344.00 7344.00 234.00 2344.00 2344.00 234.00 234.00 2314.00
=lLa II iD a.m T18.0 1403.37420.00  6530                          73.00 7W.0 7347.90 734.30 73430  234550 234.20 23.70 2346.50 24.0 2347.20
_U   II L          IEI _5M   -1330 -14014.3 16n.00 124.00 11.09 11W.93 1115.45 11561.  11562.00   6.11 1.01                 4.93  1565.  165.72 16570.24
Intetfial Rfttof Rnture of Not Stream
NTOT                        2".



Annex 10
Zimbabwe                                 Table 4
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
One Nectars Mode  for Sel Ibolder Woodlot
Labor         unit   1        2      3      4       5      8       7      8       9      1C      11     12      is     14      1S     16      37     16   19    2e
Land Clawig          16
Cultivation          15
Pi,tlng/sfIII         5
Platies              6
bainteance
let yur             16
tad piea                     15
Srdjuar                              0
Protoct 1on           1
post Harv.arbint.                                           a
Subtotal (endays)   60        15      6                     S                                            a                                    a
Coot of Labor
O 84.68/3D:
2t6      69      27                     14                                           14                                  14               0
&"drlIn-p 2/    
Sub-total           297
Total COt.         5 2       6a     27                     14                                           14                                   14
senef lts
puN>ewo pol.e (solid   )                                   so                                                                   as a                           a3
Protection includa faening end temite control.
/ Based on unit nursery *.d bilah.eat  costs.
3/ Materalse include barbed wire, po_t, droppers end et4pler.



Annex 10
Table 5
Zimbabwe
Forest Resources Hianagement and Development Project
Annual Crop BUdgts for One Noctr. otf Ariculture Land
Cro.            Ara Planted        Revenue /          Input Cos"s        Labor Cost /       Total Variable Cost  Not SonefitS
&A               Zs                 Zs/he                Zs                    Zs                 Zs
MaIlm                0.4               106.0              107.6              71.1                178.6              7.0
CottO4               0.2               182.6              99.0               61.1                160.1             32.7
Growndwwu            0.2               116.3 80.4                            62.0                92.4              22.9
Sunflower            0 2               108.0              37.8               41.0                78.6              29.2
TOTAL PEO HA          1.0              591.70            284.7              235.2                499.9             91. 0
Revenve of each crop mm adjusted to roflect world market price.
/ quite often in one hectre annual oodes, labor coats are not included len vriable coats, instead the net benefit per man-day is
cwomuted. For purpoeof compring returns per hctare over 20 years betwen tree planting and agricultural crops It is
apprpr'liate to Include labor coats since these aIternative, have different labor requirements. Labor is costed at Z$4.66 which
roprensits its mrginal value In crop production.



Annex 10
Table 6
2imbabwe
Forest Resources Management and Development Project
Net Returns to One Hectare. 21 Year Cropping System and Three Rotations
Year                                     Net Benefits (ZSIha)
1                                                  91.8
2                                                  91.8
3                                                  91.8
4                                                  91.8
5                                                  91.8
6                                                  91.8
7                                                  91.8
8                                                  91.8
9                                                  91.8
10                                                  91.8
11                                                  91.8
12                                                  91.8
13                                                  91.8
14                                                  91.8
15                                                  91.8
16                                                  91.8
17                                                  91.8
i8                                                  91.8
19                                                  91.8
20                                                  91.8
PV of Net Benefits at 252 discount - Z$363.0



- 89 -
Annex 10
Table 7
Zimbabwe
Pcrest Resources Management and Development Project
One Hectare Model for Smallholder Woodlot
Year                            Costs                               Benefits
(2$/ha)                             (Solid m3)
1                               552
2                                68
3                                27
4
5                                                                       30
6                                14
7
a
9
10                                                                       30
11                                14
12
13
14
15                                                                       30
16                                14
17
18
19
20                                14                                     30
PV of Costs at 25Z               502.3
PV of Benefits at Z$60/m3 at 25Z                                        868.2
PV of Benefits at Z$371m3 at 252                                        502.0
Net PV at Z$601m3                                                       365.4
Net PV at Z$371m3                                                         0



Zimbabwe             b
Forest Resources Kanagement and Development Project
FOREStRY COlllltSS10" OI6;AIZATIOEAL jNART
CT~~
l l . ,17AM     w  I......                                                OOL
:.L,~ cr  ?&   c .r i l- L]1
T~~~                          m
i 3 E i                ~~~~~trWDW1
v   ,                            ,   ~~~~~~~~~~lxa m



IBRO 21601R
ZIMBAIWE
t  zauam4,                                FORMST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LAND aLASSIFCAION
k% ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 
- >'< S'd's^'                                         4 
i' '
;ww"m VA
~.-.                                                     A 
IOTSWAN A
____________     J  O  B   OtS WANA                                    U.
MOZAMBIQUE
_~~  SOUTIH Af RICA     
UM 1.
MARCH t990



