Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Repwot No. 8613
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 1842-EGT)
MAY 4, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regi^nal Office
Thi document has a resricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
ther offiec  dudes. Its contnts may not otherise be disclked without World Bank authorization.



ACRONYMS
BOA      -     Bank of Alexandria
CBE      -     Central Bank of Egypt
DIB      -     Development Industrial Bank
IMDBI    -     Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran
MIC      -     Misr Insurance Company
MIDB     -    Misr Iran Development Bank
PCR      -     Project Completion Report
PR       -     President's Report
SAR      -     Staff Appraisal Report
TA       -     Technical Assistance
J yISCAL DEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL US ONy
THM WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 2033
USA.
oa OCtoGmiwul
opw atm_ IvMaituim
May 4, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE    SIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Egypt
Misr Iran Development Bank Project
(Loan 1842-EGT)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Egypt - Misr Iran Development Bank Project (Loan
1842-ROT)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Yves Rovani
by RLm K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in thc perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorz*tion.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COt4PLETION REPORT
Rani
MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANR PROJECT
(LOAN 1842-EGT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .... ....... .***...... ............*.......  ***...*...... .*...  l
BASIC DATA SHEET ............................ ..................         iii
EVALUATION SMOARY ........ ... ... . .. .. .... .*.* .............         v
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW PRCM THE BANKS PERSPECTIVE .... ...  ....          1
I.  Proiect Identity . ............................                      1
2.  Economic and Policy Settint       .............................      1
Financial Institutions and Policy .... ......................        2
Banking Regulation .       ...................................       2
Industrial Sector Policy Issues   .........................          3
Conclusions      3............................................       3
3.  Proiect Objectives and Descrigtion .....        .................    3
Background ....      .....                                           3
Loan Objectives ..................................                   3
4. Proiect Design and Execution           ............................   3
The Project    .... .....................      * ** * ** * ** ***    3
Design and Execution Problems ...........................            4
A.  Currency of Lending and Onlending Rates for
Bank Funds               .                                  4
B.  Exchange Risk         .....................................    4
C.  Exchange Rate                 ............                    5
Contract Amendment .....................................             5
Conclusions Regarding Project Design and Preparation ....            5
A.  Repricing Bank Funds ..............................            5
R.  Other Project Design Considerations ...............           6
Conclusions Regarding Policy Znvironment .....  .......  ....        6
The Technical Assistance Program ......       ..................     7
5. Loan O Prtf; ..olPgrfema .aee    I.......................e            7
8ub-Project Profiles.         .eeee....... . .
Sestoral and  nvestment its ...................                      8
Sub2oau Portfolio status                        . 
Conclusions                             .... ........... *.......... ........  11
This dument ha a resrctd disibution and may be usd by recpients only In the perfomance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclsed without IFC authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Page No.
6.  Sub-Proiect Appraisal and Creditworthiness Review .......                     11
Appraisal Capability ...             ........       ............... t.o..*   11
Conclusions .........**.*..to* *....*..  *a****e*... .......                 12
7.  Financial Operations ... ***** ....           *.................**...         13
Financial Structure ....... *......   .. ..... ......             ..         13
Equity Investment *...................t.                                     14
Conclusion             ........................*.to .........#.*a*...        14
Profit and Loss from Operations  .........................                   14
Financial Margins Under Loan 1842-EGT ...................                    15
Accounting .......... ,*  ......  04  ...                                    15
Conclusions  .............* .........**. ............                        16
8.  Summary of Results .......... ....*       .......... ....     ....... .       16
9.  General Conclusions and Recommendations   .................                   17
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ......                     19
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...            .........................         28
Table 1:  Characteristics of Sub-Projects Financed ............                     28
Table 2:  Status of Projects Financed by the Bank ...... ......                     30
Table 3:  Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1988 ...............                     33
Statement of Profit and Loss as of December 31,
1988 ............  ***............        .................to.........  35
Attachment
Comments Received from MIDB ..... ...............   ........... ..  ..              37 .



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 1842-ECT)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First Misr Iran
Development Bank (MIDB) Project, for which Loan 1842-EGT in the amount of
US$30.0 million was approved on May 13, 1980. The loan was closed on
June 30, 1987, two years behind schedule. Only about 792 of the total loan
amount (US$23.6 million) was disbursed prior to loan closing; the last dis-
bursement was on September 23, 1987.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Bank's Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office, Country Department III (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
The preparation of the PCR began with a Bank mission to MIDB in
January 1989. The PCR is based upon data obtained from MIDB and upon the
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2573-EGT), dated April 9, 1980; the President's
Report (No. 2780-EGT), dated April 18, 1980; the Loan and Project Agreements;
correspondence with the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and supervision
reports.
The draft PCR was sent by the Region to the Borrower for review.
The comments received from the Borrower are reproduced as an Attachment to
the PCR.



- iii _
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT gAmK PROJECT
(LOAN 1842-EGT)
BASIC DATA SHEET
LOAN POSITION
(Amounts in US$ Million)
As of Mar. 31. 1990
Original   Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaid    Outts.ding
Loan 1842-EGT       30.0         23.56         6.44     21.21         2.35
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBERSXEMEU
"SflO  FY   f     HUl  UL    fil   mis fL   fIB
Appraisal Estimate (USS N)  0.0   2.3  13.3  25.5  29.5  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0
Actual (US$ O)             0.0   0.0   0.3   6.5   9.0  16.0  18.0  22.3  23.6
Actual as 2 of Appraisal (M)  0.0X  0.0X  2.3X 25.5  30.52  53.3X 60.0X 74.3K  78.7X
Date of Last Disbursement: Septeamer 23, 1987
PROJECT DATES
Orilinal             Reuised/Acyal
Board Approval                  n.a.                  05113/80
Loan Signing                    n.a.                  06/04/80 La
Loan Effectiveness            10106180                12131180
Loan Closing                  06/30185                06/30/87
STM       INPUTS
(staff weeks)
fr  fu7  E      f 1n1 flu  f    u FY8  flX  F11  ur  frn   12ai
Preappraisal    34.1  1.3             -    -    .                         35.4
Appraisal       - 44.9  12.6    -                                          7 -    -    -    .    .    -   57.
Negotiations    -        9.8       -    -    -        -    -    -    -    9.8
SLpervfsion     -       -   0.2  5j  UL  iu  2L   1Z   _   j    1-9   23-7
Total       34.1  46.2  23.8  5.3  8.8  2.8  2.0  1.?    .  1.0  1.9  127.6
_a  Loan Agreement was amended on November 14, 1983.



- iv -
MISSION DATA
No. of     No. of               Staff    Date of
Month/Year   Weeks     Pgrsons   Weeks    Resort
Supervision I             05181       2.0           1      2.0    06/15/81
Supervision II            05/82       1.0           2      2.0    06/07/82
Supervision III           11/82       0.8           1      0.8    12/08/82
Supervision IV            09/86       0.2          6       1.2    09/30/86
Supervision V             10/87       1.0           3      3.0    11/24t87
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower: Arab Republic of Egypt
Executing Agency: Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB)
Follow-on Proiects
None



- v -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROKECT
(LOAN 1842-E6T)
EVALUAMTON SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       This is a project completion report (PCR) on the Bank's first
industrial development project through the Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB),
an Egyptian/Iranian joint stock company, established under Law 43 (on foreign
investment) in May 1975. MIDB was designed to serve as a form of merchant
bank to promote and finance larger projects. MIDB had at the outset a share
capital of US$20 million, fully paid in. The shareholders, each contributing
252 of the capital, were: Bank Melli, Iran; Industrial and Mining Development
Bank of Iran (IMDBI); Bank of Alexandria (BOA), Egypt; and Misr Insurance
Company (MIC), Egypt. As a joint venture bank with only 502 Egyptian
ownership, MIDB could not deal in local currency. MIDB had been successful in
mobilizing local resources for its clients' projects, when required, primarily
from its two local shareholders: BOA and MIC. Ultimately it had to deal in
local currency as the interest and exchange rate policies made it difficult to
on-lend in foreign exchange. It initiated such dealing in 1983 when the
Government purchased Iranian shares and increased Egyptian ownership of MIDB
to 75%.
Objectives of the Loan
2.       The objectives of the proposed Bank loan to MIDB were:  (i) to
continue and expand the Bank's support to the building in Egypt of an
institutional capacity to provide financial and other support to the private
industrial sector that was started with Bank's assistance to the Development
Industrial Bank (DIB); (ii) to help MIDB fulfil its role of promoting/
financing medium and larger scale private sector industrial projects with
special emphasis upon the construction and capital goods manufacturing
industries, as well as export-oriented industries; and (iii) to contribute to
MIDB's institution building and training efforts.
Implementation Experience
3.       Disbursement of the loan started slowly as Loan 1842-EGT was
considered by potential borrowers to be excessively priced and risky compared
with other available term credit. The loan was amended in late 1983 to give
borrowers access to the central bank's preferred exchange rate and relief from
the cross currency exchange risk. On that basis, the loan began to move and
US$23.4 million was used for 13 sub-projects within 24 months. In 1985, the
Egyptian pound was devalued and the preferential rate moved from LE 0.84 to
the US dollars to LE 1.34, at which point most solvent borrowers negotiated
local currency loans to repay their dollar obligations. Overall, about 202 of



- vi -
the loan was cancelled and 252 repaid ahead of schedule. Regarding
institution building, during loan preparation the Bank was very active in
helping MIDB to organize and establish itself. The Bank had planned to
continue these efforts during the course of its loan supervision activity.
Clearly, opportunities for institution building were substantially
underestimated. Ultimately very little was done as Borrower-Bank contact was
minimal.
Results
4.       The Bank loan financed 232 of 13 sub-projects whose total cost
amounted to US$103.4 million. About 70Z of MIDB's sub-projects were for new
and mainly raw material import dependent, import substitution projects. Thus
the impact of the subsequent devaluations on the subborrowers' capacities to
sustain operations and repay dollar debt service charges was negative. Only
one-third of the sub-projects are currently operating normally and the
expected overall financial and economic results of the other eight projects
may not be achieved. MIDB's total exposure to doubtful or failing
sub-projects could be equal to or exceed US$23 million and the effects of the
project upon MIDB's financial structure will be substantially negative.
MIDB's concentration on high risk type of loans, e.g., capital intensive new
ventures, with new technology and untried management, was in line with the
loan's concentration objectives. This strategy ran counter to sound credit
risk management policy which was not established within MIDB. While
sub-project appraisals were well organized, and often well done, risk analysis
underestimated the negative impact of inflation and devaluation on debt
service capacity and the market analysis for new projects was not sufficiently
rigorous. Bank sub-project reviews failed to identify what proved to be the
main flaws in sub-project appraisal.
Sustainability
5.       MIDB was correctly viewed as a well structured and financed
development finance institution that possessed many of the basic requiremdents
for it to continue to grow and to operate on a profitable and sustainable long
range basis. Egypt's underlying monetary and financial policies, however, did
not provide the necessary foundation of interest and exchange rate policies to
support term lending operations in foreign exchange, which was the basis for
MIDB lending. MIDB's accounting and financial policies were negatively
affected by tax regulations affecting income recognition and provision
taking. MIDB accepted lending risks that could not be sustained in the
context of the surrounding policy environment. The low financial spreads of
2.252 and 3.302 permitted MIDB under the project were not adequate to cover
costs, provisions and provide MIDB with a real return on capital.  The Bank
Loan did not contribute to the financial strengthening of the institution.
Lessons
6.       The major lessons that emerge are:



- vil -
- Term lending in foreign exchange cannot be sustained on a sound
basis where there exists substantial distortions in interest and exchange rate
policies.
- Sound financial operations can be hampered by tax laws and
regulations that do not foster sound accounting and provisions policies.
- For Bank lending to contribute to the long-term development of
development finance institutions, underlying policy conditions must be
appropriate.
- The actions required to achieve the stated institutional objectives
of a project should be made explicit and put into a schedule of action.
- The Bank's capability to identify errors in sub-project appraisal
reports in the areas of marketing, appraisal of management skills or risk
analysis must be strongly qualified, if necessary, so as not to mislead DFIs
about what Bank approval of a sub-loan really means.



PELJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN l842-EGT)
PART II PROJECT REVIEW PROM THE BANR'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
1.01     This is a project completion report (PCR) on the Bank's first
industrial development project through the Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB),
an Egyptian/Iranian joint stock company, established under Law 43 (on foreign
investment) in May 1975. MIDB was designed to serve as a form of merchant
bank to promote and finance larger projects. MIDB had at the outset a share
capital of US$20 million, fully paid in. The shareholders, each contributing
25% of the capital, were: Bank Melli, Iran; Industrial and Mining Development
Bank of Iran (IMDBI); Bank of Alexaiidria (BOA), Egypt; and Misr Insurance
Company (MIC), Egypt. As a joint venture bank with only 50% Egyptian
ownership, MIDB could not deal in local currency. MIDB had been successful in
mobilizing local resources for its clients' projects, when required, primarily
from its two local shareholders: BOA and MIC. Ultimately it had to deal in
local currency as the interest and exchange rate policies made it difficult to
on-lend in foreign exchange. In 1983 the Government purchased Iranian shares
and increased Egyptian ownership of MIDB to 75%.
1.02     The loan was the first to MIDB, and the fourth DFC operation in
Egypt. The previous operations in Egypt included two IDA credits to the
former term lending department of BOA, which was later converted into the
Development Industrial Bank (DIB -- Cr. 412-UAR of FY73 and Cr. 576-EGT of
FY76) and a loan given to DIB in FY78 (1533-EGT). The primary function of
DIB, a public sector bank, is to promote and finance small and medium
enterprises, mainly in the private sector.
1.03     This project completion report was prepared by the Bank's Europe,
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office, Country Department III, on the
basis of data obtained during a Bank mission to MIDB in January 1989, upon the
Staff Appraisal Report No. 2753-EGT, dated April 9, 1980; the President's
Report No. 2780-EGT, dated April 18, 1980, correspondence with the Borrower;
internal Bank memoranda; and supervision reports.
2. Economic and Policy Settmn
2.01     During the 1950's dnd 1960's Egypt developed as a virtual command
economy with a dominant public sector, fixed, administered prices - including
exchange and interest rates - and a pattern of trade oriented heavily toward
eastern bloc economies. Beginning in 1974, the Government began to gradually
liberalize selected aspects of the economy with the aim of accelerating
development and stimulating foreign and domestic investment.



-2-
2.02     Fueled by a rapid rise in exports of petroleum at favorable prices,
as well as swelling remittances of workers abroad, Suez Canal revenues and
tourist receipts, the period from 1974-1980 saw inflows from these sources
grow by 402 per annum (from US$700 million to US$8,800 million). The economy
grew at 9S per annum during this period but with substantial distortions based
upon Egypt's controlled and/or fixed prices for consumer goods, energy,
transport and rent. Exchange rates were also fixed and were overvalued. The
resulting bias was to move productive investment and human resources away from
agriculture and toward the urban sector. Comparative advantage in industry
shifted toward energy and import and capital intensive activity. In mid-1981,
about six months after Loan 1842-EGT became effective, Egypt's foreign
exchange driven economy faltered as oil prices fell and the foreign exchange
and interest rate distortions reduced remittances and incentives to export
while expanding domestic consumption. The domestic consumption, capital
intensive nature of loans financed under Loan 1842-EGT reflect in some measure
the outcome of these policies (para 5.02).
2.03     Financial Institutions and Policy.  The financial system consisted of
the Central Bank cf Egypt (CBE) which regulates the banking sector and plays a
major role in the formulation and implementation of monetary and credit
policy. The banking sector expanded since 1974 in line with increased
business activity and the greater role played by the increasingly
sophisticated banking system. Credit to business continued to expand at an
annual rate oi almost 25S in the 1981-85 period and the banking sector grew to
about 80 banks of various types. Stock exchanges were established in Cairo
and Alexandria; they maintain thin secondary markets for the shares of a small
number of enterprises. The Capital Markets Authority, established in 1979 as
a regulatory body, is trying to promote the development of capital markets and
broaden the equity ownership of enterprises, for which the market is very thin.
2.04     The Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB) was created in 1975 as a
merchant bank to specialize in equity and term financing for mainly larger and
some medium-scale industrial projects. Initially a joint venture with several
Iranian banks, it is now owned 75S by Egyptian government banking and
insurance institutions and 25S by Iranian, government-owned, banking
interests. Small and medium-scale projects were and are mainly financed by
the Development Industrial Bank (DIB). Term financing for agroindustry and
agriculture is mainly supported by the Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit. A number of commercial banks engage in moderate volumes
of term financing of medium and larger scale projects. About 15% of loan
portfolios of commercial banks are credits that exceed one year. The major
banks, including MIDB, have in the past been subject to pressures to finance
favored development initiatives, whatever their merits. Recently banks have
been subject to pressures to reduce their aggressive efforts to collect on
delinquent loans and to advance rescheduling of destitute loans.
2.05     Banking Regulation.  The banking system was and is regulated by the
CBE. The CBE sets both passive interest rates and nominal lending rates for
local currency operations. They establish a highly detailed schedule that
specifies interest rates for 15 categories of deposit taking and lending
operations. These administratively set rates proved to be negative between
1977 and 1982 and may have been positive in 1983. Rates for commercial
foreign currency loans are set by the market as points over LIBOR. Interest
rates for official aid loans are determined ad hoc by the CBE who also sets
financial spreads for banks under such loans, generally at 2.5% which is
inadequate to provide for profitable operations.



-3-
2.06     Industrial Sector Policy Issues.  Egypt's transition from a largely
centrally planned system to a mixed market economy initiated in 1974 was
advancing slowly and with some difficulty. It was considered that the large
number of problems confronting the policy makers (including the need for
employment generation, higher exports, efficient utilization of capital and
the development of a coherent industrial sector strategy) could not be
resolved in the short run.
2.07     Conclusions.  Loan 1842-EGT was undertaken in a substantially
distorted macro-economic environment and with a banking system whose
capability to mobilize resources and make profitable loans was restricted in
line with CBE interest rate policy. Regarding these issues, Loan 1842-EGT
remained policy neutral, which was not unusual for DFI loans, during that
period.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.01     Background.  The initial request for a Bank loan in support of MIDB
was sent to the Bank by the Government in September 1977. To prepare and
appraise the project, Bank missions visited Egypt in January, March and July
1978 and to update the appraisal in October 1979. As approved by the Bank on
May 13, 1980, the project provided for a US$30 million loan to the Government,
the proceeds of which were to be used to finance mainly large and medium-scale
private enterprises, through MIDB.
3.02     Loan Obiectives.  The MIDB Project sought to:
(i)    build up in MIDB an adequate capacity for the promotion,
financing and other assistance to the private industrial sector;
(ii)    support MIDB in its role of promoting and financing of medium
and larger private sector industries with priority to:
(a) building materials and construction contracting (25X)
(b) capital goods manufacturing (252)
(c) export-oriented industry (25S)
(d) other viable industrial projects (25%)
(iii)    contribute to MIDB's institution building and training efforts;
and
(iv)    continue efforts to help MIDB's policy, operational and lending
strategies and plans.
3.03     It was expected that the institution building efforts (iii) and (iv)
would be provided by the Bank during the course of its supervision missions.
4. Project Design and Execution
4.01     The Proiect.  Consistent with its objective of resource transfer to
help finance medium and large-scale priority industrial enterprise and its
limited institutional development goals (para 3.02), Loan 1842-EGT was simple
in its design (para 4.08). The loan did establish specific sub-sectoral
lending objectives and priorities, including an objective to use 25% of loan
funds to finance the development of a capital intens've, technology-rich



-4-
capital goods industry (para 3.03). The loan did not provide for a
corresponding mechanism for monitoring the achievement of sub-sectoral lending
targets or for promotional mechanisms. These lending goals were not reached.
4.02     The technical assistance component of the project was very limited in
scope and content (para 4.09). During project preparation the Bank played a
productive and valuable institutional development role as the missions helped
MIDB's senior management to prepare key policy and procedures documents and to
deal with organizational issues. On the basis of experience gained during
preparation, it was expected that continued technical assistance to MIDB could
be provided by the Bank as a part of an ongoing loan supervision process. The
objectives and scope of these technical assistance (TA) activities were not
defined in operational detail, thus, neither work programs nor manpower
requirements were presented. Ample evidence exists to conclude that
(i) MIDB's TA requirements were greater than expected, and (ii) even the
modest TA expectations of the SAR remained unfulfilled (para 4.07).
4.03     Design and Execution Problems
A. Currency of Lending and Onlending Rates for Bank Funds. The SAR did not
adequately address the difficulties inherent in attempting to successfully
price and market Bank funds in the distorted financial monetary environment
that Egypt was experiencing at the time of the loan. Because MIDB was founded
as a joint venture company, with 501 foreign ownership, it was prohibited from
lending in Egyptian Pounds (LE), thus, the proceeds of Loan 1842-EGT were to
be used for foreign exchange lending. Egypt's monetary authorities maintained
a multiple exchange rate regime and fixed interest rates for both deposit
taking and lending operations. Lending rates were initially set at 11.0%
which provided a marginally positive rate in real terms.
B. Exchange Risk. The Government was not prepared to accept the
cross-currency exchange risk (i.e. the exchange risk between the Bank's pool
of currencies in which Bank funds are denominated and disbursed and the
dollar) for MIDB, as it had for the Development Industrial Bank under the
Bank's Medium and Small Industry Project (Loan 2074-EGT). Thus, Loan 1842-EGT
was to be repassed by the Borrower to MIDB on Bank terms and conditions and to
be onlent to Egyptian industry as foreign exchange subloans with sub-borrowers
assuming the full foreign exchange (the exchange risk between the Egyptian
pound and the dollar) and cross-currency risks of the loan. MIDB would
ultimately assume the exchange risks for failed projects. Loan funds under
the MIDB project were considered by potential borrowers to be excessively
priced and risky and the loan was not committed until the exchange risk issue
was resolved in November 1983 (para 4.05). The prospect of facing an
open-ended cross-currency exchange risk premium was not acceptable to Egyptian
industrial borrowers, who in the end proved to have sound judgment"'. The
cross-currency risk premium, as of December 31, 1988, was US$2.93 million
based on the outstanding historic loan balance of US$8.42 million.
1/ This issue was resolved when an amended Loan Agreement became effective in
November 1983 (para 4.05). Under the amendment the Government agreed to
assume the cross-currency exchange risk for which MIDB provided them with
a commission of 3.722. The total cost of Bank funds to MIDB was 11.972
plus commitment fee. MIDB onlent at about 15% in US$.



C. Exchange Rate. The Government would not agree to make available to
borrowers under Loan 1842-EGT the CBE's preferred exchange rate, which had
been made available to DIB's borrowers. The preferred CBE exchange rate was
in 1983 LE 0.84 to US$1.00. MIDB borrowers would, at that time, have been
required to exchange their local currency at the CBE's free rate of LE 1.16
for US$1.00 when they sought to repay their foreign exchange denominated
debt. Under the CBE's multiple exchange rate policies there were no
assurances that the differences between the preferred and free rates would not
spread, to the further disadvantage of the MIDB borrowers.
4.04     Investors appear to have found it difficult to analyze the real costs
of Bank funds, compared with the costs of alternative sources, in view of the
uncertainties that faced investors when using Bank funds in Egypt's unsettled
monetary and financial policy environment between 1981 and 1983. The
unanticipated slow pace of loan disbursement during 1981-83 resulted
in an agreement to amend the Loan Agreement in late 1983 and to give MIDB
borrowers access to the CBE's preferential exchange rate plus relief from the
cross-currency exchange risks (para 4.05). Finally, the flight of a number of
sub-borrowers from Bank funds, by their prepayment of a high percentage of
subloans in 1985, all attest to the difficulties experienced in DFI
projects in setting the right onlending conditions in: (i) a tightly
controlled financial market that operated with multiple, fixed exchange rates
and administered interest rates, or (ii) attempts to use the Bank's pool of
funds as the DFI's media of exchange when (a) other foreign exchange
operations were being conducted using a single currency, or (b) other
operations are being conducted in local currency.
4.05     Contract Amendment.  Onlending conditions were renegotiated in late
1983 as an alternative to cancelling the still unutilized loan. As MIDB was
by then 75% owned by the Bank of Alexandria and other agencies of the
Government, the Borrower agreed to accept the cross-currency exchange risk for
a fee and to provide MIDB's sub-borrowers with access to the preferential CBE
exchange rate. On that basis, US$23.4 million was disbursed for 13
sub-projects within 24 months. In 1985, in the midst of a general devaluation'
the CBE raised its preferential exchange rate from LE 0.84 to LE 1.34 to
US$1. At that moment almost all solvent sub-borrowers under the loan
negotiated local currency credit lines and used their own funds to pre-pay
their outstanding MIDB foreign exchange loan balances (para 5.03). Two major
insolvent borrowers were refinanced, in local currency, by MIDB itself to
repay Bank loans (para 5.03). Taking into account the US$6.4 million in loan
balance cancelled at the time of loan closing at the end of 1987, and US$8.5
million of subloan prepayment, only about US$15.1 million of the US$30 million
project was actually used, as intended, for term financing.
4.06     Conclusions Regarding Project Design and Preparation
A. Repricing Bank Funds: Setting a competitive price for Bank funds
for the MIDB project proved to be more difficult than expected as a result
of: (i) the multiple currency make-up of the Bank's pool of foreign funds,
(ii) the volatility of the foreign exchange markets, and (iii) the CBE's
administered multiple exchange rate and fixed interest rate regimes and the
resulting complex problems that needed to be resolved when converting loan
funds to or from local currency.



-6-
B. Other Project Design Considerations: The experience of the MIDB
project indicates that for the Bank and Government to successfully advance
this first MIDB project and for MIDB to have been able to make competitively
priced loans to industrial enterprises, without undue risk to itself and to
its client and excessive cost to the Government, the following conditions
would have usually needed to prevail:
(i)    the Government's interest and exchange rate regimes would be
substantially liberalized and in equilibrium and prices for
loans, deposits and major money market instruments would reflect
market conditions;
(ii)    the foreign exchange resources being provided by the Bank would
have needed to be de-coupled from the funds used by MIDB for
project lending. The Government would have used the proceeds of
the Bank loan for its own purposes and would have onlent the
local currency equivalent to MIDB at the current, financial
market determined rates that approximate the market rate for
term deposits or the treasury note rates, etc. Thus, Bank
foreign currency funds and their terms and conditions would have
been de-coupled from the terms and conditions prevailing in the
local financial markets;
(iii)    sub-borrowers could have used the proceeds of the local currency
loans to acquire the foreign exchange needed for project
implementation at prevailing foreign exchange market rates which
would have placed them on a parity with other borrowers; and
(iv)    the Government could have used the foreign exchange proceeds of
the Bank's loan for its current productive purposes while taking
appropriate measures to hedge its foreign exchange risks.
C. An SAR prepared for a project in which Bank funds would be
intermediated through a DFI, such as this MIDB project, should identify in'more
detail how all of the major issues affecting the use of Bank funds have been
resolved, including:
(i)    competitive pricing of Bank funds and how the issue of
cross-currency exchange risk costs have been resolved;
(ii)    the capacity of the DFI to bear the foreign exchange risks of
failed projects; and
(iii)    the ability of the Government to use the foreign exchange
proceeds from the Bank loan and the measures taken to assist the
Government to hedge these risks.
4.07     Conclusions Retardint Policy Environment.  The slow pace of
disbursement and use of loan funds encountered by Loan 1842-EGT highlights the
difficulties faced in project design and pricing when the borrowing country's
exchange and interest rate policies are distorted (at the time of the loan,
Egypt maintained a multiple exchange rate regime and interest rates on
deposits were fixed below the rate of inflation). Bank funds can be used most
efficiently by real sector sub-borrowers when they are available in local
currency. Such onlending conditions can best prevail when interest and



-7-
exchange rates reasonably reflect market conditions and expectations. On that
basis, the Government using available hedging techniques could accept to
receive and repay Bank loans (as it would any other foreign exchange loan used
to finance public or real sector requirements for growth) at minimum future
budgetary costs. Where exchange and interest rate policies are distorted, the
Bank's multi-currency pool of funds would generally need to be onlent in
foreign exchange, with the attendant problems of interest rate and currency
risks that can sometimes make Bank funds too complicated and expensive to use
competitively. Loans would face the class of problem initially encountered in
the MIDB loan, e.g. slow commitment and disbursement, high failure rates. In
the case of Loan 1842-EGT, there was also the high cost to MIDB for the
ultimate assumption of the foreign exchange risks of failed sub-projects that
were imported raw material and capital goods intensive, as a result of the
then prevailing overvalued exchange rate (para 5.03).
4.08     The Technical Assistance Program.  A major objective of the loan was
to help improve MIDB's overall institutional capability as a
development/merchant bank. This task was to be accomplished during the course
of the Bank's routine loan supervision activity as MIDB was rightly considered
to be one of the better state-owned banking institutions in Egypt. It remains
a serious, professional organization with a management that desires to improve
all possible aspects of its operation, enhance its profitability and financial
strength. Its presents limitations as an institution result in substantial
measure from external macro-policy variables (paras 2.03, 2.04, 2.05) as well
as from a need to improve professional skills and procedures. During the
early stages of project preparation the Bank's staff was very influential in
assisting MIDB to develop and adopt an initial policy statement that helped
MIDB to define its financial structure and its procedures for loan appraisal
and approval.
4.09     As a result of the Bank's initial high level of professional
involvement, many of the policy elements required to advance MIDB's
performance were in place at the time of the loan. MIDB's management was
receptive to Bank assistance and there was ample scope for further assistance
to MIDB to help it improve its credit and risk management operations and
procedures, establish more appropriate accounting policies (making and
accounting for provisions and taking and suspending income) and to install an
improved financial information and management system. Based on the status of
MIDB's loan portfolio, there appears to have been scope to improve aspects of
MIDB's loan appraisal and credit management process and the administration of
debt collection and supervision.
4.10     Conclusions.  The proposed design for technical assistance was modest
given MIDB's status of a new financial institution, its prospects for
Lmprovement and management's stated desire to improve Its efficiency and
productivity. It is highly unlikely that MIDB's potential for improvement
could have been realised with a technical assistance program limited to
supervision misslons undertaken on a twice a year, four weeks per year,
basis. In the end, the Bank did not fulfill its limited supervision
objectives. In the 45-month period from December 1982 to September 1986 only
4 man-weeks of Bank staff time was spent on relevant field supervision.
It is likely that more tim  ha  been spent on KIDS than is reported
because missions that visited ggypt to supervise DIB, or on other busines
may bave visited KIDD but may not have reported on the time spent or on
the issues through the Form 590. Most of the limited supervision effort



-8-
was devoted to problem solving. Field supervision activity declined to zero
during 1983-85 as a result of a major impasse in macro policy dialogue and a
breakdown in project preparation activity. Thus, the fulfillment of the
institutional development objectives of Loan 1842-EGT became the victim of
other concerns.
4.11     In preparing a first Bank operation with a new financial institution,
the role of institutional development should be presented in adequate detail.
The institution building objectives of Loan 1842-EGT were inadequately
detailed in the SAR. The opportunities for creating technical improvements
and meeting MIDB's needs for improved methods and procedures and for manpower
training in credit and project analysis may not have been fully appreciated;
had they been, then MIDB's long-term technical assistance and systems building
requirements might not have been scheduled in the context of normal project
supervisory activity. It would be productive if, during the preparation of an
initial loan operation, a program of assistance is detailed and oriented to
achieve the agreed upon objectives. The program would identify the resources
needed to finance this program and the possible sources of its funding. This
initial technical assistance plan/program would be periodically updated as new
needs and opportunities emerge. Thus, the SAR would provide adequate
attention to detailing the need for assistance and how and along what time
frame the assistance could be provided.
5. Loan Portfolio Performance
5.01     Sub-Project Profiles.  Total investment under Loan 1842-EGT amounted
to an estimated US$103.4 million, with one major paper mill project accounting
for 25% of the total. Bank financing amounted to US$23.6 million or 23% of
total investment costs for the 13 sub-projects financed under the loan. The
average subloan was US$1.8 million, close to project expectations. Loan
1842-EGT turned out to be an exceptionally high risk project as almost 70% of
the sub-projects financed, and more in amount, were newly created enterprises,
which is reflected in the high percentage of non-performing Bank-financed loan
portfolio (para 5.03). MIDB does not have an explicit credit risk management
policy nor has it developed a network of limits against which to measure its
lending activity.
5.02     Sectoral and Investment Mix.  The original requirement under the Loan
Agreement E(para 2.02(a)(i)(ii)(iii)] was that investments for the
construction, capital goods and export industries each account for 25b of
total loan disbursement. Disbursements for the construction industry
accounted for 7.42 of total. One failing export-oriented sub-project amounted
to 112 of total disbursements while no capital goods industry projects were
financed. Disbursements failed to meet the sectoral objectives embodied in
the Loan Agreement as the project financed mainly large import substitution
ventures. Four of the five largest projects accounting for half the funds
disbursed were designed for import substitution purposes. These import
substitution projects appeared to be highly profitable when Egypt's exchange
rate was fixed and overvalued and price and trade policies favored raw
material imports. Capital goods industry sub-projects were not presented for
financing. The sectoral lending objectives of the Project were neither
enforced nor formally altered.
5.03     Subloan Portfolio Status.  The following indicates the status of the
individual subloans financed under Loan 1842-EGT.



-9-
Portfolio Status
Loan 1842-EGT Financed Sub-Projects
(Millions of US$)
Amount of                                  Loan Balance
Name of Proiect        Disbursement       Status of Proiect          Outstanding
(US$)                                          (US$)
A. Normal Projects
1. Misr Air Conditioner    2.8       Operating normally                  0.5
2. National Drilling         3.0     Operating normally                  1.7
3. Arab Porcelain Co.        0.9     Operating normally                  0 (Prepaid)
4. A. Maharem Textiles       0.5     Operating normally                  0 (Prepaid)
5. Nile Clothing             0.8     Operating normally                  0 (Prepaid)
B. Special
6. Misr Investment
Finance                 0.9      Reorganizing                        0
Total Normal Projects  US$ 8.9                                       US$ 2.2
C. Problem Proiects
7. Ready Made Garments       2.6     Attempting to rehabi-               2.3
litate a failing ope-
ration working at very
low capacity. Low
prospect for positive
financial result.
8. Pyramides Paper Mill    5.1       Attempting to revive a  ---------0----------
failed operation.  Low  MIDB provided funds
prospects for positive  to repay Bank loan.
financial return.        Total MIDB exposure
is US$5.5 equiva-
lent.
9. International Blankets  2.7       Reviving a failed ope-              2.1
& Textiles                        ration.  Rescheduled,
etc. Low prospects
for positive financial
return.
10. Arab Ceramic Co.         1.8     Attempting to solve pro-            1.6
duction problems and
increase sales. Pros-
pect for positive finan-
cial return is low to
moderate.



-10-
Amount of                                Loan Balance
Name of Proiect        Disbursement     Status of Project          Outstandin8
(US$)                                         (US$)
11. Misr Iran Building      1.7     Attempting to solve
Materials                       problem of competition  MIDB provided funds
from low cost produ-    to repay Bank loan.
cers running illegal    Total MIDB exposure
operations.  Low to      is USS8.6 equiva-
moderate prospects       lent.
over longer term.
12. Roma Macaroni Factory  0.4      Attempting to solve ma-            0.3
nagerial problems. Fair
prospect for success.
13. Misr International      0.4     Liquidator attempting   ---- -O-- -
Furniture                       to salvage a company    MIDB provided funds
whose product line is   to repay Bank loan
not selling by use of   Total MIDB exposure
plant for other wood    to project is US$2.6
products and possible   equivalent.
export.
Total Problem Loans   US$ 14.7                                   US$  8.5
Estimated Additional Financial Exposure                          US$ 17.2
Gross Total Current Exposure to (1842-EGT) Problem
Sub-projects                                                   US$ 25.7
Loan Balances
Total Normal and
Problem Loans       US$ 23.5                                    US$10.7
5.04     Of the 13 subloans financed under Loan 1842-EGT (shown above) five
sub-projects, accounting for 34% of total disbursement, are operating in
normal condition. These projects are expected to fulfill or exceed their
projected financial and economic rates of return targets. Three of these
sub-projects have prepaid their Bank loans to escape from the foreign exchange
risks of the loan.
5.05     Eight other sub-projects accounting for 66% of the US$23.6 million
disbursed are shown above as problem loans. MIDB prepaid almost US$8.5
million to the World Bank to relieve these problem loans from the additional
foreign exchange risks and costs and to restructure the pre-paid projects.
MIDB's exposure under the original larger scale Misr/Iran joint venture
operations (building materials, furniture, clay brick) exceeds US$16.7
million. For three of these eight sub-projects no financial or economic
internal rates of return were provided by MIDB, mainly because the sub-loans
were below the free limit. For the remaining five sub-projects, the estimated
financial internal rate of return for one sub-project was 12%, for another 18%
and for the other three 25% or larger; while the estimated economic internal



-11-
rate of return ranged from 16% to 58%. These sub-projects will likely not
realize their expected financial and economic rates of return because of the
prolonged period over which they have faced problems.
5.06     Conclusions.  (a)  MIDB's lending under Loan 1842-EGT was
substantially and probably excessively directed toward the highest risk type
of loan, e.g. new ventures, new technology, capital intensive, with new and
untried management teams. (The summary of reasons why each sub-project failed
to achieve its objectives is shown in Part III, Table 2, pages 1-3). The
objective of allocating 75S of the Bank's loan to three sectors, which would
have accounted for about 301 to 502 of MIDB's term portfolio at the time, may
run counter to sound risk management practices. The basis for that decision
and for the loan covenant is provided in the SAR, but the impact upon MTDB in
case it turned adverse was not included. A credit risk policy that is
flexible but limits investment in new/pioneering projects to a realistic
percentage of loan/equity portfolios may be worth establishing for each
medium/large-scale industry lending operation. Over the longer term, a major
objective of Bank-financed DFI projects would be to help the financial inter-
mediaries to develop appropriate credit risk management policy and procedure.
(b) Egypt's policy in the early years of the loan favored import
substitution industry by making low cost foreign exchange and financing
available. The biases induced by this policy may be traced in the sub-project
selection list (Part III, Table 1, page 2) which included (i) a large
percentage of capital intensive projects oriented towards domestic con-
sumption, and (ii) a high percentage of sub-projects that failed to meet
financial and economic goals because their costs of raw materials imports and
financing surged as exchange rates were adjusted.
(c) MIDB's total exposure (including loans and equity investments,
capitalized interest and equity conversions) to doubtful or failing
sub-projects financed under Loan 1842-EGT amounts to an estimated US$23
million. While some projects may be salvaged in whole or in part and the
liquidation of some other projects will cover investment, nevertheless, it is
expected that MIDB could suffer losses that could weaken its capital structure
(Part III, Table 3, page 2).
6. Sub-Project Appraisal and Creditworthiness Review
6.01     Appraisal Capability.  MIDB's professional staff generally presented
a well organized sub-project appraisal to the Bank. Production cost estimates
were adequately detailed as were financial forecasts and multi-year production
and financial forecasts, along with a risk analysis (all calculated by
computer). Overall, MIDB's project appraisal capabilities are of a relatively
high level compared with those of other DFIs in similar environments. MIDB's
sub-project submissions to the Bank meet most of the Bank's criteria for
adequacy and most projects were approved for financing as presented. The Bank
made few if any written comments on the above free-limit sub-project
appraisals that were presented to the Bank. The Bank's sub-project review was
made against a highly detailed checklist that contained every appropriate
variable involved in an investment decision. The review process, however,
failed to detect weaknesses in the appraisals for the sub-projects that failed.
6.02     The following conclusions may be drawn from the data available from
sub-project files and discussions with MIDB.



-12-
(a) The Bank's checklist and MIDB's appraisal reports were well
organized and inclusive of all the key appraisal variables. Their standards
for what constitutes an acceptable proof of a sub-project's creditworthiness
were for some cases not sufficiently rigorous, especially for new projects.
(b) MIDB's appraisal reports focussed on detailing production
processes and costs and financial forecasts under various risk, cost and
demand assumptions. Bank appraisal review appeared to be centered around the
forecasting and economic modeling aspects of the project. Where IFC technical
comments are available, they were well focussed and highly relevant to the
engineering processes selected and to input pricing assumptions.
(c) The maior real causes of sub-project failure proved to be:
(1) Inadequate management,
(2) Inadequate marketing,
(3) Inadequate pilot production testing;
(4) Projects were large and ambitious and start-up for these
complex projects was costly and delayed. Investments
should have been staged for slower and more organic growth; and
(5) The extent of the LE devaluation possibilities was
underestimated.
Five large projects failed substantially because their managements were
inadequate to organize, plan for and execute their projects. Two major
projects failed because there proved to be small market prospects for their
products given the reality of style, price or quality presented.
(d) The major problem in forecasting was the assumption that foreign
exchange costs would only increase by 40% over the life of the project. In
fact costs of foreign exchange increased from LE 0.84 to LE 1.80 to US$1 and
projects that were heavily dependent upon raw material imports (especially for
wood pulp, timber and fibers) have suffered, some have died "-
6.03     Conclusions.  As indicated above, MIDB's sub-project appraisals under
Loan 1842-EGT were of relatively high standards in terms of organization,
presentation and the methodology applied. But clients should have provided as
a condition for sub-loans more positive proof of (i) the marketability of new
products, or (ii) the capability of a project management team to plan for and
advance a complex project. These areas could have been the subject of
productive discussions between the Bank and MIDB and should have been areas
for which technical assistance was provided.
l/ To assist DFIs to establish appropriate forecasting assumptions with respect to
devaluation impacts, it would be useful to review general experiences with
devaluation in other relevant countries. There exists ample experience in Bank
loans around the world, during 1988-89 to indicate that devaluations of the
order of lOOS to 2002 could be expected in countries similar to Egypt's
economic and policy circumstances.



-13-
6.04     To some extent MIDB accepted the Bank's sub-project approval as a
final signal of sub-project creditworthiness. The Bank's sub-project approval
process is not designed to second guess sub-project creditworthiness because,
among other things, the Bank is rarely in a position to make sound judgments
on the adequacy of the underlying guarantees or the quality of the Loan
Agreement. The Bank's sub-project review is designed to appraise the
completeness of the DFI's appraisal. Because the Bank is not on the local
scene, the questions and the issues raised are normally focused on sub-project
operations, and rarely on marketing, distribution or other more subjective
areas. In that context, it might be useful to explicitly state to DFIs that
the Bank's approval of a sub-project does not mean that a judgment has been
made as to sub-project's creditworthiness and prospects for success.
Alternatives might be for the Bank to (i) stop looking at projects for
anything except consistency with the JLoan Agreement, or (ii) adopt an approach
akin to the direct appraisal of a project by devoting more time to individual
sub-project reviews using staff or consultants that have the experience and
skills to judge the adequacy or inadequacy of the information provided on
management and administration and the proofs offered that the marketing and
distribution assumptions are well founded and have been adequately tested and
researched. It is not clear that the Bank has been able to apply the
necessary time and skills to sub-project review to identify weaknesses in
process, especially in the more subjective areas of management, distribution
and marketing, which is what the free-limit review system may be thought to
provide. There is a need to carefully examine the extent to which the Bank is
organized to make a contribution to all aspects of the sub-project review
process. If it is not, it should consider qualifying the meaning of its
approval.
7. Financhd Operations
7.01     Financial Structure.  MIDB had US$401.8 million in total resources as
of December 31, 1988. Capital and reserves represented 132 of this amount
which should be adequate capitalization to support a DFI that has a high
percentage of short-term operations (para 7.02). 69.4S of MIDB's resources
were short-term deposits and placements by commercial banks and
correspondents, 5% medium-term CDs and 2% World Bank term resourcesl'.
MIDB's term resources are currently a decreasing percentage of the total
(Part II', Table 3, page 2). In 1985 term resources vere 2.82 of total lia-
bilities of US$367.5 million, currently they are 2.2Z of a reduced liability
base of US$350.3 million. In 1980 M1DB was still a large pool of funds
seeking market opportunities as 801 of its total resources were uncommitted.
Currently, MIDB faces a tight cash flow position arising from its low returns
on loans and investments and a deteriorating term loan portfolio.
7.02     Short-term placement of funds with banks and correspondents accounts
for 52% of MIDB's assets. Short-term loans and other short-term operations
account for an additional 10.5S (Part III, Table 3, page 1). MIDB's main
sources of income arise from its large-scale placement of short-term deposits
or purchase of CDs using the deposits placed by commercial banks (Part III,
I/ MIDB carries its provisions and other receivables accounts as resources
amounting to 10.5% of its total liabilities, in line with Egypt's
accounting standards.



-14-
Table 3, page 3). Margins on such operations are a low 0.751 on average
assets but risks and costs are small and the cash flow is used to sustain the
institutional overhead. MIDB's medium and long-term lending operations
account for 12.41 of total. These operations result in a negative cash flow
as the cost of such funds exceeds the effective yield.l/ Consirx-ent with its
mandate as a merchant bank, equity investments account for 7S of total assets
and yield a return of 2.042 p.a., well below MIDI's average cost of funds of
7.062 and average yield of 7.701.
7.03     Equity Investment.  MIDB's mandate to invest in equity positions has
proven to be more difficult to manage than expected. A key problem is the
absence of a satisfactory domestic equity market. Thus, MIDB is locked into
almost US$30 million in shares from which it cannot rapidly extract itself, at
reasonable market prices. Loan 1842-EGT provided that MIDB could borrow to
purchase equity in a sub-project that it would partially finance. MIDB has
made equity investments equal to about US$5.5 million in the companies
financed under the Bank loan, a small percentage of which was financed under
Loan 1842-EGT. Equity investments financed under the Bank loan have been
particularly burdensome, as MIDB is required to repay the Bank on the same
basis as the composite amortization schedule of the project, while MIDB's
equity investments are essentially frozen and are earning only small returns
(para 7.02) that are not adequate to cover MIDB's cash flow requirements for
repayments of principal and interest under the loan.
7.04     Conclusion.  A DFI's equity investments, made on borrowed funds, to a
new enterprise will generally result in a negative cash flow to the DFI, with
respect to its repayment of interest and principal. First, dividends on
investments are not likely to equal the interest cost of the borrowed funds,
at least in the short and medium term. Second, the DFI has low prospects for
early sale of shares to repay the Bank, on the basis of an average composite
amortization schedule, even with a substantial period of grace. Finally,
without an active capital market the DFI has to rely upon private placement or
resale of shares to the new company - prospectively without compensation
adequate to cover the risks and costs incurred. Under Loan 1842-EGT, MIDB
would carry the full foreign exchange risks of funds that it would borrow to
purchase equity, in addition to interest and commitment fees. It can be
argued that the Bank's foreign currency funds are too costly for equity
speculation. The cost and risks of equity investment when using Bank loan
funds were not fully examined during project development. Consideration
should be given to requiring that SARs, which provide for loans to support a
DFI's equity investment, undertake an analysis of: (i) the cash flow impacts
upon the DFI under the repayment schedule, (ii) the condition of the capital
market and its capacity to absorb secondary placements of equity and (iii) the
financial strength and maturity of the DFI and its capacity to make adequate
provisions for the more risky forms of investments.
7.05     Profit and Loss from Operations.  MIDB's gross operating profits from
banking activity has deteriorated substantially since 1980, when MIDB earned
1.5% on average assets from financial operations. In 1987 MIDB lost 0.3% on
1/ World Bank funds cost on average 11.38% and yield an estimated 9.95%,
taking into account suspended interest on legally failed projects. On a
true cash flow basis, MIDB's yield could be as low as 6% to 7%.



-15-
financial operations and in 1988 it is expected to earn a slim 0.12 (Table 3,
page 4).  Overall, MIDB's total earnings as a percentage of average assets
deteriorated from an excellent 2.5% in 1980 to 0.692 in 1988. This has
resulted mainly from the shrinkage of net interest margins from 2.41 to 1.3%
of average assets in the period. The reductions in margins are due to lower
interest collections ratios and to higher volumes of low margin, short-term
commercial bank placements (para 7.02).
7.06     Financial Margins Under Loan 1842-EGT.  As a result of its high
volume of commercial bank placements, MIDB's costs of operations are in line
with those experienced by the more efficient DFI. Loan 1842-EGT, however, did
not provide MIDB with the possibility of covering its costs of operations or
making provisions for loan losses while earning a return on capital equal to
the current average rate of inflation (15%). Given MIDB's 131 capital to
total asset leverage ratio (equal to a Debt/Equity ratio of 6.7 to l) to
achieve such a return MIDB would have to earn 2 percentage points of financial
spread (on average assets) just to provide for a 15% profit. MIDB requires an
additional 1.5 percentage points of financial spread to cover the
administrative and supervisory costs of lending operations and 1.0 percentage
point for provisions. MIDB's total minimum margin requirement of about 4.5
percentage points are very reasonable for a DFI operating on a low leverage
ratio. Loan 1842-EGT was initially designed to provide MIDB with 2.25
percentage points of spread, adequate to cover costs and provisions but not to
provide for a reasonable return on capital. Under the amended agreement a
spread of 3.03 percentage points was provided. After payments of costs of
operations and provisions, this spread provided MIDB with an inadequate return
of 4.071 on capital.
7.07     Accounting.  MIDB's accounts are maintained in accordance with
accounting standards prevailing in Egypt and in line with the reporting
requirements of the Central Bank. These standards and requirements may not be
optimum for the production of relevant financial statements and information
required for the analysis of a financial institution. Nevertheless, MIDB's
accounting/financial department does produce a substantial number of high
quality budgetary and cash position reports and evaluations that assist senior
managers to control financial operations in line with cash flow realities.
7.08     MIDB's financial reports are audited and approved annually by a
qualified external auditor, based upon local accounting policies and codes of
accounts acceptable to the CBE regulatory authorities. ITe auditors do not
comment on the adequacy or inadequacy of provisions for loan losses or policy
on income recognition. MIDB's accounts are an historic record of change using
consistently applied standards. The data are accurate but the accounts are
substantially less relevant than should be the case. Loan portfolio values
are the subject of substantial overstatement as there exists no objective loan
portfolio classification system and loan loss provisions are taken only on a
very small percentage of non-performing loans. Loan loss provisions are
determined by the Board of Directors following a review of the totally
destitute portions of the portfolio. MIDB's capital account is also inflated
by the profits that have been recorded in years when cash income was equal to
only 33% of income accruals. Income accruals could continue to be taken often
for years after payments have gone into arrears. Income accruals are
suspended only after loans move into legal action, which may be years after
total delinquency has been established. Thus, MIDB's income statements and
balance sheet values are overstated by some undetermined amount representing
income taken on delinquent and defaulted loans.



-16-
7.09     MIDB's provisions for loan losses are understated for two main
reasons. First, tax regulations do not recognize provisions as an expense
item unless provisions are applied against a specific measurable loss suffered
as a result of court determined liquidation action. From a tax point of view
provision taking is on a cash basis. This prohibits bankers from writing off
portions of loan portfolios over time against objective measures of loan
portfolio deterioration. Second, bank regulators do not require that:
(i) loan portfolios be classified; (ii) consistent measures be taken to
objectively establish annual provision levels; and (iii) income accruals be
suspended automatically after some uniform, reasonable period of non-payment
has been exceeded.
7.10     Conclusions.  Existing regulatory supervision of FiIDB does not
require that it maintain prudential standards with regard to establishing
balance sheet values for portfolio or taking of interest income. Thus,
current accounting practices and portfolio valtuation and provision making
policies as they reflect the requirements of regulators and tax authorities
are not adequate for the efficient financial management of banks. Tax
regulations penalize the banks that attempt .o follow conservative and
ccnventional policy for establishing loan loss reserves.  The existing
environment of tax policy, regulation and accounting convention are not
conducive to MIDB operating on a sound basis, although M.DB on its own has
attempted to operate on a sound system basis, to the extent possible. These
could be productive areas of World Bank concern in the future given its
successful involvement with the financial systems and regulatory practices in
other areas. Under Loan 1842-EGT these areas of policy and practice were not
pursued.
8. SummarY of Results
8.01     As a direct result of the loan, MIDB gained recognition and has
emerged as one of the more respected and better managed financial institutions
in Egypt. The Bank contributed substantially to the early development of
MIDB, especially in the key area of policy formulation, by its technical
assistance efforts that were integrated with the loan preparation process
(para 4.09).
8.02     The technical assistance objectives of the project, i.e., to continue
to help MIDB advance as a development/merchant banking institution, were not
achieved. It was expected that continued institution building of MIDB could
be accomplished during loan supervision which till the end of 1982 had
averaged about 12 man days per year. The SAR substantially underestimated
MIDB's needs and capacity to absorb assistance in the areas of project
appraisal, accounting and credit risk management, among others. Opportunities
to assist MIDB were also lost, as the institution viewed very positively Bank
assistance to them. Toward the end of the project, almost nothing was done in
the area of technical assistance as the Bank did not field a supervision
mission in the period from May 1982 till November 1986, as macro-issues
dominated Bank/country relations (para 4.10).
8.03     Regarding the direction and pace of loan disbursement, the objective
to provide financing in three priority sectors (exports, construction
industry, materials and capital goods) using 75% of loan resources was not
achieved as financing of these sectors was less than 20% of total.
Commitments and disbursement were slow, until the loan was amended in November



-17-
1983 to provide (i) that beneficiaries of the loan would not bear the
cross-currency exchange risk and (ii) that MIDB's borrowers would have access
equal to DIB's borrowers to the Central Bank's preferred exchange rate.
Commitments slowed again in 1986 as devaluations continued. At the time of
loan closing in 1987, US$6.4 million of the US$30 million loan was cancelled.
The loan did not disburse as expected during 1981-1983 because it was
mispriced. The SAR assumption that borrowers would accept the cross-currency
exchange risk for a small 0.05 percentage point proved to be wrong, and should
have been considered a project risk (para 4.04).
8.04     About two-thirds of the 13 sub-projects financed under the loan may
fail to yield positive financial rates of return. A significant, yet
undetermined number, may fail outright despite MIDB's best efforts to
restructure them. The expected economic benefits of the project may not be
achieved, given the status of major sub-borrowers (para 5.03).
8.05     The financial impact of the Bank loan upon MIDB has todate been
substantially negative. Ultimate losses are as yet not measurable, but MIDB's
current total exposure in overdues, equity, capitalized interest and
guarantees signed on behalf of its distressed and restructured projects could
be equal to US$25 million or possibly more. MIDB has a substantial negative
cash drain as a result of the Project as it has financed about US$8.5 million
in sub-borrower pre-payments of the Bank's loan, with its own shorter term
local currency resources. It undertook this action when a major devaluation
threatened to submerge a number of the weaker projects (para 5.03).
8.06     The narrow financial spreads allowed MIDB under the project
contributed to its financial distress. Based on its low leverage (132
capital/asset ratio), MIDB required a break-even spread of about 4.5S to cover
costs of operations, make provisions and earn a return on capital equal to the
rate of inflation (about 15%). The Bank loan initially provided 2.252 and
later a 3.032 spread which could cover MIDB's low operating costs, provide 12
for needed provisions and yield only 42 on capital (para 7.07).
8.07     MIDB has, since the loan ended, continued to improve its
organizational structure and has set up new internal capabilities to deal with
the difficult task of restructuring projects and liquidating closed
enterprises. To handle the impact of loan losses, it has substantially
increased its share capital and plans to make annual provisions for loan
losses of 1.52 of loan and equity portfolio for at least the next five years.
9. General Conclusions and Recommendations
The outcome of Loan 1842-EGT has demonstrated that:
9.01     Distortions in the exchange and interest rates created conditions for
investment that could not be sustained after the inevitable devaluations and
increases in interest rates. A number of major sub-projects made under Loan
1842-EGT failed, as terms of trade and costs of funds for import dependent
sub-projects became highly unfavorable. In the absence of appropriate
exchange rate and interest rate policies, the risks of term lending to MIDB's
clients became excessive.



-18-
9.02     The Bank's multi-currency pool of funds proved to be too special and
difficult to correctly price for re-lending by MIDB. This loan would have had
a better chance to succeed if the Bank's pooled foreign currency funds were
used by the government for its own general requirements, and in return the
government would have released counterpart local funds for use by MIDB for
project lending, priced in line with local market conditions with foreign
exchange for imports purchased by sub-borrowers at the prevailing free market
price.
9.03     In the absence of well founded, prudential banking regulation,
appropriate accounting practices and tax regulations (that encourage sound
banking practices), prospects are high that the financial institutions will
follow less than optimum accounting policy and practices with respect to
income recognition and making of loan loss reserves. Under such conditions,
prospects are less than optimum that the Bank-sponsored institution building
efforts that are directed at a DFI would achieve their objectives. In the
case of Loan 1842-EGT, inappropriate tax law regarding provisions, out-of-date
accounting and the absence of useful banking regulation all operated to
inhibit MIDB's financial management. This suggests that Bank loans directed
at financial institution building should rarely be considered in the absence
of complementary long-term programs to address the legal and institutional
restraints tc the financial efficiency of the DFI.
9.04     The slackening of institutional development efforts under this loan
altered the original key loan objective of institutional development. This
change in loan objectives resulted from a change in overall Bank/country
relations. There was no recorded statement of intention, and the issue of how
to amend project objectives in an ongoing project was not addressed. Given
the difficulty of maintaining full institutional memory and commitment over
the life of a project and to ensure that project objectives do not get dropped
inadvertantly or in the budget process without due notice and consideration,
specific action needs to be taken. A reasonable approach would be: First,
that loans that assert the importance of institutional development would be
required to provide in the SAR a detailed annex on the specific annual
manpower or other contribution that the Bank and other concerned parties would
make toward achieving assistance goals (paras 4.10-4.11). Second, during
periodic loan supervision, the Bank's compliance with its own stated list of
commitments to program objectives would be determined in the same fashion as
Borrowers' compliance with its commitments are measured and a compliance memo
be prepared. The PCR does evaluate the Bank's fullfillment of its project
commitments, but it comes too late in the project cycle to be helpful in
ensuring that loan objectives would actually be met.



- 19 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introductio:
In 1978, it becam  obvious that KIDB'. loan  and investant approvals ud
surpassed its long-tem resources.
In order to continue 'idin  new invotmaents, KIDS approachd 131  in an
attempt to acquire additional term resources.
Several IBWD missions visited KIDS and following their exmination of the
SaJk's activities, they conluded that  IDS was inded a suitable chuane for
IBRi assistance to the Egyptian industry. The mission  took into consideratio
MID;'8s success in boostimg private sector activity in Egypt which was looked
at as one of the main pillars for the success of the open door policy.
After lengthy negotiations between 3IWD, the Egyptian Government ad
KIDS, a loan agreement was reached on June 4, 1980.
A)  Prosect Descri0tion:
According to the Loan Agreement, MM30 agreed to lend KIDS, through the
Egyptian Covernment, an amount equivalent to US$ 30 million. This amout ma
to be used to provide foreign exchange for private industrial projects,
concentracting on export-oriented projects as well as those in construction,
contracting and capital goods sectors.
5)  Documents of the Loan:
The main documnts of the loan are as follows:
1.  The Loan sareement:
This was signed on June 4, 1980 between IBiD and the Egyptian Govezt at
allocating a long trm loan of US$ 30 million to be used -through KIDB- in the
financing of industrial development projects.
2.  The urolect agreesent:
This was signed on June 4, 1980 between IBRD and KIDS stating the
obligations of KIDS towards the execution of the Loan Agrem_t.
3.  The Subsidiary Loan hAremrnt:
This was signed betwoen the Egyptian Government and KIDS on November 3,
1980 relending the amount of the loan to KIDB and specifying the rules
regulating the relation between KIDS and the Government in this respect. The
loan was then declared effective on December 31, 1980.



- 20 -
4. Aireement modifvinz some of the rules of the Subsidilar Loan Atreemnat:
The loan was originally intended to bs repaid in U.S.Dollars. However,
the unfavourable exchange rate regime called for the alteration of those
conditions to allow sub-borrowers to repay_An Egyptian Pounds. Accordingly, an
agreement to that effect was signed between the Egyptian Government and NIDB
on November 14, 1983.
C)  Utilization of the Loan:
The total amount of the loan (US$ 30 million) was completely comtitted to
projects approved by 11DB. However, only an amount of USS 23,564,088 was
withdramw from the loan. It is worth mentioning that the utilization of the
loan,  since  it became  effective  in  December  31, 1980  and up-till  the
cancellation of its undisbursed balances on October 18, 1987, varied according
to the conditions applied concerning currency of repayment as well as the
general economic climate in Egypt.
Accordingly the life time of the agreement could be divided into three
main periods:
1.   From Dec. 1980 to Nov. 1983
The utilization of the loan was rather slow. The reasons behind this were:
First. the loan was to be repaid in U.S.Dollars. At the same time other
funds from IBiD and bilateral sources were made available to Egyptian projects
with the stipulations that repayment was to be effected In Egyptian pounds at
the official exchange rate. Such arrangements entailed a large subsidy
component as the official rate was lower than the market rate at all times.
Also many projects preferred to fix their debt liability in local currency by
borrowing Egyptian pounds and buying dollars in the open market. Second. the
fixed interest rate on the loan became unfavorable as the dollar interest
rates began to decline. Third, many of the loan conditions, especially those
related to TCQ and to the exclusion of some productive sectors such as
tourism, turned away many projects.
Under these conditions only 5 comitments totaling U.S.$ 7,556,000 were
approved during the above period, representing 25.21 of the total commitments
under the loan. Sald amounts were to be repaid in US dollars. The total amount
disbursed of those commitments stood at US$ 7,291,055 (about 96.5S of the
commitments). This total amount disbursed represents about 30.9% of the total
amounts disbursed from the whole loan.



- 21 -
2.   From -ov. 1983 to Jan. 1985
As the World Bank and the Government came to acknowledge the difficulty
in utilizing loan No. 1842 they agreed on November 14, 1983 to revise
repayment conditions to allotfsubborroweri to repay in Egyptian pounds.
As a result of this change, the years 1983 and 1984 witnessed an increase
in the number of IBRD approved financing. Ten new commitments were approved
(including a second financing to NIZACO) during that period, with a total
value of US$ 22,444,000 (about 74.8% of the total commitments). This figure
includes the amount of US$ 779,000 which was reallocated in 1986 to the Vile
Clothing Co.
3.   From Jan. 1985 to Oct. 1987:
Although the loan was fully committed in 1984, economic policy changes In
1985 necessitated a revision of the approved project list. Some projects wero
cancelled and others were sought. The economic policy changes of January 1985
were responsible for considerable pessimism on the part of investors, and tbey
accounted for financial hardships to many. Rectifying measures taken later in
the same year could not quickly improve the investment climate or remedy the
financial difficulties facing new investments.
on the other hand, the changes that took place in the exchange markts
created expectations of additional deterioration of the Egyptian pound.
Accordingly, many investors  shied away from  taking commitments at future
exchange rates. Also the decline in  the U.S.Dollar exchange rate abroad
increased  the  liability of  IBID borrowers as they had  to pay a higher
XRevaluation factor" which reached 1.40 at times.
As  a  result of the  above adverse  changes  the  loan  was no  longer
competitive. Moreover, equity participations in some projects were not called
in as quickly as planned, and one project, namely the I.V. Solution Company,
was cancelled. K1DB's efforts to attract new projects were not fruitful.
Accordingly, only an amount of USS 16,273,033 was disbursed out of the amounts
committed during 1983 and 1984 (US$ 22,444,000) i.e, about 72.5% of those
commitments, bringing the total amount disbursed from the whole loan to U8$
23,564,088 or about 78.5% of the amount of the loan.
D) Cancellation of the undisbursed balsaces of the loan:
Despite the extension of the closing date of the loan several times, it
became clear in 1987 that no effort could achieve the full utilization of the
balance of the loan. A decision was therefore taken to cancel the undisbursed
balances of the loan which stood atU.S.$ 6,435,912 and IBRD was informed on
Oct. 18,1987.



- 22 -
3.  General Evaluation of the loan:
The utilization tables of the loan reveal the following facts:
The total amount of the  loan  (US$30 million) was committed to 14
projects (15 approvals of which 2 for Kiraco). One Project (IV Solution)
was cancelled later bringing the number of projects financed to 13
projects.
Out of the total commitments, US$ 22,011,000 (73.4O) were in the form of
loans, and US$ 7,989,000 (26.5%) in the form of equity participation.
The amounts withdrawn from the loan totaled US$ 23,564,088 (78.5% of the
total amounts committed).
Out of that total, US$ 18,040,879 (76.6S) were in the form of loans, and
US$ 5,523,209 (23.4S) in the form of equity participation.
The Industrial sector's share  in  the toal committed amount was VS$
23,817,000 (79.41), while the financial and services sectors* share was
US* 6,183,000 (20.6S). The industrial sector's share of the total amounts
withdrawn from the loan was US$ 19,671,453 (83.51) while the share of the
finaneial and services sectors was US$ 3,892,635 (16.5).
The  private  sector's  share  in  the  total  committed  amount  was  US3
21,832,000 (72.8%), and the share of the joint venture projects (public/
private) was US$ 8,168,000 (27.20). No amounts were committed to the
public sector.
Meanwile, the share of the private sector of the total withdrawn ammunt
of the loan was U* 17,812,605 (75.6S) and the share of the joint venture
sector was US$ S,751,483 (24.4S).
Out of the 13 projects financed through the loan, 10 projects (77%) were
dometic  arket oriented and one project (7.7%) was export - oriented
while 2 projects (15.3S) were for both domestic and export markets.
Nine of the financed projects (69?). wer  new,while four (31?) wwer
expansions of existing projects.
Out of the 13 projects fin nced, five wero in new citis and eight in old
citis. Two projects wre in free sone area  and eleven were in-land.
As for the  size of the sub-projects, One project (7.71) wam ls"s than W8*
2 million, thre projects (23%) between 2-4 aillion 03 dollars, two
projects  (15.4S) between 4-5 million U8 dollas,   nd seven projects
(53.9%) exceeded US$ S million.



- 23 -
-    Rqpayment periods for projects ranged between 5-7 years.
-   The 13 projects financed 8enerated new employment totaling about 2467
workers.
-   -   The present status of each of the 1=projects financed through the loan
is stated in the enclosed table No.4.
In part one of the PCR it was mentioned that the Auditor's Report does
not include information about the adequacy of the provisions.
However, the auditor normally attends the meetiog of the Board of
Directors in which the audit report is discussed and makes a verbal statmemt
about the adequacy of the provisions.
It is worth mentioning that relations between IBD and KMDS were
characterized by full co-operation. The periods betwoen KIDS approvals of
projects and IBND approvals, ranged between one month and eleven months.
NMDB provided IBiD regularly with information required periodically or on
the occasions of visiting IBRD missions. Field visits were also arranged for
IBND representatives to projects sites.



TABLE NO, I
n   A!  o   2=   6816
APInVb                                OTS"
DAI or min      UTIl  an30 T3                            APFLICA?IUU*                             AJOuTM  V     UIIMO6CUALS    sEpawnEE?   ouTsTaUOCiU
wpPICNAL      OF P3Jg a               *o4r mLOA                   TOTAL      OA 0or gm80       CoMUtZMUSS     FMoE t1 O*ll305
t1) t9.4.19t1       Mist RuraA   Ce.             -      350.000      no,ooo       1.10.1401       Sept.31       8*trU112o
(ZFtOD) (ml)                                                                  350.C00
(2) 33.1.1951       e dy  ade ;gsumtas           -    3.0000        20.040000    1.10.1931       feb.12      7.570.303.31    2io143.43    3.393.U 1.9
(TAU6OSu) (An)          I                                                     2.104
(3) 32.5.1S        353*30(b_)   -                      , 1000,000   l.000.00      *4.2.193       Iacmb at       011.914.*2    9t1,914.42            -
4) 4*4.19SU       DrIllieg mIsC-(AO)            -   2.000000      3.000.000      4.8.19U2        h"6         3,993.461.6    1.6t21000.00   1.124.401.93
(5) 31.10.2933"*  "Tlase  PaPe ()        1.M,500.00   3.025.000    5.335.00       7.1.1933        Jan.33      S .0"9002.95   5.0S,00.3.9S           -
5.333.000 
(4) 17t.3.193 t      tsett Macatroni tt(1)       -        500.000    500,00t      22.4.1963.     Nareb 33      ,441,tl0.92    100.000.0o      341.010.92
5041.000      I 
t() 11.11.9"3      Arab Pereelo1a Co.t-12)      -      900.000       000.000      37.132.29 0     e. 62
"DION0        916.290.11    913,310.11
tO) 35.1.1933       atern tleaa S1lailmki  500.0o0    2.023.000    23542.000      15.11.1934     1eo04       2.694.047.8U    615.888.16   2.016.145.72
* ?aatlles Ca.(AOS)                                                           3.*543000
:9) 25.12.193      sltar lavestewt       3.133.090           -    3I.14.0         33.3.1934      Ju" 64         693.152.9      939.152.19           -
;10)10.10.1904    blncares UtAlWe               -      5005000      500.00       35.9.134        Ocobe 64    500,00.00'   500.00.00                                I
ledsstele  304)    *500.0o                                                                         .
:11)7.6.19t*4      Plo      t Zn. foe Clan'   1?7.Mie       -    1,fo0.0r0       15.11.Cy34     1.140 .00       .40.000.    1.140.000              -             Jb
U)t.6.1954 o1323C (24)              g   1.043.000      *29,00o     1395.000      15.11.1934      1.65.000   1.639.403.96   1.341.59".6       491.605.32
Arab Ce..1. Cerasle
3)3.0l.1964       Pr.S.st (AwC)                 -    1.3)5.000    1,315o00       15.11.19#4    Dh. 1994    1,19.944.04        184,444.04    1,433.500.00
1.61$1000
14)3.6.194        I.V.861"tUess(AGO)                 3,745.000    3.,45.000      15.11.1964      Uner4 Statwna
3.145.000                          -
15)13.2.194       Mtile Clothing Ce.lU3)        -      119,00       7t9.000      2.6.1954        30.9.93             -              -
11m,000       760,093.l      10,039.39            -
TOTAL                1.9t1t000  22,011,000   30.00t.uWo                       3o,000,000  3*544.09.00 o    15.59*55.38    11946.4)1.42
C) Stadow$ for 1"ading applcAtloec aboe the ftre  11.1t Oub.lcsn.
CS) "&nSs gw PeldIng w&liestloa, ble.lb t. fre  lIblt _ub-le
(a) St3t    fw 541141mg materials aed" s"telsa_tule
to) Staldsfo Lw eap1e 1eed".
(a) Studs for eupew edesled prejeet.
a')               ll1t of slgatere of t& lfear  Ir        t Ca. InMeeserd.01.
*"3               Lees esreessat Sined ma WiA  U.9.
ALt                                   I



-25-
TABLE NO. 2
Cv4AACT!RtST?CS OF SUB-PWOJECTS FINANCES
size or Sue-PqOJiCt
INTERVYLSCOOO'SS) ESTIHATE ACTUAL   ISSt?ATE1            ACTUALS
900-2000               1.00     1.00      7.69               7.69
2000-3000              1*00     2.00      7.*69             15.38
3000-4000         -   1.00      1.00      7.69               7.69
40C0-5C00              3.00    .2.00    23.08               15.38
5000-                  7.00     7.00-   53.85               53.83
SttE OF SUB-L0A4S
INTERVELSCOOOSS) ESTtA?Tt ACTUAL - ESTIMATEZ             ACTUAL$
-  300-400                 2.00     2.00-   15.38               15s.3
'00-500                2.00     2.00    15.38               15.38
S00-800
600-700
700-800
*  800-900                1.00               7.*69
900-1000               1.00      2.00     7.69-             15.38
1000-2000              3.00     3.00    23.08               23.08
2000-3000              3.00     2.00    23.08               15.38
3000-4000              1.00      1.00     7.69               7.69
4000-SOO                       1.00                         7.69
SIZE OF ENTERPRISES BEFORE THE LOA#                -
tNTERVELS(OOOSS) ACTUAL   S'         -
3000-5000              1.00     7.69
5000-6000              2.00    15.38
6000-                  1.00     7.69
TERMS OF THE SUB-LOAN
SUg-LOANS ARE REPASS SUR*tNG S-7 TEARS
SALES bESStNATtON
ESTINATE ACTUAL   tSTtRATES           ACTUALZ
0ONlSTIC RARKlT       10.00    11.00    76.92               84.62
EXPORT                 1.00               7.69
80TN                   2.00     1.00    15.38                7.69
TYPE Or EWTERPRISES
Ngw                    9.00     9.00    69.33               69.23-
EXPANSION              4.00     4.00    30.77               3017?
FtNANCIAL RATtS OF RETURN
>12          1.00      8.33
12-15        2.00    16.*67
16-20        1.00     8.33
21-25        2.00    16.*?
26-30        2.00    16.67
Zo<          4.00    33.33



" . "   .h   qF *t 4      *    t W   S
i i   IiI;III8I.e .?. 
o " g oo o HUa,                ,,IS
S.'   S.  I
HCig            s                      I'|3w



?ASL Ile. 4
JP r  j *e  t                                                          Statue
1) latmatloe"l Blanketa an           the coeny isf tacla  finnetal problm  do* to _betape In liquidity neded for votb* capitol reqIinnts r1mlties
textile. Coen                  th  lam incees  In exohese rats ed peice t1|le. Acerdlaly. this e  toe decrease tn the production cteityt.
moreoer, th  aepen   fed sinextin   problem  during th  trial gw  peid.   nsequmntly. the co_pay gave"
3)  ts"  Paper                       thb  capaW  encounte fiacial probliw due to ireas, to the prices of cm intecials softly due to the Incrase in
(Pyred  Papr K11tt1 Coery)*  eu_t ee rtee. 1herer, Km pepmrd on ut dated fincial study.
3)  tkrm  Stetiles Industries        the cteW   peid the cmining balance of the 233 loan tfrm its t     resou ces.
4) 31  Clotbn  C e                   Opattn  nowly.
5) Seem  aearoni                     te" co*pn  is facin  tacheal. uerbtins, magerial. and financial probliw. Consequetly, the ceany reqeted
4) Arab Coqany for Cernc*            It  coqanw ti  facin  toekmteel problem leading to a doclin  to the produetIen capcity. therefore. 335 preprend an
up.dated fineal study.
1) Bier Panitur Coapany              te ceany ti facin  tfi cel problem de to the icreas  in the prices of beasi poductio  cot itm. as well as
inlketI   difl le1ties. tr e     eapa  requested    A ae _dulift.
6) Arab  oreoleta  Cowan             th  coapay prepid the 1333 loan to avoid exceane rte risls.
9)   st Itran 1or Clay kicks         the _mpny  enoontered financa  bardew  al an *atem   of taechical and na-etin  protles. Rescbodulift  atud
camtted.
10) 31ACC                            operating succesafully.
11) Dilling  i ^otin  nornely.
12) 3sw inveetmat mince Ocmpany _h  capay faces sdministcative problm  due to the witbartl of te friweign  artne.
13) Dewy 1ade Oaaacnta (tedroskI)            I  ad Onuwkiltlenal Ase_cta-
-  ec  of qlified teceiall mnagmat staff.
-  Lack ot qlty cteetrl proedu.
-Lac  of prope production potain  and maintenace nsten.
Marhtinc Asect: -
-  InblItty  to pntrcate e_prt  ekets due to ined_ete narketing policy  me  abs_nc  of efleiet _aeItlg
stratas.
- Difficulty In "rating pert of the production In the lecal _erkt du  to partiol reetrictim  applid by Fr
afmg autbority.
-  A                      in laveetmi cost due to deay in Implettion prosres.
a   am _aploe_to i tew state of the _co y Is nawloed.



- 28 -                            Table 1
Page 1
PART III; STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Characteristics of Sub-Projects Financed
Size of Sub-Project           Number of Sub-Pro,jects
(Thousand of US$)            Estimated        Actual          X
900 - 2,000               na               1            7.7
2,000 - 3,000               na               2           15.4
3,000 - 4,000               na               1            7.7
4,000 - 5,000               na               2           15.4
Over 5,000                       na               7           53.8
Total                       20-25             13          100.0
Size of Sub-Loans             Number of Sub-Projects
(Thousand of US$)             Estimated        Actual           X
300 - 500                 na               4          30.8
500 - 800                 na               0           0
900 - 1,000               na               2          15.4
1,000 - 3,000               na               5          38.4
3,000 - 5,000              10-12             2           15.4
Total                        20-25            13          100.0
Size of Enterprise (Pre-Loan)
(Assets in Thousands of US$)
3,000 - 5,000              1
5,000 - 6,000              2
Over 6,000                       1
Total                        4
Type of Enterprise             No.
New Enterprise                  9
Expansion Enterprise            4
Total                       13



- 29-                             Table 1
Page 2
Terms of Subloans
(Term)                     (Number)
5 years                         4
6 years                         5
7 years                         4
Total                       13
Destination of Sales
Domestic Market                11
Export                          0
Both                            2
Total                       13
Financial Rates of Return    Number
Less than 15%                   3
15% to 202                      1
20X to 252                      2
252 to 302                      2
More than 30X                   4
Total                       12
Estimated
Industrial Type               Number            Jobs Created
Food Processing                 1                    104
Textiles & Clothing             4                    832
Furniture                       1                    260
Ceramics & Glass                2                    121
Paper & Paper Products          1                    105
Air Conditioner                 1                    600
Construction Materials          1                    160
Oil Industry Services           1                    192
Finance                         1                     90
Total                       13                  2,465
1.  Average Total Investment Cost per Job Created m US$42,000.
2. Cost per Job (less Paper Nill Project) - US$33,000



Proiect Comletion Report
Misr Iran Development Bank Proiect
(Loan 1842-EGT)
Status of Proiects Finane  OXy the Bank
(Thousand of USIS
Outstanding                                                       Problem
Sugr.iQs.t NMr      Dihbrlemennot    BaIhlance        Ptspct                   MarkettoiR_earch                Fku"font               Investment Plan
1. Ready Made Garments      2,571         2,293   Probable loss to origi-   Can't export product as         Inadequate technical      Too big. too fast and
(TACROSKEEN)                                   nal equity holders. NIPS  planned.  Assumed market        management.  Inadequate  implementation poorly plan-
Prtobin                                           may suffer loss given       for product & can't pene-    production 6 quality       ned.  Project was overstized
unique size and layout    trate.                         control.                  and too expensive.  Caught
of plant.                                                                          in devaluation with heavy
foreign debt.
. International Blankets  2.694          2.078   Financial returns may      Good blanket product, but    Inadequate for opera-    Poor financial plan. inade
& Textiles                                      never be positive. Pro-   made original production       tion. MIDS has opera-    quate working capital to
ProbklU                                            ject may stabiliOe         errors.                       tion ur.der its over-     meet higher costs of foreign
advance after restruc-                                   sight.                    exchange ad import prices.
turing involving D/E                                                                                                     I
conversion.
3. Pyramids Paper Mill      5,090         0 a/    Serious financial pro-    Paper converter using           Adequate.                 Slower than anticipated.
Prob7le                                            blems.  Costs of basic    imported raw material.                                   Devaluations changed the
raw materials have sharp- Product price based upon                                 entire cost/price structure.
ly increased as a result  undevalued exchange rate.
of devaluations. Resche-
duling study completed.
4. Nile Clothing              780        0         Successful company ert:   Normal.                        Adequate.                 Realistic.
Normal                                             pi@  to shed Fx issues.
Borrowed funds from
HIPS. Some problems on
repayment of cross-
currency add on.
S. Abdul Rahman Textiles      SOO         0        Successful company pre-   Adequate,                      Adequate.                 Realistic.
Normal                                             paid loan to shed FX
issues. Used own
resources to cancel
debt.
0504M0



Outstanding                                                        Problems
SubRerAlUt Nm         hshaustsin   .a1anee            tralwat                  UarkatnLhsiasearch              bauegn&nt              tnves.mnt Plan
6.  m  Macaroni Factory       442            347   Losses during 1984-65 S   Has good market penetration. Management Is incompe-   Managemnt has not Planned
Probim                                             lack of profits in         Should not be problem iwen   tent. The production has sell. lacks spare parts.
recent years ensure low   product is produced at         been poor. quality very  cannot recruit or retain
financial rate of          expected quality standards.  bad, spoilage rates         good  lhaers.
return. heeds restruc-                                   high. etc. hI0S put
turing to stabilize.                                     director on board to
find management solution.
7. Arab Company for         1.624          1,633   Delays in start-up for    Harketing not yet fully         Management did not        Delays and increased invest-
Ceramic Products                                two years has created      confronted.                    fully pilot test the      ment have altered investment
Prablm                                             serious cash flow oro-                                    raw material, clays,      plan.  Company faced with
blems. Project may never                                 etc. flaw in techni-       need to reschedule flnal
experience projected                                     cal planning and pilot   sources of capital. There is
financial rate of return.                                scale product testing.   no room for further error.
Too big to fast.
S. "tsr Iran Furniture        361          0 t/    Total product & market    Poor to no market research   Developer is a furni-    The plan was too big too
Co. (HIFCO)                                     disaster as furniture       to test a new type of fur-   ture importer/trader       fast. An attempt to esta
Problem                                            enterprise.  M11O is       niture for Egypt.  Product   with no prior expe-         blish a new industry with
attempting to raise dead  has inadequate consumer        rience in operating        too little investment tn
project.  HI0D8 putting    acceptance.  With US$25       industrial enterprise.   test marketing of prototypes
additional cash into       million in debt it is the    The company faces pro-   and slow Introduction into
overcapitali2ed venture   biggest furniture factory    duct, production and         market place.
with no prospect of        in hiddle East.               cost problems.
return on capital.
9  hisr Finance                 0                  Not yet fully into operation.  The company faces administrative problems eue to withdrawal of foreign
Pre Start-u                                        partners.
10. 1isr Iran Air Condi-   2,?57             498   Successful company. Pre-  Excellent plan, good atten-  Very adequate profes-    well planned and ekecuted
tioning Co. (HICANO)                           pared a detailed pro-      tion to testing of market    sional management and    project.
Nomal                                              gram and schedule for      assuptions.                    technical skills provi-
action when firm was                                     ded by joint venture
organized.  Joint ven-                                   partner.
ture with large foreign
air conditioner Co.
(HI08 has large equity
position).
11. Arab Company for          913           0      Successful company. Pre-  Adequate.                       Adequate and with ample  Adequate.
Porcelain                                      paid debt to excape fX                                    technical/production
Umul                                               problems.                                                 skills.
S0"                                                                                                                                                t4l.
0lu
0s448                                                                                                                       s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l-



Outstanding                                                         Probleks
Suborotact Name      Disbursement    Balance           Prospects                   arketino/Research              M3n*8men t              Investment Plan
12. Misr Iran Co. for       1.740           0 ;/   Serious financial and        Too big too fast with poor   Original foreign group   Plan was adequate on the
Building Material                               marketing problems as       to no marketing or distri-   who built plant and ope- assinption that market would
(CLAY BRICK)                                    well as raw material use  bution research.  Product    rated as joint venture   support a high priced cons-
problems. Low price clay  proves to be very price         has pulled out. Need to  tructidn material.
brick producers reopened  sensitive.  Very little         identify and retain
and sell lower quality    research in clay soil           strong local management
brick at lower price.      mechanism,                     skills.
Has had sharp effect on
clay brick sales.
13. National Drilling       2,999           1.125   Successful company.         Adequate.                      Adequate.                 Adequate.
a/ WIGS provided PPN with local currency loan of LE 9.6 million of which LE 6.6 was disbursed on 12/31/87 to repay World Sank loan and help it escape
foreign exchange prOblem.
b/ IDS has asststed this bankrupt company to reschedule its debt and has invested almost US$700.000 in equity.
r, WIGS provided Clay Brick Company with local currency to repay World Sank loan. The Company is destitute and seeks to restructure.
08041t



33                           Table 3
Page 1
PROJECT CGOPLETION REPORT
HISR IR   DEVELOPHEMT BAN  PROJCT
(LOAN 1842-EGT)
Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1988
(Thousands of US$)
1988     1987     1986      1985     1984      1980
Assets
Current
Cash & due from banks         207,793  216,533  196,220  240,321  227,359  166,581
Investments in Securities       3,877    4,677    5,837    9,787    5,787   28,958
Bankers' acceptance             3,473    4,093    4,706    4,905    4,953           -
Short-term loans               35,023   47,552   60,560   59,610   67,042   30,220
Loans to Banks (facilities)   18,500   18,500   18,500   16,000   25,000    7,660
Long-term
Long & medium-term loans       31,389   40,293   46,325   66,780   53,367   15,503
Equity investments             29,232   32,219   28,292   15,583   13,342    6,627
Loan & interest dues V/        46,520   42,789   31,652   20,873   13,980           -
Other debt balances            13,164   12,552   11,262   10,173   12,175    6,947
Fixed assets                   12,783   13,358   13,863   14,226   10,641         653
Total Assets               401,754  432,566  417,217  458,258  433,646  263,149
1/ Non-suspended portion of overdues.



- 34 -
Table 3
Page 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 1842-EGT)
Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1988
(Thousands of US$)
1988     1987      1986     1985      1984      1980
Liabilities & Shareholding Equity
Current
Customers' deposits            110,055  129,606  123,615  111,010  112,872   85,571
MIDB certificate of deposit   20,600   21,750   21,750   21,750   22,850   11,825
Banks & Correspondent          168,670  177,117  179,129  233,851  213,122  107,834
Other 1/                        42,995   44,141   32,820   35,642   31,966   13,573
Long-term
Long-term borrowing              7,968    8,759   10,211    9,055    7,791
Total Liabilities           350,288  381,373  367,533  411,308  389,401  218,808
Capital & Reserves
Capital                         40,000   40,000   40,000   40,000   40,000   40,000
Reserves                        11,466   11,193    9,684   _Q1950    4,245    4,341
Total Capital & Reserves   51,466   51,193   49,684   45,950   44,245   44,341
Total Liabilities & Capital    401,754  432,566  417,217  458,258  433,646  263,149
1/ Including provisions for: investments US$12.6 million, doubtful loans US$2.5
million and Credit Balances US$26.9 million.



- 35 -                        Table 3
Page 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 1842-EGT)
Statement of Profit and Loss as of December 31, 1988
(Thousands of US$)
1988     1987      1986      1985     1984      1980
Interest Income
Short-term loans                16,163   16,292   18,862   28,642   35,479   24,746
Long-term loawis 1/              7,266    6,692    9,356    9,297    7,150    1,717
Total                        23,429   22,984   28,218   37,939   42,629   26,463
Interest Expenses
Short-term borrowing            16,909   16,855   18,856   26,606   32,236   21,069
Long-term borrowing                982    1,075    1,079        949       804   _ 94
Total                        17,891   17,930   19,935   27,555   33,040   21,163
Net Interest Income                5,538    5,054    8,283   10,384    9,589    5,300
(Less) Provision for bad and
doubtful accounts           1,775    2,799    2,227    2,964    1,852         300
Net Financial Income               3,763    2,255    6,056    7,420    7,737    5,000
(Less) General & Administrative
Expenses                    3,2S0    3,389    4,113    3,818    3,914    1,635
Gross Operating Profit (Loss)        483   (1,134)   1,943    3,602    3,823    3,365
Other Income                3,192    4,798    4,027    4,541    4,070    2,750
(Less) Other expenses                784       933       881      803       840       673
Net Profit (pre tax)               2,891    2,731    5,089    7,340    7,053    5,442
1/ Include fees, commitment fees, commission, etc.
OS04M



- 36-                            Table 3
Page 4
PRJC  CONILETION REPORT
iGrPT
MI8R IRAN DEVELOPMEWT BANR PROJECT
(LOAN 1842-EGT)
Statement of Profit and Loss as of December 31, 1988
(Percentage of Average Assets)
1988             1987              1986
(Percentage)      (Percentage)     (Percentage)
Interest Income
Short-term loans                     3.9               3.8              4.3
Long-term loans                      1.7               1.6              2.1
Total                            5.6               5.4               6.4
Interest ExDenses
Short-term loans                    4.1               4.0               4.3
Long-term loans                     0.2               0.2               0.2
Total                            4.3               4.2               4.5
Net Interest Income                    1.3               1.2               1.9
(Less) Provision for bad and
doubtful accounts              0.4               0.7               0.5
Net Financial Income                   0.9               0.5               1.4
(Less) General and Administrative
Expenses                       0.8               0.8               0.9
Gross Operating Project (Loss)         0.1              (0.3)              0.5
Other Income                   0.8               1.1               0.9
(Less) Other Expenses                  0.2               0.2              0.2
Net Profit (pre tax)                   0.7               0.6               1.2
Average Assets (Millions of US$)   417.2               424.8             436.3



-37 -
Attachment
MISR IRAN DELOPMB8T BANK
Comments Received from MIDB
14/6/1989
Mr. Emile B. Sawaya
Senior Operations Officer
Industry and Energy Division                         U      / 93
Country Department 3
Europe. Middle East and North Africa Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Sawaya.
I would like to acknowledge -wi-h thanks- the receipt
of your letter dated May 24, 1989 and the enclosed copy of
the draft pro3ect completion report (PCR) for Loan
1842-EGT.
We have reviewed parts one and three of the PCR and
we   agree   -in   general-   with   the   conclusions   and
recommendations stated therein.
Consequently no changes were necessary in the draft
of part two of the report which was prepared by MIDB and
delivered to you during your last visit to Egypt. A final
copy of that part is attached.
As concerns the recommendations relating to training
and technical assistance that could be arranged through
the World Bank. we will study it and will come back to you
with specific request of assistance in areas where we
think assistance is needed.
Once again. I would like to thank you and your
colleagues for all the efforts you exerted and your kind
assistance and cooperation.
With warnmst regards,  - -
I remain.
Yours sincerely.
Al-Motaz Mansour
Managing Director



