Document of
The World Bank   FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2780-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
April 18, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)        =        US$1.43
1 US Dollar ($)                       LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
List of Abbreviations
BOA        Bank of Alexandria
CBE        Central Bank of Egypt
DIB        Development Industrial Bank
IMDBI      Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran
MIDB       Misr Iran Development Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (MIDB) PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary:         Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB)
Amount:              $30 million
Terms:               The loan to the Government would bear interest at 8.25 per-
cent per annum and would be onlent from the Government to
MIDB at 8.75 percent per annum. Amortization of the Bank
loan would be the aggregate of the amortization of indi-
vidual subloans, debt service of the loan by the Govern-
ment coinciding with that by MIDB to the Government. The
maximum repayment period would be 17 years.
On-lending Terms:   The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent by MIDB at an
interest rate of not less than 11 percent per annum. The
subborrowers would assume the foreign exchange risk and
commitment charge for Bank funds. For subloans approved
for MIDB's equity investments (estimated to total less
than 20 percent of the loan) the repayment obligation,
including the the foreign exchange risk would rest with
MIDB.
Project
Description:        The project is designed to provide a part of MIDB's
foreign exchange requirements over about two years.
Besides supporting MIDB in promoting and financing medium
and larger industries in the private sector in Egypt, which
has received renewed Government support recently, it will
support in particular industries in three sectors which
have been identified as priorities for growth in the
Egyptian economy: a minimum of 25 percent of loan pro-
ceeds would be allocated each for building materials and
construction/contracting industries; capital goods indus-
tries; and export oriented industries. During the commit-
ment period, MIDB's institutional framework would be
further strengthened to provide assistance to industrial
enterprises in the private sector. The risks are asso-
ciated with the possible failure of MIDB to fully utilize
the funds allocated for capital goods and export oriented
projects, although diligent promotion should enable MIDB
to meet the target allocation.
Free Limit:          Individual subprojects whose total costs do not exceed
$8 million, and for which subloans do not exceed
$1.0 million.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- II -
Final Date of
Project
Submissions:        December 31, 1982
Procurement:         International competitive bidding for larger projects where
single procurement packages exceed $5 million, otherwise
through international shopping with comparison of offers
from more than one supplier.
Estimated Bank
Loan Disburse-
ment:                                                    US$ Millions
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
Annual                   2.3    11.0    12.2      4.0      0.5
Cumulative              2.3    13.3    25.5    29.5    30.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No:  2753-EGT, dated April 9, 1980
IDF Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIREeTFiS
ON THE PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a-proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$30.0 million to help
finance part of the foreign exchange requirements of the Misr Iran Development
Bank (MIDB) for its development finance operations over about a two year
period.  The loan would bear interest at 8.25 percent per annum.  The proceeds
of the loan would be"relent to MIDB with interest at 8.75 percent per annum.
AmorLization of the Bank loan wozild be the aggregate of the amortization of
individual subloans, debt service of the loan by the Government coinciding
with that by MIDB to the Government. The maximum repayment period would be 17
yeats.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic mission visited Egypt during September-October
1979. Subsequent to that a report on "Recent Economic Development and
External Capital Requirements" (SecM 79-839) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on Noyember 28, 1979. The findings of this report are incor-
porated in the following. Country data sheets are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.        Economic trends in Egypt have been strongly influenced by the "open-
door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in October 1973 and approved in a
national referendum in May 1974. This strategy aims at accelerating economic
development through modernization and making Egypt's largely publicly-owned
and centrally-controlled economy more market-oriented. Specifically, the
strategy envisages (i) a gradual dismantling of government regulations, many
of which are to be replaced by the price mechanism; (ii) the decentralization
of decision-making in state-owned enterprises; (iii) a more active role for
the private sector, including private foreign investors; and (iv) expanded
economic cooperation with other countries. Substantial inflows of external
assistance are considered essential to support the strategy.
4.        To impleme,nt the open-door strategy the-Government has taken a
number of specific. policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, EgypL'$ purrency has been effectively devalued by 44
percent from $2.56 to $1.43 per pound at present. Exchange restrictions
1/   Part I of t~his report is identical to Part I of the President's Report
for the Textile II Project (P-2764-EGT) which was distributed to the
Board on April 10, 1980.



- 2 -
were eased, specific import allocations were replaced by general import quotas,
and more foreign exchange was made available to both the public and private
sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977) offers attractive
incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially with the EEC,
opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bilateral trade with
COMECON countries was much reduced. A debt management unit was established
in the Central Bank and became operative in mid-1978.
5.        A Five-Year Plan was adopted in 1978 and is currently under revision,
in accordance with the Government's desire to periodically reassess development
perspectives and respond to changing economic conditions and investment options.
In support of the overall plan, a number of sector and subsector programs are
currently under preparation with the assistance of the Bank and other donors.
These include a Water Master Plan, various industrial subsector studies, a
review of the transport sector, and an electrification program.
6.        In accordance with the objective of greater decentralization, the
autonomy of public enterprises has been somewhat strengthened, especially by
a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to individual enter-
prises in (i) setting up organizational structures, (ii) introducing material
incentives, (iii) establishing productivity related wage scales, (iv) adjust-
ing the work force to production requirements by not having to hire additional
people, and (v) undertaking some investments from their own resources.
Provincial authority to undertake regional development programs has also been
expanded. Central bureaucratic control remains strong, however, over most
investment decisions.
7.        A start has been made in rationalizing the price structure and
increasing price flexibility. The share of industrial output subject to
centralized price control has decreased, and prices for a number of controlled
products (including agricultural crops and some public service tariffs) were
substantially increased. Interest rates have been raised several times and now
stand at 10 to 12 percent for lending (to non-government sector) and 6 to 8.5
percent for term deposits. Private sector activity is being encouraged and
has been freed from many previous restrictions. Moreover, a growing number of
foreign investment contracts are being signed, especially in the important oil
and tourism sectors.
Impact of the "Open-Door" Strategy
8.        The open-door strategy and subsequent policy actions have yielded
impressive results. Above all, they have led to a rapid increase in Egypt's
foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4 billion in 1973 to $5.5 billion
in 1978. During this period, oil exports, workers' remittances, tourism and
the Suez Canal emerged as major new sources of foreign exchange. This was
accompanied by a major shift of agricultural and industrial exports from
COMECON countries to the hard currency area. In addition, the Government
managed to attract large amounts of foreign assistance. Gross inflows of
medium- and long-term capital averaged $3.4 billion per annum during 1975-78,
compared with an average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72. The bulk of
these aid flows came from Arab and western donors and were provided at highly
concessional terms.



-3 -
9.         Increased exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows have resulted in
a consolidation of Egypt's external debt and have strengthened the country's
creditworthiness. Short-term credits owed by the Government to commercial banks
were reduced from $1.4 billion at the end of 1976 to $443 million at end-1978,
largely with the help of loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the
Development of Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in
debt payments, which had built up in previous years, were cleared. These
changes have solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's
financial position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms on new borrowings have
also eased the burden on the country's medium- and long-term debt. Although
Egypt's total medium- and long-term public debt increased sharply during
recent years--from $2.1 billion at the end 1973 to an estimated $10.0 billion
at the end-1978--the debt service ratio declined from 33 percent to 24 percent,
during the same period. This reflects not only more favorable credit terms --
i.e., lower interest rates and longer maturities--but also the rapid increase
in foreign exchange earnings.
10.       The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has allowed much
higher levels of imports. This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase of
investment, larger domestic consumption, and a better utilization of existing
production capacities. Imports of goods and services (excluding interest
payments) rose from about $2.0 billion in 1973 to an estimated $6.5 billion in
1978; imports of capital goods increased at an even faster rate. Increased
availability of foreign exchange to industrial producers and farmers enabled
them to import more raw materials, intermediate goods--including fertilizer
and pesticides--and spare parts, thus breaking crucial bottlenecks that had
constrained local production. Together with investments in new capacities and
a vigorous expansion of services such as trade, tourism and shipping, these
developments sharply accelerated the rate of economic growth.
11.       The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices rose
at an average rate of close to 9 percent per annum during 1974-78. Much of
the growth was concentrated in petroleum, construction, manufacturing, transport
and public utilities. Agricultural production, on the other hand, increased
very slowly (about 1 percent per annum). The growth rate of GNP was very high,
about 13 percent per annum, because of the massive growth in workers' remit-
tances from $189 million in 1974 to $1,760 million in 1978. The higher level
of economic activity together with large-scale labor migration to neighboring
oil exporting countries has absorbed much of the excess labor force that
existed in the early 1970s. In fact, serious labor shortages have begun to
emerge in a number of occupations, especially in the construction sector.
12.       Since 1974 Egypt's investment rate (investment/GNP) increased from
about 18 percent to about 25 percent on average in the 1976-78 period. This
increase was made possible by the substantial contribution of foreign savings
including the massive growth in workers' remittances. National savings increased
from 2.3 percent of GNP in 1974 to more than 12 percent in 1978, reflecting the
rise in remittance income. The domestic savings rate, however, while showing
some growth since 1974, financed less than a quarter of investment in the 1974-
78 period. A major cause for this inadequate level of domestic savings was the



- 4 -
continuously low and sometimes even negative savings generated by the government
budget. During 1974-78 current budget surpluses averaged less than one percent
of GNP, and their contribution to the financing of public investment averaged
less than 10 percent. This was the result of high defense and security expendi-
tures, large consumer subsidies and fast growing interest payments which, taken
together, claimed 79 percent of the government's tax revenues in 1978. At the
same time, savings generated by public enterprises remained constrained by
price regulations. The result has been a continuous shortage of domestic
funds, which in many instances has slowed down the implementation of investment
projects.
Recent Economic Developments
13.       Preliminary estimates indicate that GDP growth in 1979 was about 8.6
percent, close to the average achieved during 1975-78. The increase of agri-
cultural value added (2.6 percent) was significantly above the long-term
trend because of favourable climatic conditions and improved distribution of
inputs. Growth in industry and mining accelerated in 1979 to 11.5 percent,
compared with the 1975-78 average of 7.6 percent.  There was, however, a
marked slowdown in the growth of the petroleum sector, 20 percent in 1979
compared to 34 percent in 1978, reflecting the lack of major discoveries in
recent years and the approaching "peak" in production from existing fields.
Overall, the growth rate in the commodity sectors realized in 1979 (6.9
percent) was close to the 1975-78 average (7.6 percent). Growth in the
distributive and service sectors, about 12 percent and 9 percent respectively,
continued to be significantly higher than in the commodity sectors.
14.        Egypt's foreign exchange earnings continued to grow rapidly in 1979.
Based on preliminary estimates, merchandise exports increased by about 38 per-
cent in value due to a major increase in petroleum revenue made possible by the
surge in world prices. Merchandise imports, on the other hand, increased by
only 11 percent in current value. With the continued growth in Suez Canal
earnings (17 percent) and officially recorded workers' remittances (11 percent),
the current account deficit declined by about 15 percent from its 1978 value
to about $1.5 billion. While the current account improved substantially, esti-
mated medium- and long-term capital inflow in 1979 ($2,410 million) was about 29
percent below its 1978 value ($3,373 million) reflecting the cessation of cash
inflows from GODE ($500 million in 1978), and a drastic decline in bilateral
disbursements from Arab sources (about $70 million in 1979 compared to about
$300 million in 1978). As a result, the overall balance (current account plus
net MLT capital flows) showed a small deficit ($18 million), and there was
some net short-term borrowing (about $150 million). Prospects for 1980 are
reasonably good, with petroleum revenue expected to exceed $2 billion and Suez
Canal earnings increasing as a result of recent increases in the Canal's
capacity as well as higher tariffs. In addition net MLT capital flows are
projected to grow significantly. Growth in these sources of foreign exchange,
and continued growth in workers' remittances and tourism receipts, would
permit the resumption of rapid growth in imports of producer goods essential
for sustaining high rates of investment and GDP growth.



-5-
15.       Reforms in trade, exchange rate and incentive policies have contri-
buted significantly to the recent improvements in the balance of payments.
Continued care must be taken, however, that incentives remain appropriate and
are adapted to changing circumstances. The gap between interest rates on
foreign and domestic deposits will have to be closed to channel more workers'
remittances and tourism receipts into official channels and prevent the
re-emergence of a large dual foreign exchange market. Periodic adjustments in
the exchange rate may also become necessary if the unofficial "free market"
rate were to start deviating substantially from the "unified" official rate.
In 1979 the free market premium fluctuated around 8 percent and significant
downward pressure on the exchange rate did not develop.
16.       The domestic fiscal situation remains an area of major concern.  The
overall budget deficit increased to reach about 22 percent of GNP in 1979.
Domestic financing of this deficit has gone up from 5.9 percent of GNP in 1977
to about 13.2 percent in 1979, increasing the pressure on money supply and
prices. While public revenue increased by 21 percent, current expenditure
alone increased by about 37 percent, principally because of a doubling of
subsidy payments linked to the exchange rate adjustment. Furthermore, in
spite of increasing revenue from petroleum and the Suez Canal, the public
enterprise sector still generated only half of the surplus that would be
required to finance its investment program.
17.       There are indications of a growing Government effort to contain
widening budgetary deficits. Already in 1979 two major agricultural input
prices (e.g., fertilizers and pesticides) and a wide range of other prices
(e.g., cement, gasoline, railway freights, etc.,) have been substantially
raised. The 1980 budget contains similar provisions and net domestic borrowing
is projected to decline. This is expected to be achieved through a variety of
measures: a new sales tax and elimination of tax loopholes, increases of 20
to 30 percent in consumer prices of mass consumption articles such as cloth,
cigarettes, soft drinks, sugar, petrol, kerosene, as well as limiting the
ration card system to the lowest income groups and eliminating subsidies
on flour for uses other than the production of traditional bread. The net
revenues derived from these measures will be complemented by a large increase
in revenue from the petroleum sector. The overall fiscal situation is,
therefore, likely to improve in 1980, unless massive increases in public
investment expenditures are allowed to outweigh the increase in revenues.
Development Potential and Constraints
18.       Egypt has considerable potential for further development.  The rea-
sons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively skilled
and literate population, an agricultural resource base not yet fully developed,
varied raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key geographical location.
In addition, there are good prospects for continued growth of foreign exchange
earnings from tourism, workers' remittances and the Suez Canal which is under-
going a major expansion. While oil exports are likely to decline in volume
in the long-run--in the light of increasing domestic consumption and less
optimistic assumptions on new discoveries--the outlook for exports of new
industrial and agricultural products is promising.



- 6 -
19.       Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The need to gradually substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign contributions decline in relation to GNP.
Capacities are now strained in a number of sectors, including infrastructure.
Investment in new capacities has been slowed down by administrative inefficiency,
inadequate fiscal resources and weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial
incentives for production are inadequate in many instances. Higher levels of
economic activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in
critical professional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt
still reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.       Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 39 million in 1978 with an average density exceed-
ing 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population was
growing at a rate of about 2.2 percent per annum in the mid-1970's, adding
almost one million people every year. This continues to create great pressures
on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates the employment
problem in the longer run. In the past years the Government has made a new
commitment to direct action on population matters. While it has already
initiated such action (e.g., an intensified home visiting program under the
second IDA financed population project), it will take time for measurable
results in fertility reduction to be achieved.
21.       A serious side-effect of the open-door strategy has been a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Currently the lower 40 percent of the rural
population receive about 25 percent of the rural incomes while in the urban
areas the proportion is about 21 percent. About 30 percent of the rural
and 22 percent of the urban population live in absolute poverty. Although
this pattern of inequality and incidence of absolute poverty is no worse
than in most economies at similar income levels, it is nevertheless a serious
problem, which could become more severe if no effective policy action is taken.
22.       To maintain the momentum of development, major efforts are required
to overcome present structural constraints. Specifically, action is needed
to (i) increase the efficiency of government administration through organiza-
tional and procedural modifications and selective changes in salary struc-
tures; (ii) strengthen the capacity for development programming and project
preparation/implementation; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to
upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) substantially expand the
program to curb population growth; (v) articulate urban and rural strategies
aimed at decentralizing urban agglomeration and economic opportunities; (vi)
further increase the use of prices as indicators of relative scarcities;
(vii) strengthen the management of public enterprises; (viii) improve pro-
fessional and technical education; (ix) increase domestic savings; and (x)
develop a coordinated export promotion policy. There is an ongoing dialogue
on all these issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank; they have
also been the focus of the discussion among the members of the Consultative
Group for Egypt.



-7-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
23.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of July 31, 1979 was estimated at about $10.6 billion. Bilat-
eral loans comprised about $6.5 billion or about 62 percent of the debt out-
standing while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were
about 24 percent ($2.5 billion) and 8 percent ($0.8 billion) respectively, with
the remainder being held by financial institutions. Major creditors were the
GODE and USA, followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of
Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 4 percent of the total disbursed debt.
The estimated end-December 1979 total disbursed debt was about $11.0 billion.
Debt service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated at $1.4 billion in
1979 giving a debt service ratio of about 20 percent. No reliable estimates
of military debt are available.
24.       The Government's recent policy actions have initiated structural
adjustments called for by Egypt's economic situation and international environ-
ment. If progress towards overcoming present constraints is maintained and
the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the average deficit
on current account is estimated to be about $2.5 billion per annum for the
coming five years. The required capital inflows are large--but if they are
available on concessional terms, Egypt would have the debt servicing capacity
to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on harder terms.
The burden of servicing medium- and long-term debt as a percentage of total
foreign exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate around 20 percent during
1980-84, and to decline gradually thereafter.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
25.       The proposed loan would be the World Bank's forty-seventh lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since
1970 to $1624.5 million. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of March 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.       Egypt faces a host of basic structural problems:  pressure of
population on resources; inadequate economic infrastructure; a large but
inefficient public sector constrained by out of date equipment, overstaffing,
weak management and a network of controls over investment, production, distri-
bution and prices; significant balance of payments deficits and shortages of
domestic resources. The Bank's response has been tailored to address these
long-term developmental issues in a very broad fashion and in close coopera-
tion with other donors. Its strategy involves entry into the spectrum
1/   Paragraphs 26-30 are identical to those in Part II of the President's
Report for the Textile II Project (P-2764-EGT), which was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 10, 1980.



- 8 -
of sectors in order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively
limited resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other agencies,
bilateral and multilateral, and as a spur for initiating discussion and,
hopefully, positive action on a coherent framework of policies and investment
proposals which can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also includes
delivery of technical assistance not only for adequate implementation of
specific investment programs but for developing the domestic institutional
capability to devise and implement future policies and investment programs.
The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has been differen-
tiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian authorities
can reasonably be expected to address these issues and implement the programs.
27.       Industry, which has received the largest portion of Bank resources
and significant attention over the past five years, illustrates the nature and
scope of the Bank's intervention. The Government looks to industry to create
productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs, generate an "export
surplus", and stimulate growth of the economy. However, this sector is beset
by a complex set of problems which stem largely from the rigidity of central-
ized control and lack of management autonomy, distorted pricing, and the lack
of incentives for better use of productive capacity. Efforts under Bank
financed projects have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving
capacity utilization (imports loans and credits Nos: Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and
Ln. 1456) and increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodi-
ties in resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and
fertilizer projects). The more fundamental effort is directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end the Bank is assisting
the Government in reviewing the planning apparatus and strengthening sectoral
planning and project preparation and implementation capabilities with the
objective of formulating an industrial strategy and plan for the 1980s. It
has also financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp
and paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order
to assist the Government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals, which would be embodied in future projects. Two subsectors,
textiles and steel, are planned for study in greater detail with a view to
developing specific recommendations concerning the major issues facing public
enterprises in Egypt, such as those relating to employment, wages, prices,
profit retention and the relationship between the public and private sectors.
To complement these efforts the Bank has also carried out a study on small-
scale industries which is laying the basis for joint Egyptian/Bank efforts in
this area. In addition, the Bank is assisting the Government in undertaking a
major study of the construction/contracting industry, which is one of the most
critical bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today, as well as in initiating
studies to develop a brick master plan and cement distribution master plan.
28.       The above sketch illustrating the scope and breadth of the Bank's
intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach that
it has adopted in varying degrees in the other sectors of the Egyptian economy.
It is a role that is in harmony not only with the Egyptian Government's wishes
but is welcomed by the various bilateral and multilateral donors as an appro-
priate function for the Bank as the Chairman of the Consultative Group for



- 9 -
Egypt. Preparation of projects for future lending follows this strategy, and
the pipeline includes projects in education, power, gas distribution, rural
and urban development, transportation, rural water supply, agriculture (includ-
ing drainage), development finance and industry.
29.       Bank Group disbursements in 1978 represent 2.8 percent of Egypt's
medium- and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 1.8 percent and 2.4 per-
cent, respectively, as of July 31, 1979. For the future, the Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 5.0 and 3.5 percent respectively in 1981.
It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
30.       IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about $37 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976); a
ready-made garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet (May 1978); a poultry project (July, 1979); and a
fish farming project (December 1979). IFC is discussing several other private
sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - INDUSTRY AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE SECTOR
Background and Structure
31.       Industry 1/ has become a significant sector of the Egyptian economy
with its share in GDP rising from 8 percent in 1946 to 17 percent in 1979.
In 1979, industry employed about 1.3 million persons, or nearly 13 percent of
the civilian labor force. Industrial exports provided about 30 percent of
commodity exports and amounted to about LE 550 million (14 percent of the
gross value of industrial output). The industrial structure is weighted
heavily in favor of industries producing consumer goods which account for
about 58 percent of industrial gross value added; intermediate products
(building materials, fertilizers, chemicals, and metals) account for about 34
percent; and capital goods, for only 8 percent.
32.       As a result of the nationalizations of the early 1960s, the public
sector, comprising some 200 enterprises, accounts for almost all large and
medium scale industrial enterprises. It generates some two-thirds of the
value added in industry and mining and provides slightly more than half of
the total industrial employment, mainly in four subsectors: textiles, food
products, metal and engineering, and chemicals. Egypt's basic industries
are all in the public sector and include iron and steel, aluminum and fertil-
izer. The private sector accounts for about one-third of total value-added
in industry and about half the sector's labor force. Textiles, food products,
leather, woodworking and furniture, and engineering are the important indus-
tries of private activity.
1/   Manufacturing and mining excluding petroleum.



- 10 -
33.       The performance of the industrial sector which was characterized in
1973-74 by important idle productive capacities rapidly improved during
1975-77 following the announcement of the "open door" policy in 1973 which
resulted in the relaxation of controls and greater availability of foreign
exchange. This period was followed by a temporary slowdown in the growth of
industrial output in 1978 (5.7 percent), followed by a recovery in 1979 (11.5
percent), which points to the increasing impact on production of investment
efforts during the last few years. While the growth of industrial output in
the public sector in 1973 and 1974 was low (2.1 and 2.6 percent), it jumped to
about 8-9 percent per annum during 1975-79. The private sector has performed
somewhat better than the public sector during the past few years. Its output,
which stagnated during 1972-74, increased by 10 percent annually during
1974-79. The private sector's share in total industrial investment averaged
only about 4 percent during 1969-74. Following the adoption of the "open
door" policy, it increased to about 10-12 percent during 1975-78, reflecting a
favorable response to the Government's initiatives.
34.       Egyptian industry has significant long-term prospects to grow
and broaden its base deriving primarily from the large and growing domestic
market and a strategic location with access to markets in Europe. An indus-
trial structure and tradition already exist, as well as a large relatively
low-cost labor force. Since development of agriculture is proceeding slowly
and the service sector (mainly Government) is overstaffed, it is to
industry that the Government looks to provide stimulus to growth through
continued expansion, efficient import substitution emphasizing intermediate
adid capital goods, expanded exports, as well as to absorb the growing labor
force. This is reflected in the 1978-82 Industrial Plan 1/ which allocates
about LE 3 billion or one quarter of total investment to industry.
The Plan also recognizes the potential of the private sector for Egypt's
industrial development and growth: about 20 percent of total industrial
investment was projected to be financed by the private sector during 1978-82
which is almost twice the level attained during 1975-77. The review of the
Plan, as well as of sector studies financed under the Bank's First Imports
Project (Ln. 1062 and Cr. 524), point to the need to develop exports and the
capital goods and construction industries on a priority basis. These three
subsectors, described below, will receive special emphasis under the proposed
loan to the Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB).
35.       Some of the most important problems inhibiting Egypt's export poten-
tial include such factors as inefficient and obsolete machinery and methods
which result in low product quality, lack of incentives and trained staff,
low labor productivity, and lack of orientation towards export markets. In
general, Egypt's export potential depends upon industry's ability to introduce
modern technology and efficient management in order to become competitive in
international markets. Above all, there is an urgent need for a better policy
framework, strategy and program to expand manufactured exports. Egypt has
1/   Currently being revised as part of the preparation of the overall
1980-84 plan.



- 11 -
some of the elements of such a program, including Law 43's mandate to attract
foreign investors in export-oriented joint ventures, and the Government is
discussing a comprehensive export promotion program with the International
Trade Center. The capital goods industry in Egypt is underdeveloped which has
been due to a variety of factors: lack of contact with new technology, price
controls, and easy availability of imports. Prospects for the country's
capital goods industry are favorable, and its development points to the
possibility for efficient import substitution and development of projects in
the private sector, since capital goods are in general labor intensive and can
be manufactured efficiently at small and medium production scales using inter-
mediate technology which can be easily absorbed by Egypt. The construction
industries sector, including building materials and construction contracting,
is a critical bottleneck to the timely and efficient implementation of proj-
ects and needs infusions of technology and substantial increases in capacity
in order to cope with the rapidly growing demand.
Recent Bank Actions Relating to Industry
36.       As part of the industrial policy dialogue, the Bank is assisting the
Government in undertaking several studies directed towards policy reform, and
in developing an appropriate industrial strategy (para. 27). The Bank's
recent loans to industry include: (i) program loans to alleviate foreign
exchange constraints and thereby improve capacity utilization; (ii) assistance
to individual, large, high priority projects; (iii) attempts to address the
principal issues affecting the productivity of major subsectors; and (iv)
assistance to financial intermediaries to enable them to provide financial and
technical assistance to private sector firms, including small scale industrial
enterprises. Lending commitments, including IFC, amount to $390 million for
industry from FY73 to FY79, of which about $275 million has been disbursed as
of March 31, 1980.
37.       The performance under the three ongoing DIB operations has been
generally satisfactory; the recent DIB IV loan has not yet been made effec-
tive. A project completion report for DIB I and DIB II is scheduled for
FY81 following completion of disbursements during the current fiscal year.
Implementation difficulties have been experienced in a number of Bank financed
projects due mainly to long start-up delays, slow construction and cumbersome
administrative procedures. Some of the actions which the Government has taken
recently to remedy the situation include opening up civil works to international
competitive bidding and making it easier to import construction materials.
Financial Institutions and Industrial Finance
38.       Industrial investments in the public sector are financed primarily
from the national budget and, to a very limited extent, from internally gener-
ated funds and bank loans. Long-term financing for private sector industry is
provided mainly by DIB and MIDB, tbhe only two active industrial development
banks in Egypt. Their roles are complementary in that DIB finances small- and
medium-scale enterprises, through loans in both local and foreign currency,



- 12 -
while MIDB promotes and finances the foreign exchange needs of medium and
larger private enterprises (para. 42) through loans and equity investments.
Other institutions providing finance to industry include four state owned
commercial banks (National Bank, Bank Misr, Bank of Alexandria, Banque du
Caire), Cairo Barclays (one of the many joint-venture banks) and the two
international banks in Cairo - Arab African Bank and Arab International Bank.
While the state owned banks in particular might provide substantial long-term
financing for large joint venture projects promoted by the public sector and
some such financing to the private sector, commercial banking of a short-term
nature is likely to remain the main or only interest for most banks other than
MIDB and DIB.
39.       Continued bilateral and multilateral assistance is needed to supple-
ment the foreign exchange earnings of Egypt to satisfy the foreign exchange
requirements of industry. Long-term local currency resource mobilization
through private savings has been hampered in the past by low interest rates
and the lack of a capital market. However, legislation was enacted in
December 1979 for the establishment of a capital markets authority for the
development and regulation of capital markets in Egypt. Equity capital of
project promoters is expected to continue to provide most of the local cost
financing for projects, with long-term loans from DIB and short-term loans
from commercial banks providing the remainder.
Cost of Capital in Egypt
40.        Interest rates on deposits and loans in local currency for all
financial institutions are regulated by the Central Bank (CBE). Over the last
four years, lending rates have been increased by 4 percent to a level of 10
to 12 percent; and rates on deposits, by 5 percent to a level of 8.5 percent.
Interest rates on foreign exchange loans are not regulated by the CBE. They
reflect the international cost of these resources. The main institutional
sources of long-term foreign exchange loans for industry in Egypt are MIDB,
which lends only in foreign exchange, and DIB which provides financial assis-
tance in both local and foreign exchange. DIB foreign loans are essentially
in dollar loans; it is currently charging 11 to 12 percent (except on SSI
loans from special funds), and the foreign exchange risk borne by the sub-
borrowers is only between the Egyptian Pound and the US Dollar. In addition,
the compensatory deposits of around 10 percent of foreign currency loans
which DIB requires from borrowers increase the effective cost of these
loans to 12 to 13.5 percent.   Until 1979, MIDB's loans which have been
made in dollars and are repayable in dollars, were made at 11 percent. Last
year MIDB discontinued this type of loan since it had exhausted lending
its equity resources. Currently, MIDB charges around 2 percent over LIBOR on
its long-term dollar loans made out of the proceeds of its short-term deposits
(MIDB pays interest at LIBOR rates for these deposits). In the future MIDB's
fixed interest long-term loans, such as onlending of proposed Bank funds,
would carry interest charges commensurate with the actual cost of the foreign
currencies involved, after providing MIDB with a spread of about 2 percent
and passing on the full foreign exchange risk to its sub-borrowers (Project
Agreement, Section 2.06(c), Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). MIDB's onlending
interest rate on Bank funds would thus need to be lower than the interest rate



- 13 -
charged on MIDB's dollar loans to compensate the sub-borrowers for the addi-
tional foreign exchange risk on Bank funds (between the dollar and other
currencies repayable to the Bank). Accordingly, a minimum onlending rate of
11 percent has been agreed. This onlending rate (with the full foreign
exchange risk borne by sub-borrowers) is in line with the cost of long-term
foreign exchange resources in Egypt and would be positive in real terms taking
into account the blend of currencies used.   The sub-borrowers will repay
MIDB in foreign exchange which they are able to earn or purchase from the
"free market" in Egypt.   The free market rate of exchange between the
Egyptian pound and foreign currencies can be expected to follow market supply
and demand forces, which would normally take into account the difference
between the inflation rate in Egypt and that applicable to the blend of
currencies repayable to the Bank.   Thus the real cost of Bank funds to the
sub-borrowers would be positive, accounting also for domestic inflation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The initial request for a Bank loan in support of MIDB was conveyed
to the Bank by the Government in September 1977, and Bank missions visited
Egypt in January, March and July, 1978 to prepare and appraise the project
and subsequently in 1979 for updating purposes. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C. from March 24 to 28, 1980. The Egyptian delegation was
represented by Mr. Samir Koraiem, Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy and
Mr. F. Sultan, Managing Director, MIDB. A separate staff appraisal report,
"Egypt: Loan to Misr Iran Development Bank" (No. 2753-EGT), is being cir-
culated separately.
Project Objectives
42.       The objectives of the loan are to continue and expand on the support,
begun with DIB to build up an adequate institutional capacity in Egypt for the
promotion and financing of private industrial enterprises. The loan would
support MIDB in promoting and financing medium and larger industries 1/ in the
private sector in Egypt, with special emphasis on providing assistance to the
construction, capital goods and export oriented industries, three sectors
which have been identified as priorities for growth in the Egyptian economy
(para. 35). Under the project, the Bank would also continue to contribute to
MIDB's institution building and training efforts through the regular Bank
missions, which have already made a substantial contribution in helping MIDB
develop its policies, operational and lending strategies and plans.
1/   Industry is defined to include mining, manufacturing, processing,
construction/contracting and related services (excluding tourism). The
total cost of subprojects will generally range between $5 million and
$25 million, which is the normal target group for MIDB financing.



- 14 -
The Institution: MIDB
43.       MIDB, the beneficiary of the proposed loan, was incorporated in 1975
as an Egyptian joint stock company under the provisions of Law 43, as a result
of a trade and economic protocol signed between Iran and Egypt. MIDB has
four equal shareholders: Bank Melli and Industrial and Mining Development
Bank of Iran (IMDBI) from Iran, Bank of Alexandria (BOA) and Misr Insurance
Company from Egypt. Both Iranian banks are now Government-owned and represent
the Iranian Government's interest in MIDB; the Egyptian shareholders are
public sector institutions. MIDB is classified as a private off-shore bank.
By virtue of its ownership structure, only 50 percent Egyptian, it is allowed
to operate only in foreign currency which frees it of normal Central Bank
controls over banks. A shareholders' agreement incorporated in MIDB's Articles
of Incorporation (Statues) would permit a change to majority Egyptian owner-
ship, which would allow MIDB to operate also in local currency, should MIDB
find this necessary to enhance the fulfillment of its objectives.
44.       In July 1979, MIDB's share capital was increased from $20 million to
$40 million, and payment of the initial 25 percent of the increase has been
completed by all of the shareholders, raising MIDB's paid up share capital to
$25 million. The remaining 75 percent of the increase will be payable on call
by the Board prior to September 1984. MIDB has agreed that, apart from such
reasons as maintenance of the debt/equity policy limit, MIDB's shareholders
will pay in such portion of this capital as is necessary to maintain its
liquidity if the amount of short-term resources used by MIDB for long-term
loans and investments (para. 52) at any time for more than a month period
exceeds 50 percent of its short-term deposits (Project Agreement, Section
3.09). This is necessary because MIDB, having fully committed its long-term
resources for long-term investments, is now using part of its short-term
resources for this purpose.
45.       MIDB is managed by a Board of Directors appointed by the General
Meeting of the shareholders, which are represented in proportion to their
participation in the capital. The Board has broad powers to manage the bank:
it determines and implements the Bank's organizational structure, policies and
modus operandi. The Board or its Management Committee approves all long-term
loans and equity investments. Senior managers of MIDB are qualified and
experienced, and well respected in the Egyptian financial and business
community. MIDB is adequately staffed, in quality and number, since it is
able to provide salaries and benefits competitive with those in the private
sector in Egypt.
46.       The objectives of MIDB, according to its Articles of Incorporation,
are to "identify, finance, implement and manage development projects" for the
benefit of Egypt and Iran. In practice the projects financed are all in
Egypt, and the proposed loan would finance projects only in Egypt (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01 (a)). In pursuit of these objectives, MIDB may:
mobilize resources from Egypt, Iran or from other external markets; stimulate,
create and expand the security markets; promote, assist and participate in the
establishment, expansion and modernization of enterprises by providing long or
short-term loans or equity funds, sponsoring and underwriting new issues of



- 15 -
shares and securities, guaranteeing loans from other sources, and providing
technical assistance. The main objective thus far has been the promotion and
financing of new projects, mostly established as joint stock companies, in
Egypt's medium- and large-scale industrial sector, that foster modern and
appropriate technology, often involving foreign partners who provide the
technical know-how and managerial expertise. The management of MIDB has been
open to guidance from the Bank in the area of determining sector priorities
for its operations; and MIDB's "Strategy Statement", drafted in conjunction
with its "Policy Statement", assigns priorities to the construction and
capital goods industries and export oriented projects in line with the prior-
ities identified in para. 35. The Policy and Strategy Statements are satis-
factory to the Bank, and future amendments to the Policy Statement would be
subject to Bank approval (Project Agreement, Section 2.13).
47.       In accordance with its Policy Statement, MIDB extends financing only
to projects in the private sector. Projects established under Law 43 which
have majority public sector ownership are not financed, although by law they
are considered to be in the private sector. The main features of MIDB's
financial policy are satisfactory: a maximum long-term debt/equity ratio of
4:1; total financial exposure in loans, guarantees and equity investment in
a single enterprise not normally exceeding 15 percent of'MIDB's subscribed
capital; participation in the share capital of any enterprise not normally
exceeding 33 percent of the enterprise's share capital; and total equity
participations not exceeding MIDB's own equity.
48.       The quality of MIDB's project appraisals is generally satisfactory,
although economic analysis has not been done systematically in the past. The
Bank and MIDB have discussed this, and calculation of the economic rate of
return will be mandatory for projects financed under the proposed loan (para.
56). MIDB's supervision work is adequate, although it has commenced only
recently and procedures are still evolving. The management information system
at MIDB is not yet formalized but is developing satisfactorily.
MIDB's Operations
49.       Since May 1975, when it commenced operations, until December 31,
1979, MIDB approved a total amount of $29 million in long-term loans and
$13.2 million in equity investments to finance 22 projects (all in the private
sector under Law 43). The 20 projects approved through September 30, 1979
(with a total cost of $290 million) and for which detailed information is
available are in tourism (20 percent of MIDB's financing), construction (15
percent), textile, engineering and other industries. The majority of projects
have foreign participation and are estimated to export 20 percent or more of
their respective output. These 20 projects are expected to add about 5,500
jobs in Egypt and their estimated rates of return range from 10 percent to 40
percent, fluctuating mostly around 20 percent. MIDB was responsible for the
promotion of most of these, particularly in arranging the financial package --
mobilizing resources (including local currency) from other financial institu-
tions in Egypt -- negotiating financial and technical assistance with foreign
partners and assisting the projects in clearing administrative requirements.



- 16 -
50.       MIDB's short-term loan portfolio amounted to $6.2 million as of
December 31, 1979. The bulk of the short-term operations, however, consist
of investments in the Eurodollar market and deposits with local banks (at
floating interest rates) which have provided MIDB with a small spread over
the cost of its short-term resources. Outstanding guarantees and letters of
credit extended by MIDB to other institutions amounted to $74.1 million.
Of this, long-term guarantees amounted to $31.2 million, of which $27.1 mil-
lion was for a single client, Misr Iran Textile Co. (or MIRATEX), a joint
venture between the Iranian and Egyptian Governments; the amount includes a
guarantee for an Iranian Government loan of $23.8 million. MIDB assumed this
excessive financial exposure considering the risk of loss to it to be minimal
given the Iranian Government's interest in both MIRATEX and MIDB. MIDB has
recently reduced its overall financial exposure in the project to around $6
million in line with its policy to restrict its exposure in any single firm to
15 percent of its subscribed capital.
51.       MIDB's pipeline of 40 projects as of September 30, 1979, provides a
satisfactory basis for the projected level of MIDB operations for the 1980-84
period. Long-term loan approvals are estimated at $19.5 million in 1980 and
$21.4 million in 1981 and are projected to grow thereafter at an annual rate
of 25 percent through 1984. Annual approvals of equity investments are
projected at $4 million. The short-term loan portfolio is projected to be
maintained at about 25 percent of the long-term loan and equity portfolio. In
addition to its own financing, MIDB expects to continue its promotional role
by mobilizing other resources for its projects (including local currency
resources) from Egyptian financial institutions. Special emphasis will be
placed by MIDB on its promotion of projects with an export orientation and on
capital goods and construction industries.
MIDB's Financial Performance, Resource Position and Needs
52.       As of December 31, 1979, MIDB's long-term resources of about $30.5
million in equity capital, including $25 million in share capital, were almost
fully committed for long-term investments (loans and equity participations).
Short-term resources amounted to around $142 million, mostly in time deposits
with terms ranging up to six months. Through mid-1982, the estimated period
for commitments under the proposed loan, it would need additional long-term
resources of about $60 million (net of internal cash generation). The pro-
posed Bank loan of $30 million would cover 50 percent of this requirement, $15
million will be covered by MIDB's short-term resources backed up by an equi-
valent amount of share capital increase on call (para. 44), leaving a gap of
$15 million. MIDB has a preliminary commitment from the Arab African Bank to
underwrite a $10 million issue of Certificate of Deposits of 3-5 year maturity
at an interest rate to MIDB of 1/4 percent per annum over six month LIBOR. In
addition, MIDB can reasonably expect to participate as an intermediary in
onlending a proposed $30 million USAID "Private Investment Encouragement Fund"
for financing medium size industries. MIDB will also explore other long-term
sources of finance. The Bank feels that MIDB can mobilize the additional
resources it needs through mid-1982 and with the expected Government support,
also for the longer-term.



- 17 -
53.       MIDB's financial performance has been satisfactory and is projected
to continue to be so for the 1980-84 period. As a percentage of average total
assets, income before interest and taxes is projected to be an estimated
12.5 between 1980 and 1984. Administrative expenses as a percentage of average
total assets are projected to be maintained satisfactorily at about 1 percent.
As in the past the contribution of MIDB's short-term (commercial banking)
operations to gross income will remain substantial over the period projected
but decrease from an estimated 90 percent in 1980 to 65 percent in 1984, as
the income from its long-term loan portfolio grows and equity investments
begin to yield dividends. Total assets as of December 31, 1979 amounted
to $206 million funded by equity and customers' deposits and are expected to
increase to $341 million by 1984. The long-term debt (including guarantees)/
equity ratio is projected to increase from 1:1 to 2:1 over the same period,
which is well below the limit of 4:1 imposed by MIDB's Policy Statement.
MIDB's portfolio seems sound although most of the projects are still in their
grace period. There are no arrears in payments of interest or principal, and
MIDB is making satisfactory provisions for possible losses. MIDB's accounts
are audited by an auditor satisfactory to the Bank.
The Proposed Loan
54.       A Bank loan of $30 million is proposed which would cover about 50
percent of MIDB's requirements of long-term resources over about a two-year
period up to mid-1982. In conformity with the above priorities (para. 35) the
allocation of the loan would be: (a) a minimum of 25 percent for building
materials and construction/contracting industries; (b) a minimum of 25 percent
for capital goods manufacturing industries; (c) a minimum of 25 percent for
industries estimated to export at least 20 percent of the project's output in
value, excluding projects qualifying under (a) and (b) above; and (d) the
remainder for other economically viable industrial projects (Project Agreement,
Section 2.02 (a)).
55.       Because legal restrictions preclude a Government guarantee to a
private institution such as MIDB, the loan will be made at an interest rate
of 8.25 percent to the Government, which will onlend the funds to MIDB at
8.75 percent, under a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b))1/.   Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank,
MIDB's onlending interest rate would be not less than 11 percent which is
positive in real terms (para. 40). This onlending rate would provide MIDB
with a minimum 2.25 percent spread, which is satisfactory. Annually MIDB will
review with the Bank its interest rate policy in light of prevailing market
conditions (Project Agreement, Section 2.05).
56.       Main Features:  The size of the subprojects for Bank financing would
generally range between $5 and $25 million in total cost. The upper limit
would not normally be exceeded unless MIDB's promotional role in putting
together a project of larger size can clearly be demonstrated, and such
projects would be reviewed by the Bank in greater depth than normal sub-
projects (Project Agreement, Section 2.03(c)). The size of individual sub-
loans would normally be limited to $3 million. Individual sub-projects whose
total cost do not exceed $8 million and for which the amount of the subloan
1/ The execution of the subsidiary loan agreement is a condition of loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).



- 18 -
is not more than $1.0 million would qualify under the "free limit" (Project
Agreement, Sections 2.02(a), (b)) However, the first two subprojects would be
submitted for Bank review and approval, irrespective of size, since MIDB is a
first time borrower (Project Agreement, Section 2.03(a)). These limits
provide for a reasonable number of subprojects (about 10-12 out of an estimated
total of 20-25) to be submitted for Bank review and approval, allowing input
from the Bank in strengthening MIDB's appraisal techniques, particularly in
economic analysis. Projects submitted for Bank financing will have to show an
economic rate of return of not less than 12 percent (Project Agreement,
Section 2.12).
57.       Subloans may be made for up to 15 years with grace periods as
appropriate for the subprojects; in practice repayments of MIDB's loans rarely
exceed 10 years including about two years grace. Subloans for equity invest-
ments (estimated to total less than 20 percent of the loan) would have a grace
period of up to 5 years, which is about the average period before such invest-
ments yield any dividends. 1/ Amortization of the Bank loan is proposed to be
the aggregate of the amortization of individual subloans, debt service of the
loan by Government coinciding with that by MIDB to the Government. Allowing
about two years for commitment of individual subloans, the Bank loan will thus
be repaid within 17 years. The final date for submission of subprojects is
proposed to be December 31, 1982 and the closing date June 30, 1985.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Through project appraisal and supervision MIDB ensures that procure-
ment for all projects follow international competitive bidding (ICB) or shopping
procedures which conform to Bank requirements for DFC projects. For subprojects
partially financed by the Bank, individual procurement packages exceeding $5
million would require international competitive bidding consistent with Bank
guidelines; otherwise procurement would be through international shopping with
comparison of offers from more than one supplier (Project Agreement, Section
2.08 (a)). The tender documents and evaluation of bids for the contracts
requiring ICB will be submitted for the Bank's prior review and comment. MIDB's
disbursement procedures are satisfactory and well monitored. Disbursements
under the proposed loan would be made against standard documentation and are
expected to be completed by FY85 (for details see Loan and Project Summary).
Project Justification and Risk
59.       The proposed loan is a continuation of the efforts to develop
adequate institutional capacity in Egypt to promote and finance the develop-
ment of the private industrial sector which has received renewed Government
support in recent years after about two decades of neglect. The Bank's asso-
ciation with MIDB through the project will contribute to the strengthening
of MIDB as an institution for assisting industrial development in Egypt.
The special purpose loan components for export oriented, capital goods and
1/   The repayment obligation for these subloans, including the foreign
exchange risk, will rest with MIDB.



- 19 -
construction industries should bring significant benefits to the industrial
sector as well as the economy. Egyptian industry has long-term potential for
increasing exports particularly if current problems can be resolved and appro-
priate supportive policies adopted. Pending these changes, the Government is
using the incentives under Law 43 as a major instrument for promoting export
oriented projects which will continue to be promoted by MIDB with the Bank's
financial support. Financing of capital goods industries, which are relatively
underdeveloped in Egypt but congruent to many of Egypt's comparative advan-
tages, would assist in reorienting the engineering sector to increase the
share of value added in output, diversify the domestic product mix, promote
manufacture of intermediate components in the small scale sector through
subcontracting arrangements and introduce intermediate technology appropriate
to the scale of production and factor costs. The construction contracting and
building materials industries (cement, steel, bricks, etc.) have not kept
pace with demand in recent years and have become a critical bottleneck in the
economy. The project will assist in modernizing and increasing the capacity
of these industries as well, through MIDB's promotion and financing of sub-
projects, particularly joint ventures with foreign partners, that can intro-
duce appropriate technologies and efficient management practices in this
sector.
60.       The project is not without risks, however.  Difficult relations
between Egypt and Iran pose a possible problem for the effective long-term
development of MIDB given its 50:50 Iranian:Egyptian ownership, although the
Iranian shareholders have demonstrated their support by agreeing to the recent
capital increase and by paying in their initial 25 percent. The Egyptian
Government views MIDB as having an important role to play in the economy and
has reaffirmed its support for the institution.
61.       There is also the possibility that MIDB may not be able to fully
utilize the proposed funds allocated for capital goods and export oriented
projects. The domestic capital goods industry has been slow to develop in
Egypt and will have to compete with established foreign imports for the
domestic market. Also, export prospects for Egyptian industry are uncertain
in the near term. Diligent promotion and financing of projects in these
areas, however, should enable MIDB to meet the target allocations of the
proposed loan.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Misr Iran Develop-
ment Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.



- 20 -
63.       Features of the project which are of special interest are
listed in Section III of Annex III.   The special condition of
effectiveness of the loan is: execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and MIDB (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 18, 1980
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-  21  -                                          Page1of 5
TABLE 3A
ECYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
LAN  AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL          1001.4                                                 SAME         SAME    NEXT HIGHER
ArRICULTURAL     29.6                               INDST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME    INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIKtATE lb     REGION lc  GROUP Id  GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 90.0       150.0    400.0           1532.5      209.6      467.5
ENERGY CONSL'MTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)    298.0       275.0    473.0           838.1       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    25.9        32.6      37.8
ULBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 38.0       42.3      43.9           49.0       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATtON IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     58.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      90.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EH.                      26.0        33.0      39.0            19.9      49.4        45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0     1125.0   1324.0             99.0     252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.0        42.1      40.0           45.6       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                        55.0        54.7     56.0            51.4       53.2        51.9
65 TRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         3.2       4.0            2.8        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.3       2.1            3.0        2.4         2.7
ULBAN                             6.0         3.4       2.7             5.2       4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.0        40.0      36.0           43.7       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATR RATE (PER THOUSAND)    19.0        15.0      13.0           13.5       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.8/f       3.0       2.3            3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILT PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       206.0    187.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         9.0      21.1             *-       12.2        13.2
FWOD AND NUTRITION
NDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         92.6        99.0      95.0           90..8      98.2        99.6
P  CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRECNTS)                   95.0       106.0    113.0            99.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRMS PER DAY)          66.0        66.0      70.7           63.6       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      17.0/g      16.0      16.0            16.0      13.6        17.4
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATZ    31.0        23.C      18.0           15.9       18.5        11.4
REIALTR
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTR (YEARS)   46.0        51.0     54.0            53.8       49.3        54.7
WFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TMOUSAND)                            ..          .      108.0             ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATON)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      66.0           56.4       26.3        34.4
UiRBAN                             ..           .      88.0           83.4       58.5        57.9
RMRAL                              ..          ..      50.0           34.3       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Of POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       ..            59.1       16.0        40.8
URBAN                              .           . R.                   78.2       65.1        71.3
RAL                                ..           .        ..           26.4        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PIYSICIAN         2600.0      1910.0   1190.0/h        3677.0   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2730.0/h    1640.0/h  1150.0/h       1730.6    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           480.0       460.0    460.0           577.0    1417.1        726.5
URBAN                              ..       290.0    250.0              ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                              ..      2110.0   2090.0              *-    2445.9       1404.4
ADKZSSIOIS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          .         ..           21.8       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             S.0          ..       5.8            5.a        5.3         5.4
URBAN                             4.8          *-       5.6            5.5        4.9         5.1
AURAL                              ..          ..       6.0            6.0        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             1.9          ..       1.8
URBAN                             1.6          ..       ..
RURAL                    _         ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            38.0          .      45.7            45.1       23.5        28.1
URBN                             37.8          ..      77.0           67.9       17.8        45.1
RAL                                             .      19.6                                   99 ..



-  22  -                                                     ANNEX I
TABILE ZA                                                   Page  2  of  5
EGYPT - SOCLAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RLEFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyIJAGES
_   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAMlE       SAKE     NEXT HIGHiEk
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCUME
1960 Ab     1970 / ESTIMATE  b       REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCAT7nN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                66.0         69.0      72.0             85.0       63.3        82.7
MALE                 80.0         84.0      88.0           103.7        79.1        87.3
FEMALE               52.0        53.0       56.0            66.0        48.4        75. 8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  16.0        32.0      42.0             27.6       16.7        21.4
MALE                 24.0        44.0       54.0            39.2        22.1        33.0
FEMALE                9.0        21.0       29.0            20.8        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Y OF SECODMARY)  22.0         19.0      18.0              4.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0         38.0      40.0            32.6        41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                         16.0         25.0      29.0            23.4        21.7        23.4
ADL'LT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       26.0          ..      44.0             41.4       31.2         54.0
CONSU FT GON
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0          4.0       6.4             16.7        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PERl THOUSA.ND
POPULATION                        58.0        132.0     138.0            147.9       27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.9        16.0      17.0            36.0         2.4        U3.5
IEWSPAPER ("DAlLY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..         22.0      21.0             17.9        5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          2.0        ..              2.9        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     7482.0       9319.0    9600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    7.3         7.2       7.6             8.6        24.8        29.2
ACRICULTUR1E (PERCENT)            58.4         54.4      51.0             43.0       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                12.2         18.8      26.0            23.7        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               28.9         28.0      28.0             26.7       36.9        37.1
MALE                                 53.2        51.5      51.3             46.4       52.4        48.8
FEMALE                               4.2          4.1       4.3              5.1       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.6       1.8              1.8        1.2         1.4
INCOXE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS   17.5/1       17.64Li   22.0             21.4         ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.4/i       42.8LI._   49.2           48.6          ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/1        7.0 .OL   5.1             5.3          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5SJ       18.7LI  14.8              15.0         ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      116.0           201.3        99.2       241.3
RURAL                                ..          ..      84.0            134.2       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     153.0           288.6        91.9       179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..       65.0           107.0        54.8       103.7
ESTlMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               *-           *-      21.0            22.9        44.1        24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       25.0            31.2        53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are popuLation-weighted geometric means. excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most popuLated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among tne
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estl-te, between 1974 and 1977.
7c    North Africa & Middle East;  'd  Low Income ($280 or less per capita. 1976);  /e  Lower Middle
Income (S281-550 per capita, 1916);   If  1950-55;   L.  19tO-62;  jb  Registered, noc all
practicing in the country; /i 1964-65; !1 rural expenditure only.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-23 -
AM!StX 
OEFIIITIOI4S OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                        Paes  3 of 5
lInt:  The adu.st*d group averages for each indicator sr. papularton-welghted geometric sesa,   stldlng the entre,. values of the i.dicst.r aNW  the seat
populated  ..untry In each group.  Coverage of courtcri.8 smong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  D.ve to lock of d.ta,
gpoup averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters aod indicatoro of access to wsate and excrete disposal, housing. income distribotion aod poverty are
al.ple popuiation-wetght.d geo.atrIc means without the exclusion of actress  aue
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                   Population Per ho!!_tit.   bed -total. urb              total d  Population  (total.
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland ..atrs.                             urban, and rural) dlvided by  hthir rapetctlve _number of hospital boed
AXoIcult-rl - Ko.t recant estimate of ar~icultural area used temporarily                       available in puhlic and private gSn.ra1 and specialiload hoapitu1 Andre
or permnen.tly for crops, pastures, sarket and kitchen gardena or to                         hsbilitation centers.  Roapitals a-  etablIshments permanently st.ffad by
Ies fallow.                                                                                 at least one phyeiri...  E.tablish-ets providing principally custodial1
care a:re sot.Included.  Aural.hoapItaII.. how.ver. lciude health and sedi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP4 per capita oatisatas at current sarket prtcss,                      cal     trs not per aetly  a affd by a  hyIcia I (but byamedical as-
calculxte'd by saee  conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sietant. nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960. 1970, and 1977 data,                                                                  provide a limited rauge of medical facilities.
Akdmiaslona por hospital bed - Total number of admiselona to or discharges
ENERGY CONSL'XPTIIN PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of cosserclal "oergy                        from  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(toal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and bydro-. nuclear and gao-
thermal electricity) in kilogreas of coal equivalent par capita.                        HOCilAC
hveacge sloe of household (pers...a per hou-ehold) - total. urban, and rural1-
POPCLLATIO  Ai~DSVALSTiTC                                                                       A household consists of a group of Indivtduels who ahare living qu..rtets
I.14l PisIston. old-year (millions) - Ax of July 1; if not available.                          and their main seals..A0 i-arder or lodger may or rynot be tncl.ded In
acerage of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 197 7 data,                              the household for statistital purpoase.   Statistiosi definitinox of houa.-
Urban populatien (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to totai popula-                          hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                       Averag. number of pers.ns per room - total  ur.,b. -d  -ral - A-erge flu.-
of data among countries,                                                                    ber of persona per roo. in all, urban. and rural occupied conventional
Population de-sity                                                                            dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude nn-permnet struturs and
Per  sq. bkn. - Mid-yeat population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                      unoccupied parts.
of total Area.                                                                            Access to electricity (p,eccet of dwelling.) - total, urban, and rurial -
Per sq. ka. agriculture land - Computed a.sabove for agricultural land                       Conventional dwellings with electricity in  IIving quartets as perca..tage
only.                                                                                       of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectivelv.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-lb years), working-age
(15-64 yearu).  nd tet.red (65 yaars and over) asa percentages of mdd-                 EDUCATIONI
year Populatinn.                                                                         Adiusted enrollment ratio.
Population growth rate (percent) - total. and urban - Cospound annual                       Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-peat populations for 1950-60,                           at the primary level aso percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                       populations; normal.ly includes children aded b-il years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live, births per thousand of                          different lengths of primary education; for  -ootrie. with universal edo-
mid-year populatior,; ten-year arithmetic  -vrages ending is 1960 and                       cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending In 1975 for most recent estimate,                         above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                        Secondary school - total, and female - Compyuted as above; secondary educe-
yecar population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in..1975 for most recent estimate.                             vids. general vocational, or teacher training instrutions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughtrer  a woman will bear                       usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence cours.s are gene.rally
in her normal reproductive period if she emperiences present age-                           extluded.
spec ific fertility rates; usually fivs-year averages ending in 1960,                     Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions iq:-
1970, and 1975.                                                                             clude t.chnical. industrial, or cther programs which operate independently
Fasily pl.,noing - accepto, annual...   (thousands) - Annual number of                         or aa departments of secondary institutiona.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                     Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
pl'anning prog:ramu.e                                                                       primary and secondary levele divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
eamily planing     sr  (p.rc.nt of married women) - Percentags of                              sponding levels.
sarried women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who uae birth-control                   Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and n-rite) as
devices to all married women in sam  ag  group.                                             a p.rc.ntage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                         CONISUMPTION
Indem  of food productio  per fcpIta (1970.100) - Index number of per                      Peassenger cars (per thousand population) - Psasesger cars comprise motor cars
capita annua  production ofalfo  co-a-dities.                                             seating less than eight persons; ...cudee ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent ci requirements) - Computed from                     vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in coutry per capita                    Radio receivers  (per thousand population) - All type. of recei.ers fcr radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic productIon, imports less                   broadcasts to general public per thouaand of population; euciudes unlicense.d
exports, snd changes in stock.  Neot supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                 receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                      effect; date for recent years may not be ..onparable since most contries
quirmemnts were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                    abolished licensing.
sal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                      TV receivers (per thcu..and population) - TV receivers for brodcat to aenert
weights. age and sex distributiona of population, and allowing 1i per-                       public par thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in c.oo-
cent for waste at household level,                                                          tries and in years whben registration of IV sets was in affect.
Per capita supply of prote,in .(gramaprdy  - Protein content of per                        Newspaper circulation (per thoouxnd population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supplyofodpra.  Net supply of food is defined as                                 tion of "daily general interest newspaper', defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all. countries established by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily  to recording general news.  It is considered to
a*minimum allowance of 60 grama of total protein per day and 20 grams                       be "daily' if it appears at least four times a weeb.
of animal and Pulse protein. cf which 10 grams should he animal protein.                 Cinema annual attendance per capita per rear - Based on the number of tlbtkt
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total yrotein and                       soid during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinesas and mobile
2) grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                         units.
FAO In tha Third World Food Survey.
For capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                  D"L0YMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                        Total labor frrce (th ...and.) - Ecoso..ically actire persons, including armed
Child (.xes I-4)  -otality rate (per thousand) - Annual1 deaths per thoue-                     forces and unemployed but encluding housewives, students.  etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children In this age group.                                  tions in variouu countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force ae percentage of total labor forte.
HEALTH                                                                                      Agriculture  (percent) - Labor force tn farmirg, fcrrncr-.  hunting and ficItlvo
life osecrurc  at birth (rea.rs) - Average nuber of years of life                              as per-antage of t,tal labor force.
remaining at birth: usu ally five-year averages ending in l960. 1970.                    Industry (percent) - Labor force in nining, contruction, manufacturIng and
and. 1975.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor farce.
Infant mortality rate (par thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                      Participation rate (percent) - total, male. and female - Total, male, and
one yosr of age per thousand lire birhts.                                                   'emale labor force an percentages of their r-pe-tiv-  populatlen-
ACcess to safe wute.fj__perent_of__population) - total, u~rban, and rural -                    Thes .. re. 11.09,  d,Iu-r.d parricipatios  arey.. -re   t-etg age--e
Number ot peop.e (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                         utruc.r.r or the popu.lation,  nsd iorsi time trend.
safe water supply (Includes treated surface waters or untreated but                      Inr-oic dependenc, ratio - Ratio of Population under 15 and 65 and ovr to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boraholes,  springs,                        the labor for~..  In age group ot 15-64 pesos.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respactire Populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpo.t located not note                        pNCOyoE DISTRIBUTION
than 200 metars from a house may be considar..d as b.ing within re-                      Percentage of private inooms (both in cash and bind) rec.ivsd by rinhest 5
sonable access of that hou-e.  In rural areas reasonable acCaes  wou ld                      percent, richest 210 percent.  poorest 20 percent. and poorest If parcect
imply that the housewife or members of the ho-aehold do rot have to                         of households.
spend a disproportionat. part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                            PCUVFRTY 7ARIT GROVPS
Avers t  encrea d;0jcal  (jecent of population) - tQtAi_jrbr.and                    Etot;Jted abuciuite   vettv  Incom    eniii  pre  capita) -  rba av2oua 
rura1 - Number ot people (total,. urban, and rural) narv-d hr encreta                          Absolute poverty Inc.ne 1orel is that inco.e level below  which a minimal
disposal  as percentage.s of thair respective populations.  tEcrta                           nutriti.nallv adequate diet plus  senil on-food requice-ot. I  not
disposal may include the collection sod disposal, w.ith or without                           affordable.
.r.atsrnt, of human suoreta and  at-wtrby water-borne systema                           Etlatintd relative   eetjnoelvl(l   e   aia       ra   v r                       ua-
orth. u.a of.pit privies sod similar inscIllati.na.                                        Relative povrty lnnvs-  leve  is that income lec-1 lass than  -n-third
FpOulqr-n 2_er2hl,1cia   - Population dtnidsd by number of pr-rticing                          per capita personal  income of the  -ounr-.
physici.ns quaIli.vd from a medical school at uoicsrsity levelLet. E timted 2.ou1a.i- trto  rw,,                                     9Mti.t. evnl poce .A        rbn, acd total
top_ul.~r- lv  _jer varyt   pe.ocn - Population dlrid.d hr number ot                           Perc-t vi ;.'ful:l-.t-  ic tan  rura) why ore eitler  'absolute  ;-r" cc
pra-tic-nd ..I. ani lassie graduate nurses,.  practical nurs.... an d                        "relat'ive poor  whicheve  is greater.
a.sistant nurse..
Economic an~d Social Dats Ditiuto,n
Econeelc Analysis and Projections Department



ANNEX I
-   24                               Pogo4of5
UCOMOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA (1978)-US$400                                          MID-1978 POPULATION - 38.7 Million
(World Bank Atlas Methodology)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z. Constant Prices)
US$ Mtn,       h                    1961-66 1/        1967-74 1/       1975-78 2/
GNP at Market Prices              13,600      100.0                       5.4              3.6             13.3
Gross Domestic Investment          3,590       26.4                      10.7              5.4             24.9
Current Account Balance          -1,760        12.9
Export of Goods, NFS               3,530        26.0                      4.3              6.2              7*8
Import of Goods, NFS               6,490       47.7                      8.8               9.2              7.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                 Labor Force 3/             V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %                Mln.     %                               7S $
Agriculture                        3,350        28.7              4.135   41.1                 810        15.7
Industry 4/                        3,460       29.6               1.902   18.9                1820       35.4
Distributive Sector                2,340        20.0              1.560   15.5                1500        29.1
Services                           2,530       21.7               2.472   24.5                1020        19.8
Total/Average             11680/2920      100.0             10,069  100.0                1160       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 5/
US$ Mln.           7 of GNP
1978        1974         1978
Current ReceiF's                   5,310           33.9         39.1
Current Expenditure                4,640           34,0         34.2
Current Surplus/Deficit              670           -0.1          4.9
Capital Expenditures               3,310           13.8        24.3
External Financing (net)           1,140            3.3          8.4
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1973        1974         1975         1976         1977         1978
(Million L.E. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   1207         1515         1883         2417         3185         4090
Bank Credit to Public Sector            1852         2338         3527         4123         4775         6035
Bank Credit to Private Sector            102          149          230          251          434          570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 7 of CDP       31.7         36.1         38.5         38.5         43.4         47.5
Wholesale Price Index (1973 - 100)   100.0          112.4        119.1        131.4        145.0        157.7
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                   10.4         12.4          6.0         10.3         10.3          8.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector             9.6         26.2         50.9         16.9         15.8         26.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector           10.9         46.1         54.4          9.1         72.9         31.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the 1978 weighted exchange rate of US$1.496   1 LE.
1/  At 1965 Constant Prices.         -
2/  At 1975 Constant Prices.
3/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
4/  Manufacturing and Mining,. Petroleum, Electricity and Construction.
5/ Local Government comprises a small part of General Government.
not applicable



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMINTS                                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-78)
1975       1976       1977      1978                                       UsS Mln.   %
(US$ million)
Cotton                      354       19.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           2,194       2,759    .3,537      3,530          Yarn and Textiles            364      20.4
Imports of C&oods. NiS         -4,931     -4,910    -5,486    -6,490            Petroleum                    442      24.7
Other Agriculture           224       12.5
Imports of Foreign               -140       -240       -330      -290           All other commodities       405       22.6
Oil Companies
Total               1,789      100.0
Workers' Remttsnres               366         755       894      1,760
Other Factor Services (Net)      -104       -202       -205       -270
Net Factor Services               2IS         3         689     1.4=0
EXTERNAL DEBT (MLT). DECEMBER 31. 1978
Batance on Current Aceoutnt   -2,615      -1,838    -1,590    -1,760
Amortitation                     ^600       -734       -812       -900                                            US$ Mtln.
To'ss Deficit                 -3.215      -2 572    -2,402   :u]i
To*lDefci  21240  -2660Public debt, incl. guaranteed  9,970 1/
Repayments on public debt          900
Direct Foreign Investment         140        300        434       440           Interest on public debt            390
Grants                          1,076        792        445        345
MLT Borroving                   2 509      12622      3.027      2,585
3.725      2 714      3.906     3.370
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978 2/  23.7%
Other Capital fNet)             -152         236       -961      -495
Residuat                        -420        -333       -348      -145
Tneresse in Reserves 4+)         ^62          45        195        71
Gross Reserves tend ye.r)         294         339       534        605
Fuet and Related Materials
Imports
of vhich: Petroleum         -477       -385       -250      -200
Evports
of vhieh: Petroleum          164        268        600        730
11  $10,590 mil3oi  *s of July 31, 1979.
V   Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services.
February 4, 1980



ANNEX I1
-26  -                                               Page I of a
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(March 31, 1980)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit         Approved                                                                          loes  cancallations
Numbers               FY        Borrower         Purpose                                   Bank      IDA    Undiabursed
Ln 243-UAR              60           SCA            Suez Canal Expansion                      56.5      -_
Cr 181-UAR              70           LAR            Nile Delta Drainage                        __    26.0           1.9
Cr 284-WAR              72           ARE            Railways I                                 --     30.0          0.8
Cr 393-L'AR             73           ARE            Upper Egypt Drainage                       --     36.0          4.0
Cr 412-UAR              73           ARE            Development Industrial Bank 1/             --     15.0          0.3
Cr 423-UAR              74           ARE            Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation              --     18.5          3.5
Cr 437-UAR              74           ARE            Population                                 --      5.0          o.1
Cr 484-WAR              74          ARE             Talkha Fertilizer                          __     20.0          0.4
Cr 524-EGT              75          ARE            Ag/Ind Imports                              --    35.0           0.3
Ln 1062-EGT             75           ARE            Ag/Ind Imports                            35.0      --          1.2
Ln 1064-EGT             75           SCA            Suez Canal Rehabilitation                 50.0      --         21.7
Ln 1085-EGT             75           ARE            Tourah Cement                             40.0      --          4.0
Ln 1098-EGT             75           ER             Railways II                               37.0      --         10.4
Cr 548-EGT              75           ARE            Telecommunications                         --     30.0          3.1
Cr 576-EGT              76           ARE            Development Industrial Bank II 1/    --           25.0          0.5
Ln 1239-ERT             76           APA            Alexandria Port                           45.0      --         32.7
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/        76           ARE            Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                  50.0      --        42.3
Cr 637-ERT              76          ARE             Upper Egypt Drainage II                    __    40,0         23.1
Ln 1285-EGT             76          ARE            Upper Egypt Drainage II                    10,0      --         10.0
Ln 1292-ECT             76          ARE             Textile Rehabilitation                    52.0      --         34.8
Ln 1369-EGT             77          AWA             Alexandria Water Supply                   56.0      --        45.2
Cr 681-EGT              77          ARE             Education                                  --     25.0          5,8
Cr 719-EGT              77          ARE            Nile Delta Drainage II                      __     27.0         13.9
Ln 1439 EGT             77          ARE             Nile Delta Draioage 10                   27.0       --        27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/        77          ARE            Nile Delta Drainage II                     12.0      --         12.0
Ln 1453-EGT             77           EEA            Regional Electrification                  48.0      --         28.6
L. 1456-ERT             77          ARE             Industrial Imports                        70.0      --         38.0
Ln S-005-EGT            77          ARE             Iron Ore Beneficiation and                 2.5      __          1.1
Engineering
In 1482-ERT             78           SCA            Suez Canal Expansion                    100.0       --        41.4
Cr S-20-EGT             78          ARE             Water Supply Engineering                   --      2.0          0.2
Cr 774-EGT              78          ARE             Telecommunications II                     __      53.0        53.0
Ln 1533-EGT             78          DIB             Development Industrial Bank III          40.0       --         28.0
Cr 830-ERT              78          ARE            Agricultural Development                   --      32.0         32.0
Cr 831-ERT              78          ARE             Urban Development                          __     14.0         13.7
Cr 850-ERT              79          ARE             Second Population                          __    25.0         24.9
Cr 868-EGT              79          ARE             Second Education                           --    40.0          38.7
Ln S-14-EGT             79          ARE             New Valley Phosphate Engineering          11.0      --          4.3
and Technical Assistance
Cr 909-EGT              79          ARE             Tourism                                    --     32.5        32.5
Ln 1732-EGT             79          ARE             Gulf of Suez Gas                          75.0      --         75.0
Cr 935-EGT              79          ARE             Shoubrah El Kheima                                37.0         37.0
Thermal Power
Ln 1733-EGT             79           EEA            Shoubrah El Kheima                      102.0       --        102.0
Thermal Power    5/
80          ARE            Agroindustries 4/                          --    45.0          45.0
80          DIB            DIB 4/                                    50.0      --         50.0
80          ARE            Textiles 4/                               69.0      --         69.0
Totals                                                                                     1038.0   613.0       1013.4
Of which has been repaid                                                                     58.5
Total now outstanding                                                                       979;
Amount sold                                                                 7.5
Of which has been repaid                                                    7.4               0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                              9794   613.0
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in USS million)
Year            Obligor                        Type of Business                         Loan           Equity        Total
1976           Arab Ceramic Company            Ceramic Industry                        4.25              .75          5.0
(Plus .635 contingency commitment)  (5.635)
1977            Nile Clothing Company          Ready-Made Garment Industry              0.40            0.20          0.60
1978            Delta Sugar Company            Agricultural Production,               20.0              2.00         22.00
mainly sugar               (Plus 1.0 standby commitment)           (23.00)
1979            Ismailia Misr Poultry          Food and Food Processing                 5.97            1.52          7.49
Company
1979            Ismailia Fish Farming          Food and Food Processing                 1.929            .453         2.382
Company                                               (Plus 0.1 contingency commitment)   (2.482)
32.549            4.923       37.472
(Plus contingency commitment)           (39.207)
1t Formerly Bank of Alexandria
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Not yet effective
T/ Not yet signed
5/ Not included is EEC Sp. Action Credit 20 of $35.0 million



-  27  -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The only outstanding activity on this project is installation of
field drainage, which remains to be accomplished on about 9 percent of the
project area of 950,000 feddans. Progress on this activity is slow due mainly
to management problems with public sector contracting companies. Work is
complete on other major components including some 1,700 km surface drains and
eleven pumping stations. The Drainage Authority expects to achieve full
completion of the project ending December 1980.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project generally was implemented satisfactorily but progress
on the electrical signalling items,which is 95 percent complete, has been at a
standstill for the last two years due to difficulties with municipal authori-
ties regarding site occupation. Successive extensions of the loan period have
been necessary. ER has been informed that no further extensions will be
agreed beyond the present closing date. The disbursement total is likely
to be US$29 million.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Work is almost complete on some 1,640 km surface drains in 300,000
feddan project area. Of the five pumping stations, one is operational and
work on the others is  about 82 percent complete.   Installation of
tile drains is about 61 percent complete.  Progress on this activity is slow
because of inadequate management by contractors and physical difficulties
arising from sugarcane which occupies in the cropping pattern some 50 percent
of the area. Bilharzia Control Program is proceeding as scheduled. Progress
on procurement is satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in 1982. The remainder of the full project is being financed by a loan from
the Saudi Fund for Development. The foreign cost estimates for the project
have remained basically unchanged, but the local component continues to
escalate mainly due to delays caused by shortage of local funds.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date:  January 22, 1975; Closing Date:  April 1, 1980.
Project is nearing mechanical completion; procurement has been
completed. According to the latest indication, the project is expected to be
commissioned by mid-1980, about two years behind schedule, partly because of
delays in civil works and procurement.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date:  March 19, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.3 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Discussions are presently taking place with the
Government regarding the utilization of the uncommitted funds prior to the
closing date which has been extended by one year.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress in implementation has improved and about 85 percent of the
project funds have been committed. The design of the last major item of
equipment to be financed from the loan is now being undertaken. Because of
the initial delay in implementation, the project is now expected to be com-
pleted only by December 1981; the closing date of the loan will, therefore,
have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items are
already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further delayed
project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is expected to be
only towards early 1981.



-  29  -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Ettective Date:  August Zu, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of locomotives
and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is also behind
schedule.  Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock maintenance
with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate companies with
overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions. The 1980-84 draft
investment program contains many large investments including new lines for
which no economic justification has been demonstrated. The financial situation
is poor and a deficit of LE 38 million was forecast for 1979. After many
years without tariff increases, substantial increases in freight tariffs were
made in 1979, and passenger fare increases are promised for 1980. A draft
decree which would establish a National Railway authority and aims to give the
railways inter alia considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and
staff salaries is under discussion.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Procurement has now been completed and the IDA credit has been
fully committed. Procurement of the telex exchanges was transferred to
the Telecommunications II project. Physical installations are about two
years behind the appraisal schedule mainly because of initial delays in
procurement actions and in building construction.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date:  October 31, 1980.
The credit is now fully committed and $24.5 million has been dis-
bursed as of April 2, 1980.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The contract for the major part of the civil works and dredging was
awarded in April 1979 and work is now progressing. Procurement of equipment is
also progressing satisfactorily. Because of the delayed start of the main
civil works, the project is now expected to be completed only by June 1982; the
closing date of the loan will, therefore, have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is now over two years behind schedule.  Work on the
drainage and irrigation components of the project is proceeding although



-  30  -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
behind schedule. The seed component has major problems, which the Bank is now
discussing with Egyptian officials. The Agricultural Development Lending Unit
in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World Bank, to ensure
that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, and
to identify additional sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded
to allow financing of agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing
liberalized.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work is progressing in accordance with the revised schedule on some
1,602 km of surface drains in 500,000 feddans. Overall progress is about
55 percent. As compared to appraisal target of 240,000 feddans, field drainage
is complete on only about 24,000 feddans. This shortfall has resulted from a
delay of almost two years with supply and erection of USAID financed equipment
for three PVC pipe-making factories. As these factories are now nearing
production, the work of installing tile drains will be accelerated. Contracts
for the same have already been awarded covering the entire project area.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a year and a half delay caused by a
later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The project is
now estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent (all in local currency)
more than appraised, due to increased scope of civil works and general price
increases of construction materials beyond what was expected at appraisal.
No difficulties are foreseen in financing this, although some government
equity contribution would be required in the next two years to supplement the
companies' internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial
covenants as well as project costs. Early management problems have now been
overcome and both companies have developed effective project implementation
units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting initial delays in
procurement. However, about 90 percent of the contracts for machinery and
equipment have now been awarded and the balance is expected to be awarded in
the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After a second round of bidding for construction of the pipelines,
borrower decided to reject all bids as being out of line with prices obtainable
from local contractors for similar work, and informed the Bank that it wished
to execute this component with local contractors using Egyptian funds. Accord-
ingly it requested cancellation of that part of the loan. The Bank has thus
cancelled US$2.85 million. The construction contract for the treatment plant
extensions is currently out to bid.   Proposals for data processing equip-
ment and training have been called for.   Meter replacement to improve



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page b of 8
AWA's operations continues at a satisfactory pace. An application for a
general tariff increase is with the Governor for consideration by the
Alexandria Local Council but approval is still pending.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation, since the transfer of two MOHE institutes
to Credit 868, is proceeding satisfactorily. Virtually all technical assis-
tance has been completed. About 90 percent of all equipment has been procured
and nearly all has been installed. Of the 23 institutions to be constructed
17 are completed and are operational, 5 will be completed by August and the
other by December 1980. All of the existing institutions being re-equipped
are operational. About 77 percent of Credit amount has been disbursed and
nearly all of the remainder has been committed.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
TI Project; US$27 Million Credit, US$27 Million Loan and US$12 Million Third
Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Progress on surface drains is satisfactory with completion achieved
in some 230,000 feddans out of total area of 815,000 feddans. For construction
of four new and renovation of two existing pumping stations, the contractors
have started preliminary works following award of contracts in December 1979.
Work has not started on installation of field drainage in 400,000 feddans.
Progress on this activity will depend upon KfW financed PVC pipe-making
factory (planing is currently in progress). This factory is expected to be
commissioned more than one year behind appraisal target of December 1979. It
would accordingly delay completion of field drainage, which is critical
to full completion of the project.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date:  February 6, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31,
1981.
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, however. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. The Tariff Study financed
under the Loan has been completed. Consultants for the distribution companies
have been engaged. All contracts for equipment, materials and technical
assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
As of February 29, 1980, about $31.4 million had been disbursed and
about $38.3 million committed, representing some 55 percent of the total loan.
Utilization of the loan proceeds has been slow mainly because of delays in
procurement of equipment for public sector firms.



-  32  -                      ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date was
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a rehabilitation
and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as demolition and procurement of tugs,
there is some delay. This, however, is not expected to materially affect
the project completion date. The financial situation of the borrower is
sound, canal traffic and revenue being higher than appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date:  April 28, 1978; Closing  Date:
June 30, 1980.
Formal presentation of final draft report took place in December
1979 and Government comments have been incorporated into the draft report.
Project in Beheira Governorate identified in the report.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As of
February 29, 1980, $10.8 million had been disbursed and $35.5 million had been
committed. The balance of the Loan is expected to be committed by June
1980.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Some reallocation of Credit proceeds was agreed to in September
1979. Bid documents for a substantial part of the equipment and materials to
be financed under the Credit had been processed by January 1980, and the rest
are expected by May 1980.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Satisfactory progress has been made in procurement of farm machin-
ery. Institutional development is lagging behind appraisal expectations.



ANNEX II
-  33  -                        Page 8 of 8
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Key staff have been appointed; draft terms of reference for some
advisors and consultants have been agreed;and contracts are being finalized.
Preliminary steps on the design of physical works have been started. Completion
of the project is expected to be delayed by at least 18 months.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effective Date:  May 1, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983.
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. Recruitment of project personnel shows progress
but is not complete.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effective Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March 31,
1984.
Project implementation is proceeding very well. Of the twenty three
institutions to be constructed, two are completed, eight will be completed by
mid-1981, 10 will be completed in late 1981 and the three MOHE institutes are
expected to be completed on schedule by late 1983. Eighty four percent of all
equipment is under procurement with contracts already signed for 23 percent.
All technical assistance has been contracted and implementation is underway.
Disbursements are well ahead of schedule, a situation which is expected to
continue.
Ln. No. 5-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effective Date:  October 19,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment is underway and erec-
tion has started at mine site; laboratory tests of phosphate rock are being
carried out.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 Million of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project implementation has started.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75.0 Million of June 29, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project implementation is in progress. The onshore contract was
signed on March 23, 1980. Construction completion is scheduled for 19 months
after receipt of a 10 percent downpayment due within 30 days after signing.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT, Cr. No. 935-EGT and Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - Shoubrah
El Kheima Thermal Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date:
April 8, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30,19980.
Agreements declared effective on April 8, 1980.



ANNEX III
-  34  -                      PageI
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (MIDB) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by MIDB to prepare project:             10 months (September 1977 to
July 1978)
(b)  Date of first presentation to Bank:                September 1977
(c)  Agency preparing project:                          Misr Iran Development Bank
(MIDB)
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:            July 1978
(e)  Updating appraisal mission:                       October 1979
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:               March 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    November 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.        Condition of loan effectiveness:
Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
MIDB (para. 55).
2.        Other conditions:
(i) The Government will onlend the proceeds of the proposed loan to
MIDB at an interest rate of 8.75 percent per annum, under a subsidiary
loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank. MIDB will onlend the
funds at not less than 11 percent per annum (para. 55).
(ii) Bank financing will normally be confined to individual projects
of not more than $25 million in total cost and subloans of not more
than $3 million unless otherwise agreed by the Bank (para. 56).
(iii)  Individual subprojects whose total cost does not exceed $8 million
and for which the amount of the subloan is not more than $1 million
qualify as free limit subprojects. The first two subprojects,
however, irrespective of their size, will be submitted for the
Bank's prior review and approval (para. 56).



ANNEX III
-35                          Page 2
(iv) Individual procurement packages exceeding $5 million will require
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines, otherwise, through international shopping.
Tender documents and evaluation of bids for contracts requiring
ICB will be submitted for the Bank's prior review and comment
(para. 58).
(v) The proceeds of the loan will be allocated as follows: (a) a
minimum of 25 percent for building materials and construction/
contracting industries; (b) a minimum of 25 percent for capital
goods manufacturing industries; (c) a minimum of 25 percent for
industries estimated to export at least 20 percent of their output
in value, excluding projects qualifying under (a) and (b); and (d)
the remainder for other economically viable industrial projects
(para. 54).
(vi) A minimum economic rate of return of 12 percent will be required
for all projects financed from the proceeds of the proposed loan
(para. 56).



