Document of                   VILE  Caplt
The World Bank                      F
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 275 3-EGT
EGYPT
LOAN TO MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 9, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Untfied Market Rate
(Current)
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)        =                    $ 1.43
1 US Dollar ($)                                  LE 0.70
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
GOFI                          General Organization for Industrialization
IFZA                          General Authority for Investment and Free Zones
MIDB                          Misr Iran Development Bank
DIB                           Development Industrial Bank
CBE                           Central Bank of Egypt
IMDBI                         Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran
BOA                           Bank of Alexandria
The Plan                      The National Five Year Development Plan for
1978-1982
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This report was prepared by Messrs. Vijay K. Chaudhry, Samir El Daher
and Shyamadas Banerji of the Industrial Development and Finance Division
of EMENA Projects Department.



EGYPT                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LOAN TO MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ...............................
A.    Background and Structure  .....            ..................1
B.    Recent Performance ......            .......................1
C.    Developments in the Administrative and Policy
Framework ......................................                          2
D.    Industrial Potential and Priorities                ............           4
E.    Bank Assistance to the Industrial Sector               .......            9
II.    FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE                 .......          10
A.   Financial Institutions  .........................                         10
B.    Financing of Industrial Investment                .............          11
C.    Cost of Capital in Egypt  .......................                        13
III.    THE MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ......................                           14
A.    Establishment and Ownership  ....................                        14
B.    Board of Directors and Management  ....             ..........           15
C.    Organization ...................................                         15
D.    Staff ..........................................                         16
E.    Functions and Policies  .........................                        16
F.   Procedures ...............,.,.,.,......                                   18
G.    Operations  .....................................                        20
H.    Resource Position ..............................                         21
I.    Quality of Portfolio and Audit  ....              .............          22
J.    Financial Performance and Position ....              .........           23
K.    Projections of MIDB's Operations and Finances  ..                        24
IV.    THE PROJECT  .........................................                         28
A.    Background  .....................................                        28
B.    Objectives  .....................................                        28
C.    Scope ..........................................                         28
D.    Loan Amount and Allocation .....................                         29
E.    Main Features  ..................................                        30
F.    Project/Loan Benefits and Risks  ....              ............          32
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                ...........          33
ANNEX
1.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Background and Structure
1.01      Industry 1/ has become a significant sector of the Egyptian economy
with its share in GDP rising from around 8% in 1946 to about 17% in 1979.
In 1979, industry employed about 1.3 million persons, or nearly 13% of the
civilian labor force, and was responsible for about 30% of commodity exports.
The industrial structure which has emerged as a result of the import substitu-
tion patterns of development of the 1960's and early 1970's is weighted
heavily in favor of producing consumer goods. These account for about 58%
of industrial value added while intermediate products (building materials,
fertilizers, chemicals and metals) account for 34% and capital goods (see
paras. 1.15, 1.16) for only 8%.
1.02      As a result of the nationalizations of the early 1960s, the public
sector, comprising some 200 enterprises, accounts for almost all large and
medium scale industrial enterprises. It generates some two-thirds of the
value added in industry and mining and provides slightly more than half of the
total industrial employment, mainly in four subsectors: textiles, food, metal
and engineering. Egypt's basic industries are all in the public sector and
include iron and steel, aluminum and fertilizer. Textiles, food products,
leather, woodworking and furniture, and engineering (including metallic prod-
ucts) are the important industries of private activity. In 1974, about 4,000
establishments employing 10 or more workers employed 62% of the workforce in
the private sector; about 113,000 establishments employing less than 10 (the
artisanal sector) which produce mainly household goods, contributed 16% of
total manufacturing value added and 38% percent of private employment. The
structure has not changed significantly in the last decade or so. About
three-quarters of private manufacturing industries are located in Greater
Cairo and Alexandria.
B. Recent Performance
1.03      The performance of the industrial sector, which was characterized in
1973-74 by important idle productive capacities, rapidly improved during the
period 1975-77 following the announcement of the "open door" policy in 1973
which resulted in relaxation of controls and subsequent greater availability
of foreign exchange. This period was followed by a temporary slowdown in the
growth of industrial output in 1978 (5.7%), followed by a recovery in 1979
(11.5%). This recovery points to the increasing impact on production of
investment efforts made during the last few years. While the growth of
industrial output in the public sector in 1973 and 1974 was low (2.1% and
2.6%), during 1975-79 it jumped to about 8-9% per annum. In general, the
private industrial sector has performed somewhat better than the public sector
during the past few years. Private sector output which stagnated during
1972-74 increased by an annual average of 10% in real terms between 1974-79.
1/   Manufacturing and mining, excluding petroleum.



Leather, building materials, chemicals, woodworking and engineering were the
fastest growing private industries in that order. The textile and food
processing industries performed modestly.
1.04      Exports of manufactured products are estimated at about LE 550
million in 1979 (14% of the gross value of industrial output). Industrial
exports, particularly of the private sector, showed strong growth in 1974 and
1975, but declined sharply in 1976 because of reduction in exports to East
European countries under bilateral agreements. Some shift in exports to the
western markets has taken place resulting in an improved performance in
1978-1979. The share of private sector in total industrial exports declined
from 24% in 1975 to 14% in 1978, primarily due to reduction in exports to East
European countries. Major products exported by the private sector include
essential oils and chemicals, leather products, textiles and wooden furniture;
textiles, metallurgical products (pig-iron, aluminum, cold rolled sheets) and
food products are the main exports of the public sector. The potential for
exports is discussed in paras. 1.12-1.14.
1.05      The share of the private sector in total industrial investment
during 1969-74 had been extremely small, averaging about 4%. Following the
adoption of the "open door" policy, the private sector's share of total
industrial investment increased to about 10-12% during 1975-78 and 13% in
1979. Investment licenses issued by the General Organization for Industrial-
ization (GOFI) to the private sector increased from LE 67 million in 1975 to
LE 167 million in 1978, indicating an upsurge in the investment plans of the
private sector. In addition, some 243 manufacturing projects involving an
investment of LE 1,339 million by the private sector had been licensed until
the end of 1978 by the Investment and Free Zones Authority (IFZA) under Law
43/32. 1/ These developments reflect the favorable response of the private
sector to the Government's initiatives.
C. Developments in the Administrative and Policy Framework
The Administrative Set-up
1.06      Administrative control of the industrial sector continues to be
fragmented, with responsibility shared by several ministries. The Ministry
of Industry controls only about 60% of the value of production of Government-
owned industrial enterprises, and a number of important sub-sectors (construc-
tion materials, parts of the engineering sector) are entirely outside its
jurisdiction. Two institutions lodged in separate ministries are involved
in approving investment projects in the private sector. GOFI, in the Ministry
of Industry, approves most public sector projects and all private investments
in excess of LE 8,000 except for projects established under Law 43/32 (which
it reviews but cannot veto). The latter projects are approved by IFZA in the
Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation.
1/   However, the amount of investments actually realized for these projects
is not known.



-3-
Evolution of the Policy Framework
1.07      Until recently, the policy framework within which industry operated
was unduly restrictive. However, with the opening up of the economy under the
"open door" policy, the Government has relaxed controls over both private and
public sectors. Law 43 was adopted in 1974 to encourage foreign investment in
joint venture projects as a way of promoting technology inflow. It normally
provides for five year tax holidays and, in some cases, exemptions from or
deferrals of customs duties. Law 43 was amended by Law 32 of 1977, which
stipulated that the parallel market rate will be the applicable exchange
rate for foreign investments, repatriation of profits and original capital.
Earlier, investments had to be converted at the overvalued official rate. 1/
Law 32 also extended tax incentives to Egyptian owned projects in which some
foreign exchange has been invested as capital. These amendments have a favor-
able impact on investment. Law 43/32 is also applicable to public sector
companies, to the extent that new projects are established as joint ventures
under the law, thereby circumventing many of the restrictions imposed upon
state-owned firms (such as those relating to wages and salaries).
1.08      The import of raw materials, capital goods and spares has been made
easier under the Open General License Scheme administered by the Central Bank.
Also, the new foreign exchange law (Law 97/1976) allows transfer of foreign
exchange between individuals which facilitates imports under the "own exchange"
scheme. The recent revision of the income tax code has reduced the tax rates
on personal income which should assist the private sector, particularly owners
of small-scale industries (SSI). Tax rates on corporate income (at about 40%)
are reasonable.
Policy Issues
1.09      The major policy issues affecting industry are:  (a) lack of a fully
coherent industrial sector strategy and priorities for individual subsectors--
effective mechanisms for planning, coordination and control also need to be
developed; (b) anomalies in the granting of incentives to similar private
projects depending on whether these are approved by GOFI or IFZA; (c) anomalies
in the tariff structure and low levels of protection afforded the capital
goods industries; (d) inadequate export incentives and promotion measures to
support manufactured good exports and; (e) continuation of price controls over
some groups of industrial products. The resolution of these issues is important
for rational long-term development of Egyptian industry. 2/ The Government is
in the process of discussing with the Bank a study to help formulate an indus-
trial strategy and plan for the 1980's, an appropriate incentive framework and
an improved system for planning and implementation of planned investments.
.
1/   See para. 2.08, footnote 1.
2/   These issues have been discussed in the DIB Staff Appraisal Report,
February 28, 1978, #1809A-EGT and the Basic Economic Report, May 8,
1978, #1815-EGT.



- 4 -
D. Industrial Potential and Priorities
1.10      Egyptian industry has significant long-term prospects to grow and
to broaden its base, deriving primarily from the large and growing domestic
market and a strategic location with access to other markets in Europe. There
exists already an industrial structure, some infrastructure, a large, rela-
tively low-cost labor force, and an industrial tradition. Egypt has some
petroleum and, though not endowed with a wide range of other raw materials,
they are adequate to develop efficient industries in many sub-sectors. Since
the development of agriculture is proceeding slowly and the service sector
(mainly Government) is over-staffed, it is primarily to industry that the
Government looks to provide stimulus to growth through continued expansion,
efficient import substitution emphasizing intermediate and capital goods,
and through expanded exports, as well as to absorb the growing labor force.
Egypt's long-term potential is in products utilizing domestically available
raw materials which can be economically exploited (e.g., petroleum and mineral
products, cotton and textiles, some food products), or which are relatively
labor intensive (e.g., garments, leather and leather products, furniture and
engineering products).
1.11      Industry's role as a lead sector is reflected in the 1978-82 National
Development Plan (Plan), 1/ which allocates to industry around LE 3.4 billion or
29% of the total investment budget of around LE 11.6 billion. 2/ About 80% of
industrial investment is targetted for the public sector and the remaining 20%
is notionally earmarked for the private sector. Planned investment by joint
ventures (including private and public sector participation) is estimated at
about 19% of total. The Plan does not clearly identify priorities within the
sector and, thus, an overall strategy for its development. However, a review
of the Plan and various industrial sector studies (para. 1.26) point to the
need to develop exports and the capital goods and construction and industries
on a priority basis. Under the terms of the proposed loan, special emphasis is
placed on providing assistance to these industries. The potential for indus-
trial exports and the justification for priority support to capital goods and
construction industries is further elaborated below. Other industries such as
textiles, basic metals and food also are receiving priority attention from
Government, and offer potential for viable import substitution and some export
oriented projects.
Industrial Exports
1.12      The export performance of Egyptian industry has been reviewed in
para. 1.04. In textiles, the major traditional export, the long-term export
1/   Currently being revised as part of the preparation of the overall 1980-
84 plan.
2/   The amounts are in 1977 prices with the foreign exchange component of
investments converted at the old official rate of exchange of LE 0.40=$1.



-5-
growth potential is poor. Yarn exports are expected to stabilize at about
45,000 tons per year (attained in 1974) through the 1980s because of in-
creased competition from other yarn producing countries in East European
and Western markets as well as substitution of cotton by synthetic fibers.
Export potential of fabrics, garments and household goods are somewhat better.
Egypt is currently utilizing about half of the European Economic Community
(EEC) quota for these items (about 6,000 tons/year) and exports are con-
strained by lack of competitiveness (quality, design, delivery) and inadequate
market knowledge as well as export marketing facilities. Long-term export
growth for these items is estimated at 2% p.a. given the above constraints.
Total textile exports are forecast to range between 65,000-70,000 tons/year
during 1982-87 -- the level achieved in 1973-74. Given the limited potential
in textiles, there is a need to diversify and thus increase the volume of
industrial exports.
1.13      For Egyptian processed food products -- canned fruits and juices
and dehydrated vegetables -- there appear to be good export prospects in
neighboring markets, both in the short and longer terms. While the immediate
export prospects of the engineering industry are small, the introduction of
modern technology for the manufacture of capital goods and intermediate
components through joint-venture projects should significantly improve long-
term prospects for exports to neighboring African countries. 1/ Good export
potential exists for traditional products -- leather and furniture -- but
these require substantial inputs of technical assistance to improve product
design, production efficiency and product quality as well as marketing support.
The chemicals sub-sector is a growth sector for exports of SSI products, such
as essential oils and perfumes, as well as paint and plastic products of
larger firms. Export prospects of other major items where comparative
advantage exists in terms of resource availability, such as cement and natural
gas based fertilizer, are constrained both by high domestic demand and
potential competition from neighboring countries. In the metallurgical
industries, prospects for exports of steel in the longer term are not cons-
idered good because of the high cost structure of these industries.
1.14      The Plan forecasts industrial exports to grow at almost 25% p.a.
over the Plan period which appears overly optimistic in light of the various
problems facing industry as well as reduced export growth prospects for
cotton textiles. There is great need for a better policy framework, strategy
and program to expand manufactured exports. The experience of many countries
suggests that programs specifically oriented to export development are needed,
.
1/   Engineering products identified in a sector study (para. 1.26) as having
export potential in the medium and longer terms include fabricated metal
products, simple machine tools (bench drills, lathes, etc.), material
handling equipment, transport equipment and components.



especially where a country's regime has been persistently inward looking.
Egypt has some of the elements of such a program already, involving primarily
Law 43's mandate to attract foreign investors in export-oriented joint ven-
tures, and the Government is discussing a comprehensive export promotion
program with the International Trade Center. The Bank will address export
policy measures in the context of its sector dialogue with the Government
(para. 1.09).
The Capital Goods Manufacturing Industry
1.15      The contribution of capital goods industries 1/ to total manufactur-
ing value added is about 8%, which is low compared to other (industrializing)
countries at a similar level of development. The underdevelopment of the
capital goods industry in Egypt has been due to a variety of factors: lack
of contact with new technology, price controls, suppressed demand from the
private sector, and easy availability of imported capital goods for the public
sector under bilateral arrangements. The open door policy, involving relaxa-
tion of controls over the economy, has stimulated a large increase in indus-
trial investments and consequently in demand for capital goods, which augurs
well for the development of this industry.
1.16      In 1978, domestic output of engineering and metallurgical products
was valued at LE 569 million of which the share of capital goods is estimated
at about 60%. Capital goods imports totalled LE 1150 million (26% of all
registered imports). Thus, it is estimated that imports satisfied about 80%
of domestic consumption of capital goods. Data for a recent year indicate
that the share of imports was the largest in non-electrical machinery (94%),
followed by transport (66%) and electrical machinery (44%). Fabricated metal
products are mostly supplied from domestic sources. The Plan forecasts that
the cumulative demand for capital goods will total about LE 4 billion (in 1977
prices) during 1978-82 accounting for about one third of the total Plan
investment.
1.17      Many capital goods are skilled labor intensive 2/ and can be
produced efficiently at small and medium scales of production where skilled
labor is available at low cost. Egypt generally has an ample supply of labor
with basic industrial skills, although emigration in recent years has created
shortage of skilled workers in some areas. Wages for skilled and unskilled
1/   Capital goods are defined as engineering industry products which are
utilized for fixed investments in industry and other sectors and generally
include heavy electrical and non-electricial machinery, fabricated metal
items and some transport equipment. Consumer durables are excluded but
intermediate components entering into assembly of capital goods are
included in this definition.
2/   E.g. for foundry products, labor costs typically are about 30-40% of
total costs in developed countries.



- 7 -
labor are low compared to other industrial countries and labor skills can be
easily upgraded to enlarge supply. Domestic demand is sufficiently large and
growing to permit the establishment of production units for many products at
small and medium scales which would be competitive. Engineering industries in
general and capital goods in particular are less capital intensive than other
modern industries and require relatively lower capital investment per unit
output. Furthermore, capital goods can be produced at varying levels of
technology depending on product sophistication, scale production and skill
availability. The intermediate technology requirements for the manufacture of
many capital goods can be acquired by Egypt under joint-venture or licensing
arrangements. Finally, the current low level of protection afforded the
capital goods sector would ensure that all financially viable projects would
also be economically efficient.
1.18      Egypt, which so far has focused primarily on the development of
consumer and intermediate products, is now ready to enter into a higher phase
of industrial development by deepening the import substitution process and
thereby enlarging the share of the capital goods industry. The value added/
output ratio of the industry could be increased through diversification into
more complex fabricated products and a greater range of electrical and non-
electrical machinery, and by developing production of components and parts
previously imported, particularly for transport equipment. Manufacture of
intermediate components can be promoted through subcontractors selected from
the large number of small engineering firms (numbering over 10,000) in the
private sector. This would create employment at low investment cost and
facilitate the transfer of technology to smaller firms. With increases in the
size of the sector, specialty intermediate components (gear boxes, bearings,
etc.) can also be manufactured by larger firms. Other benefits which would
result from the growth of a local capital goods industry include greater
standardization of products, thereby reducing maintenance and inventory costs,
and development of appropriate designs to suit local conditions.
The Construction Industry
1.19      In many instances, costly delays in implementation of projects in
Egypt (including Bank financed projects) have been caused due to construction
problems and capacity constraints emanating from: obsolete equipment;
outmoded construction techniques, code and standards; inadequate regulations
and bidding procedures for awarding contracts for public construction works;
shortage of skilled manpower due to emigration to neighboring Arab countries;
and shortage of building materials. The increased emphasis on housing con-
struction (to alleviate the critical shortage of housing that has developed
over the last two decades) and the 1973 post-war reconstruction program, have
taxed heavily the capacity of the construction industry. The volume of work
carried out by the domestic construction industry approximately doubled from
an estimated LE 277 million in 1973 to LE 542 million in 1975, but increased
to only about LE 550 million in 1976 and LE 600 million in 1977. An increase
in capacity of almost 20% p.a. will be required to meet the Plan target for
construction output of about LE 4 billion (or about 34% of the Plan investment)
over 1978-1982.



- 8 -
1.20      Recognizing the importance of the construction industry and its
problems, the Government has taken several ad hoc remedial measures, notably:
removal of restrictions on volume ceiling for private contractors; provision
of incentives under Law 43 to foreign contracting companies to form joint
ventures in Egypt; introduction of competitive bidding procedure in awarding
public sector contracts; introduction of prefabricated houses; freer importa-
tion of building materials and implementation of projects (under construction
or planned) for increased domestic production of cement and bricks. To help
develop and implement a comprehensive strategy for the development of the
construction industry, including the requisite policy and institutional frame-
work, the Government is undertaking a thorough sector study, which commenced
in January 1980. The Bank has been instrumental in designing the study and
is financing its costs (under Loan 1456-EGT).
1.21      While the above study is essential to the long-term rational devel-
-opment of the construction industry, the critical bottlenecks in the industry
can be addressed, at least partially, without awaiting the outcome of the
study. They relate to increasing the capacity and efficiency of the contract-
ing companies, as well as the supply of building materials. The proposed
loan component for assisting the private construction industry will finance
projects in this area.
1.22      Construction Contracting Companies.  Since the nationalizations in
the early 1960's, public contracting firms (mainly 10 firms) have dominated
the construction activity. In 1977 they were responsible for about 77% of the
total construction output. The private contracting sector consists of some
3,000 small firms operating in all categories of buildings and civil works,
often as subcontractors to the larger public sector contracting companies.
Private contracting companies in particular are poorly equipped. To modernize
them, it was estimated that investment in machinery and equipment of almost
$100 million would be required over the plan period 1978-82. Availability of
financing, particularly term financing, would induce contractors to modernize
and would ease short-term liquidity constraints sometimes encountered in the
course of construction. Since many private contractors are not yet fully
prepared to invest in heavy equipment, the establishment of leasing companies
for modern building equipment, also providing trained operators, can smooth
the transition and be of valuable assistance to the industry. (MIDB is
studying the possibility of promoting such a company.)
1.23      Building Materials.  The production of building materials in Egypt
has not kept pace with the rapid increase in demand in recent years and severe
shortages have developed in the supply of cement and steel and increasingly
of bricks. The high cost of transportation of imports and the availability
of raw materials in Egypt provide the basic framework for the development of
economically viable building material industries to meet domestic demand. The
scope for exports is negligible. In consultation with the Bank, the Govern-
ment is preparing master plans for cement and bricks. Except for red bricks,
which are produced by the private sector, the production facilities for build-
ing materials are almost entirely in the public sector. New facilities for



- 9 -
production of cement and bricks using desert clay 1/ are under consideration
or planned in both public and private sectors. Investment opportunities exist
also in projects to increase the capacity for production of lime bricks,
asbestos cement pipes and sheets, concrete pipes and poles, ready-mix concrete,
ceramic products, flat glass and various quarry products. Many of these
investments could be undertaken in the private sector or jointly by the
private and public sectors under Law 43.
E. Bank Assistance to the Industrial Sector
1.24      The Bank's recent industrial lending program has included assistance
to the Government in its attempt to: (i) relieve foreign exchange constraints
and thus improve capacity utilization (program loans); (ii) rationalize sub-
sectors to improve productivity; (iii) assist individual, large, high priority
projects; and (iv) develop financial intermediaries (DFCs) to enable finan-
cial and technical assistance to be extended to private sector firms. Loans
to important government-owned enterprises for which the Bank can induce a
dialogue and help resolve serious sector problems will continue to make up a
preponderant share of the industrial lending program.
1.25      Bank assistance to private industry is being provided almost entirely
through DFCs. The need for modernization of private industry is widespread
and the scope for economic development and expansion of the sector is substan-
tial. While the proposed loan is the first to MIDB, it will be the fifth DFC
operation in Egypt; the others have been with the Development Industrial Bank
(DIB). There is ample room for both DIB and MIDB in contributing to industrial
development in Egypt. The scope of loans through DFC operations is being
tailored to emphasize special purpose lending which can increasingly supplement
the basic long range effort of assisting private small- and medium-scale
private industries and institution building. Hence the proposed loan to MIDB
has been designed to especially promote and finance export based projects as
well as projects in the capital goods and construction industries, all in the
private sector. The Bank is assisting small-scale industries with financial
assistance through DIB and has initiated a pilot technical assistance program
(under Loan 1533-EGT) through the Engineering and Industrial Design Development
Center (EIDDC) and the Ministry of Industry.
1.26      The Bank's sector work is directed at introducing policy and struc-
tural improvements. Towards this end the Bank is discussing with the Govern-
ment a study to help formulate an industrial strategy and plan for the 1980's,
an appropriate incentive framework and an improved system for planning and
implementation of planned investments. (The Bank would assist the Government
in undertaking this study). The Bank has also financed six subsector studies
in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food processing, metallurgy,
1/   To stop the erosion of agricultural land and on ecological grounds the
Government is prohibiting the use of Nile clay for brick production.



- 10 -
and engineering industries, in order to assist the Government in formulating
a package of policy and investment proposals, which would bR embodied in
future projects. In addition, the Bank is assisting the Government in under-
taking a major study of the construction/contracting industry, which is one
of the most critical bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today, as well as in
initiating studies to develop a brick master plan and cement distribution
master plan.
II. FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE
A. Financial Institutions
2.01      Long-term institutional financing for industry in Egypt is provided
mainly by DIB and MIDB, the only two industrial development banks in Egypt.
The primary function of DIB, a public sector bank, is to promote and finance
productive industrial enterprises, mainly in the private sector. DIB is active
in the financing of small scale industries and reconstruction and expansion of
medium scale industries. The large demand for DIB assistance from such proj-
ects is likely to continue to keep DIB's promotional activity for medium and
large projects to a negligible or low level in the foreseeable future despite
the efforts to strengthen the institution to perform its important role as the
primary development bank for industry in Egypt.
2.02      MIDB, in turn, sees its role as that of a promoter and financier
of medium and larger industries in the private sector, particularly of joint-
ventures that bring in appropriate foreign technology as well as foreign
investment. An important part of MIDB's financing is in the form of equity
investments in joint stock companies, and MIDB plans to roll over such invest-
ments when feasible, thus contributing to the development of the capital
market in Egypt. In financing large projects MIDB often plays an important
role of mobilizing other institutional resources for the project. The role
of MIDB is thus complementary to that of DIB although both may compete in
financing some medium size industrial projects.
2.03      Other banks providing significant amounts of financing for indus-
trial investments are the four state owned banks (National Bank, Bank Misr,
Bank of Alexandria and Bank of Cairo), Cairo Barclays (one of the many joint-
venture banks) and the two international banks located in Cairo--Arab African
Bank and Arab International Bank. Of the non-banking financial institutions,
only the Misr Insurance Company has been a significant financier of idustrial
investments. Most of the financing by these institutions, except for Cairo
Barclays, has been in the form of equity investments. They often depend on
MIDB (or sometimes DIB) for appraising projects for cofinancing but some have
financed projects also on their own. In particular, Bank Misr has a strong



- 11 -
interest in establishing large industrial projects while National Bank has
shown interest in small scale industry financing.
2.04      The combined portfolio (equity investments and medium and long-term
loans) of all the above institutions excluding DIB and MIDB, was estimated
at about LE 110 million in mid-1978. Of this about LE 60 million was in
industry, almost entirely in the private sector (including joint-ventures).
In comparison, as of June 30, 1979, the portfolio of DIB and MIDB amounted to
around LE 46 million and LE 12 million (equivalent), respectively, mostly in
private sector industry.  The portfolios of DIB and MIDB are expected to grow
rapidly with annual approvals of term loans and equity investments currently
being of the order of LE 30-35 million for DIB and about half of that for
MIDB. The state owned banks may also provide substantial sums for large
joint-venture projects promoted by the public sector. While the government is
keen on increased investment financing from the large number of joint-venture
banks and foreign bank branches operating in Egypt, there is little evidence
that they (except for a couple) plan to do such financing. Commercial banking,
including short-term lending, is likely to remain their main or only interest.
They have already taken a good share of the private sector commercial banking
business, but the public sector business, which accounts for about 80% of the
total, remains with the four state-owned banks.
2.05      There are two stock exchanges in Egypt, one in Cairo and one in
Alexandria, but they have not made a significant contribution to the mobili-
zation of industrial finance in the past two decades. The securities listed
include only 48 stocks (of which 21 have public sector majority ownership)
and eight bond issues (of Government or public sector institutions). Annual
trading volume has been about LE 15 million in recent years. A committee con-
sisting of representatives from CBE, IFZA, and the stock exchange has been
studying ways and means to revitalize the securities market. With the assis-
tance of IFC and a reputable international investment firm, the committee
drafted a law, which was enacted in December 1979, for the establishment
of a capital markets authority for the development and regulation of capital
markets in Egypt.
B. Financing of Industrial Investment
2.06      For private sector (including joint-venture) investments, the main
sources of financing are the financial institutions mentioned above. Public
sector industrial investments continue to be financed primarily from the
national budget and, to a limited extent, from internally generated funds.
The commercial banks generally provide the public sector with only working
capital financing, although some investments in fixed assets are also financed
with short-term loans that are rolled over.



- 12 -
2.07      DIB, the investment companies and the state owned commercial banks
provide both local and foreign currency resources while MIDB, Cairo Barclays
and the two international banks provide financing only in foreign currency.
Equity financing (mostly for local costs of projects) is estimated to account
on an average for about 40% of project costs. Local currency resources
(investors equity or short-term loans) are at times used to purchase foreign
exchange in the market to supplement or substitute for foreign exchange loans
for financing the foreign exchange costs of projects. The substitution or
competition for MIDB or DIB's foreign exchange loan financing has been small,
however, given the large demand for foreign exchange and the advantage that
MIDB and DIB have of providing long-term loans with suitable grace periods.
2.08      Foreign exchange funds can be purchased from the "official
market" 1/, which is controlled by CBE, for certain items it specifies ("free
import list") or as specifically authorized by a government committee for
requirements of projects approved by GOFI (para. 1.06). Projects approved
under Law 43 do not have access to the official market but can purchase
foreign exchange in the free market or import goods under the "own exchange
scheme". Free market transactions between buyers and sellers in Egypt are
legal provided they are transacted through authorized banks in Egypt (Foreign
Exchange Law 97/1976). The free market rate for foreign currency has been
about 5% to 10% higher than the CBE regulated "unified rate."
2.09      Industrial finance--particularly foreign exchange for the private
sector--has been in short supply in the past, but the supply has been increas-
ing rapidly in recent years. Inflow of foreign exchange resources from
bilateral and multilateral financial institutions (including the Bank Group),
workers remittances and tourism earnings have all helped to ease the situation.
Given a continuation of this trend in the inflow of resources (including those
to DIB and MIDB), the foreign exchange needs of the private industrial sector
can be met adequately by the existing financial institutions. There have
been very few financial instruments for mobilizing long-term local currency
resources, hampered by the low level of interest rates and the lack of Govern-
ment interest (until recently) in developing the capital market. Domestic
resource mobilization should improve with increasing interest rates (para.
2.10) and the development of the capital market, but this process is likely to
be a slow one. Equity capital of project promoters is expected to continue to
provide most of the local cost financing for projects, with some loans from
DIB and the commercial banks providing the remainder.
1/   Prior to January 1979 there were two exchange rates in this market:  the
"official rate" of LE 0.40 = $1 for a few specific transactions and the
parallel market rate of LE 0.70 = $1 for most transactions. These have
been substituted by the "unified rate" of exchange of LE 0.70 = $1. For
details of the foreign exchange regime, see DIB Staff Appraisal Report
#2669-EGT.



- 13 -
C. Cost of Capital in Egypt
2.10      Interest rates on deposits and loans in local currency for all fi-
nancial institutions are regulated by CBE. These are not applicable to MIDB
since it does not deal in local currency (para. 3.01). Interest rates on
local currency loans were last increased in March 1979 from a range of 9%-11%
to 10%-12%, while the maximum rate obtainable on savings (term) deposits was
increased from 6% to 8.5%. 1/ This brings the total increase in the maximum
interest rates on lending and deposits to 4% and 5% respectively over the
last 4 years or so. Inflation rates are difficult to measure in Egypt. The
wholesale price index shows increases of 10.3% each in 1976 and 1977 and 8.7%
in 1978. However, the official index is biased by controlled prices for
essential commodities, especially basic foodstuffs, and does not adequately
reflect price movements in uncontrolled markets where price levels tend to be
significantly higher. It is thus difficult to ascertain whether the current
interest rates on local currency loans are adequate in the light of current
inflation. Stabilization policies are, nevertheless, currently under review
by the Government, which is also considering further adjustments to the
interest rates.
2.11      Interest rates on foreign exchange loans are not regulated by CBE
and reflect the cost of those resources. Until last year, when MIDB finished
lending its equity resources the interest rate on MIDB long-term loans,
which so far have been made in dollars and are repayable in dollars, was 11%.
Currently, MIDB charges around 2% over LIBOR for long-term loans made out of
the proceeds of its short-term deposits (para. 3.35). MIDB also remunerates
these deposits at LIBOR rates. In the future, MIDB's fixed interest long-term
loans such as onlending of proposed Bank funds, would carry interest charges
commensurate with the cost of the foreign currencies involved after providing
MIDB with a spread of around 2%. The sub-borrowers will also assume the full
foreign exchange risk. The other main source in Egypt of institutional
long-term foreign exchange loans is DIB (essentially dollar loans) which is
currently charging 11% to 12% (except on SSI loans from special funds). In
the case of DIB the foreign exchange risk assumed by the sub-borrowers is
only between the Egyptian pound and the dollar. The compensatory deposits
of around 10% of foreign currency loans which DIB requires from borrowers
increase the effective cost of these loans to 12% to 13.5%. Foreign exchange
loans provided by other institutions (mostly short-term and some long-term)
generally carry floating interest rates of about 2% over LIBOR.
Cost of Proposed Bank Funds
2.12      MIDB's onlending interest rate on Bank funds would need to be lower
than the interest rate charged on MIDB's dollar loans (or on DIB's loans) to
compensate the sub-borrowers for the additional foreign exchange risk on Bank
funds (between the dollar and other currencies repayable to the Bank) since
1/   Also, as of 1977 interest earnings on bank deposits are tax exempt.



- 14 -
the entire foreign exchange risk on Bank funds will be borne by the sub-
borrowers. Accordingly, a minimum onlending rate of 11% is proposed. This
onlending rate, with the foreign exchange risk borne by sub-borrowers, is in
line with the cost of long-term foreign exchange resources in Egypt and in the
international capital markets. Although the applicable "international infla-
tion rate" (average rate applicable to the blend of currencies repayable to
the Bank) is difficult to ascertain, it is likely to be significantly below
10%. Therefore the onlending rate would also be positive in real terms.
2.13      The sub-borrowers will repay MIDB in foreign exchange which they are
able to earn themselves or purchase from the "free market" in Egypt. The free
market rate of exchange between the Egyptian pound and foreign currencies can
be expected to follow market supply and demand forces, which would normally
take into account the difference between the inflation rate in Egypt and the
"international inflation rate". Thus the real cost of Bank funds to the sub-
borrowers would be positive accounting also for domestic inflation.
III. THE MISR IRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
A. Establishment and Ownership
3.01      MIDB was incorporated on May 27, 1975 as an Egyptian joint stock
company with the authorization of the Government of Egypt under Presidential
Decree No. 498/75 and under the provisions of Law No. 43 concerning Arab and
foreign investment and free zones. It was established as a result of a trade
and economic cooperation protocol signed between Iran and Egypt in May 1974.
MIDB's initial authorized and paid-up share capital of $20 million was
shared equally between two Iranian and two Egyptian shareholders: Bank Melli
and Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran (IMDBI) from Iran, Bank of
Alexandria and Misr Insurance Company from Egypt. The Iranian shareholders
are state-owned banks and for all practical purposes represent the Iranian
Government's interest in MIDB. Both the Egyptian shareholders are public
sector institutions. MIDB, however, is established as a private institution
under Law 43. It is classified as an off-shore bank. By virtue of its owner-
ship structure--only 50% Egyptian--it is allowed to operate only in foreign
currency, which frees it of normal Central Bank controls over banks (on
liquidity requirements and foreign exchange dealings). A shareholders'
agreement incorporated in MIDB's Articles of Incorporation (Statutes) would
permit a change in the ownership structure to majority Egyptian ownership,
which would allow MIDB to operate also in local currency, whenever MIDB finds
it necessary to handle local currency transactions to enhance the fulfillment
of its objectives.
3.02      In July 1979, MIDB's share capital was increased by $20 million to
$40 million with the four shareholders subscribing equally in the increase,
thus maintaining the status quo. Payment of the initial 25% of the increase
has been made by all the shareholders, raising MIDB's paid-up share capital



- 15 -
to $25 million.  The remaining 75% of the capital increase ($15 million) will
be payable on call by the Board, as and when needed (see para. 3.35) prior to
September 1984.
B. Board of Directors and Management
3.03      In accordance with its Statutes, MIDB is managed by a Board of Direc-
tors composed of a minimum of eight (as at present) and a maximum of twelve
members appointed by the General Meeting of the shareholders. The shareholders
are represented on the Board in proportion to their participation in the capi-
tal, i.e. 50% Iranian and 50% Egyptian. The Board has broad powers to manage
the bank. It determines and implements the bank's organizational structure,
policies and modus operandi. The Board or its Management Committee (composed
of the Chairman, the Managing Director, the General Manager and a fourth Board
member) approve all long-term loans and equity investments. Board meetings
normally are held once every three months while meetings of the Management
Committee are held as and when needed. The Board appoints the Chairman, the
Vice-Chairman who is also the Managing Director, and the General Manager. For
maintaining parity between the Egyptian and the Iranian parties the Statutes
require that the party nominating the Chairman shall not nominate the Managing
Director.
3.04      Currently the Chairman (who is not an executive officer) is Iranian,
while the Managing Director (the chief executive) is Egyptian. The General
Manager is a seconded staff member from IMDBI. The senior managers of MIDB are
highly qualified and experienced persons. Although some of them lack specific
experience in development banking, the management as a whole is capable,
dynamic and well respected in the Egyptian financial and business community.
The Egyptian shareholders, being large financial institutions, enhance MIDB's
financial and business standing.
C. Organization
3.05      MIDB is located in Cairo and has no branch offices.  It is organized
along functional lines with eight departments, each headed by a Manager.
The development banking functions are performed by the Projects Department,
the Loans and Investment Supervision Department and the Research and Investment
Promotion Department. The latter department is yet to be fully staffed and
is temporarily combined with the Projects Department. The Managers of these
three operational departments are structured to report to an Assistant General
Manager. The common administrative services are performed by four Departments:
Financial and Accounts, Administrative, Legal and Computer Services. The
Managers of these and the Banking Department are structured to be supervised
by a second Assistant General Manager. Presently all the deparment managers
report to the Managing Director as the positions of the two Assistant General
Managers are vacant. Filling these positions is not considered urgent at



- 16 -
present, and these are expected to be filled in a year or so. The role of the
present (Iranian) General Manager is more that of an advisor and Board member
than a supervisor (line function).
D. Staff
3.06      MIDB has been,able to attract suitably qualified staff since it
is able to provide salaries and benefits reasonably competitive with those in
the private sector in Egypt. As of September 30, 1979 MIDB had a total staff
of 88 including 52 professionals. The Departments are adequately staffed, in
quality and number, to meet the present level of activity. MIDB plans to
increase its staff in line with the increase in its activities, particularly
in the three development banking departments. The present office space is a
serious constraint to the staff development plans of MIDB and it has therefore
partly financed the construction of a new building in which it expects to be
housed by 1982.
3.07      MIDB has no formal staff training programs of its own.  While on-
the-job training for its professional staff is considered important by its
management, individual staff members are sent out for training to other devel-
opment banks, private firms and universities. MIDB is hoping, through its
association with the World Bank, to develop additional sources of such train-
ing facilities at EDI and other DFCs. Training of management and staff in
development banking and project appraisal and supervision techniques would
be an important contribution by the Bank.
E. Functions and Policies
3.08      The objectives of MIDB, as per its Articles of Incorporation, are
"to identify, finance, implement and manage development projects in the agri-
cultural, industrial, mining, trade, transport, construction, services and
tourism sectors on economic considerations and commercial basis for the bene-
fit of the economies of the two countries" (Egypt and Iran). In practice
the projects financed are all in Egypt. 1/ In the pursuit of these objectives,
MIDB may: (a) mobilize funds from the two countries or from other external
markets through loans, guarantees and the issuance of bonds, or in the form of
sight and time deposits, in order to finance its investment activities; (b)
stimulate, create and expand the security markets; and (c) promote, assist
and participate in the establishment, expansion and modernization of enter-
prises engaged in the fields outlined above. Its financial assistance may
be in the form of loans and equity participations, underwriting of shares
and securities, guaranteeing loans from other investment sources and provid-
ing necessary commercial banking facilities. It may provide technical and
managerial consultant services, and undertake investment surveys and feasi-
bility studies for projects to be established by the bank.
1/   The proposed loan will finance projects only in Egypt.



- 17 -
3.09      The main objective of its operations so far has been the promotion
of new projects in Egypt's industrial sector (medium- and larger-scale indus-
tries) that bring into the country modern and appropriate technology. To this
end its projects often involve foreign partners (through equity participations
or technical assistance arrangements) who provide the technical know-how and
managerial expertise; such projects are formed as joint ventures under Law
43. MIDB's promotional activity until now has not included identification of
projects but has involved mainly the mobilization of resources from other
financial institutions, negotiations with appropriate foreign partners, and
assistance in obtaining government licenses and incentives for projects.
Identification of projects for promotion in line with economic priorities is
expected to develop as an activity of MIDB. The projects financed are estab-
lished mostly as joint stock companies, and in many of these, particularly
those promoted by MIDB, it takes an equity participation. MIDB's promotion of
joint stock companies and the planned rollover of its equity investments in
due course should contribute to the development of the capital market.
3.10      As a relatively new bank, MIDB has kept its options open for promot-
ing and financing financially and economically viable projects in all sectors
in accordance with its objectives without much regard to specific sector
priorities. The management of MIDB has been open to guidance from the Bank
in this area and MIDB's "Strategy Statement", drafted in conjunction with its
"Policy Statement", assigns priorities to the construction and capital goods
industries in line with the priorities under the proposed loan.
3.11      In consultation with the Bank, MIDB has adopted a formal "Policy
Statement" for directing its operations. Some of the policies enunciated
in the Policy Statement and outlined below were already being followed in
practice by MIDB prior to discussions with the Bank. The Policy and Strategy
Statements are satisfactory to the Bank, and future amendments to the Policy
Statement would be subject to the Bank's prior approval.
3.12      In accordance with its policy MIDB extends financing only to proj-
ects in the private sector that are financially and economically viable. The
projects should be consistent with country economic objectives and priorities
set by the Egyptian Government which is ensured since all projects have to be
approved by either GOFI or IFZA (para. 1.06). All MIDB financed projects have
so far been established under Law 43. Although projects established under Law
43 with majority public sector ownership are also considered (legally) in the
private sector, MIDB normally does not finance such projects. MIDB may extend
financing to public sector projects/enterprises, from special government funds
it may receive for such purposes, as a managing agent or as a lender against
adequate guarantees from the state owned banks.
3.13      MIDB's financial policy is satisfactory.  Its main features are as
follows:



- 18 -
(a) The maximum debt to equity ratio of MIDB shall be 4:1 with debt
defined to include all borrowings, deposits and guarantees
with an original maturity exceeding one year (i.e. long-term)
as well as the amount of short-term resources utilized for
long-term loans and investments (the use of short-term re-
sources for these purposes being permitted only exceptionally
see para. 3.35); 1/
(b) MIDB's total financial exposure in loans, guarantees and
equity investment in a single enterprise shall normally not
exceed 15% of MIDB's subscribed capital;
(c) MIDB's participation in the share capital of any enter-
prise shall normally not exceed 33% of the enterprise's
share capital, and MIDB's total equity participation shall
not exceed its own equity;
(d) MIDB can apply a fixed or floating rate of interest on long-
term loans varying according to the cost of its resources
(para. 2.11). In addition, a commitment charge of 1% per
annum on the undisbursed amount of the loan and a management
fee of 1.5% flat (on the loan granted or managed by MIDB) is
charged to the borrower.
F. Procedures
Appraisal
3.14      The appraisal functions are performed by the Projects Department
(for all loans and investments). On receipt of an application for project
financing and after preliminary discussions with the sponsor, a summary report
of the project is submitted to the "Project Committee", presided over by the
Managing Director, for a decision on whether to carry out a comprehensive
appraisal or reject the request. At the end of the appraisal cycle, which
on average requires about 3 man-months, projects are submitted for approval
to the Board or to the Management Committee (acting on behalf of the Board
in between Board meetings).
3.15      In some instances, particularly for large projects where reputable
local and/or foreign sponsors are involved, MIDB receives proper feasibility
studies of the projects. In other cases MIDB often has to arrange for expert
consultants to conduct technical feasibility studies prior to its appraisal,
1/   This ratio is considered conservative but would allow MIDB to borrow all
the resources it needs (given its equity base) at least for the next five
years.



- 19 -
the costs of which are recovered on the average from the 1.5% (flat) manage-
ment fee charged to the borrowers on the amount of loans extended or managed
by MIDB. MIDB's financial analysis of projects is thorough. The financial
projections are developed on computer, which calculates various financial
ratios as well as the project's financial rate of return. The technical
analysis, assisted by outside experts, is also satisfactory. Marketing
analysis needs to be strengthened; the weakness, however, is often due to
inadequate data sources in Egypt. Economic analysis of projects in the past
has not been done systematically and has been weak. Many of the projects
financed have been export oriented and their financial viability has been
established assuming export prices for outputs and, generally, market (unsub-
sidized) prices for inputs, thereby reasonably ensuring economic viability.
The staff are familiar with some of the techniques of economic analysis.
Calculation of the economic rate of return will be done more systematically in
MIDB's appraisals, henceforth, and will be mandatory for projects financed
under the proposed loan.
Supervision
3.16      Supervision of all projects and disbursement of funds therefor are
entrusted to the Loans and Investments Supervision Department (LISD), once
the financing agreement (specifying procedures for mortgage and insurance) is
put into effect. The LISD receives and approves applications for disburse-
ments under loans and equity investments and follows up on debt servicing. It
also assists many project sponsors in obtaining government licenses and, where
applicable, approvals for import duties exemptions for the projects.
3.17      Supervision work of MIDB has commenced only recently and supervision
procedures are therefore still evolving. For projects under construction,
LISD prepares monthly summary status reports, primarily on their disbursement
status, while detailed supervision reports on the implementation status of
works and capital investment are prepared quarterly, normally after a field
visit. Regular supervision procedures during a project's production phase
have been established but not yet tested since most of MIDB's projects are
still under construction. The LISD requires the clients to submit quarterly
or half-yearly financial statements with supplementary information on the
operational expenses, volume of production and sales. It also requires
annual financial statements audited by auditors satisfactory to MIDB. The
supervision of projects by MIDB is adequate.
Procurement and Disbursements
3.18      International shopping has been the procurement procedure generally
followed for MIDB financed projects so far, which is normal for DFCs. How-
ever, since MIDB also finances some very large projects, it has agreed with
the Bank to introduce international competitive bidding (ICB) procedure where
appropriate. General guidelines governing procurement, as enunciated in
MIDB's draft Strategy Statement, call for ICB procedure for large projects
or single procurement packages exceeding $5 million. For smaller procurement
packages the guidelines require procurement based on bids from several sup-
pliers through international shopping. For projects where technological



- 20 -
considerations may determine the foreign partner and, possibly, the supplier,
due attention will be given to cost effectiveness of the proposed technology.
Disbursement of MIDB financing in all cases will be subject to procurement
procedures being satisfactory to MIDB under its new guidelines.
3.19      MIDB's disbursement procedures are satisfactory and well monitored.
Loan disbursements are made mostly through letters of credit on receipt of
satisfactory evidence of expenditures. Disbursements under equity participa-
tions in companies are made in accordance with a company's articles of incor-
poration.
Management Information System
3.20      The small sizes of MIDB's staff and portfolio to date have allowed
MIDB's management to follow and monitor operations closely, without recourse
to a formal management information system. The Managing Director chairs daily
meetings of the Department Managers where they report on current operations
and issues. Written reports and statements currently prepared by the various
departments are: (a) summary reports of projects to the Project Committee
as well as appraisal reports to the Board; (b) monthly summary reports and
quarterly detailed reports on project supervision; (c) monthly financial
statements; and (d) daily computer printouts on customers' accounts and
short-term placement of funds. MIDB has agreed with the Bank to prepare on a
regular basis additional reports and statements normally useful to management
of DFCs, such as statements on resource position, operations (approvals,
commitments, disbursements) and loan arrears. It also plans to prepare and
update periodically projections of its operations and finances and analyze
annually or more frequently its actual operations and finances.
G. Operations
3.21      MIDB's operations consist mainly of long-term loans and equity
investments. Since it commenced operations in May 1975 and until December 31,
1979, MIDB approved a total amount of $42.2 million--$29.0 million in long-
term loans and $13.2 million in equity investments--to finance 22 projects all
in the private sector under Law 43. Commitments under the same projects
totalled $29.9 million ($19.7 million in loans and $10.2 million in equity),
while disbursements reached $21 million ($14.6 million in loans and $6.4 in
equity).
3.22      The analysis of the 20 projects approved by MIDB through September
30, 1979, and for which detailed information is available, shows that about
20% of MIDB's financing has gone for projects in tourism and about 15% to the
construction sector, mainly building materials industries, and the remainder
to textile, engineering, food and other industries. About half of the projects
financed are located in the Greater Cairo area, while the remainder are
distributed among other regions. MIDB's financing has averaged 11% of the
projects' total cost, and covers part of the projects' foreign exchange
requirement for imports of equipment and sometimes working capital. Of the 20



- 21 -
projects of a total cost of $290 million, 11 have foreign participation in
equity and/or technical know-how (against fees or royalties). Eleven projects
are estimated to export 20% or more of their respective output. Overall,
these 20 projects financed will add about 5,500 jobs. Their estimated finan-
cial rates of return range from 10% (hotel co.) to 40% (agro-industries), but
fluctuate mostly around 20%.
3.23      MIDB also extends short-term facilities to its clients, and the
financing agreements for its long-term loans and equity investments specify
that all foreign exchange transactions of the companies shall be undertaken
through MIDB. MIDB's short-term loan portfolio amounted to $6.2 million as
of December 31, 1979, which is small in comparison to its total short-term
resources (para. 3.26). The remainder of these resources are invested by
MIDB at a small spread (at floating interest rates) in the Euro-dollar market.
MIDB's operations also include guarantees of loans and credits from other
institutions to its clients; the guarantee portfolio is discussed in para.
3.28.
3.24      MIDB cannot lend in local currency, but this has not so far con-
strained its operations and is unlikely to prove a constraint in the fore-
seeable future. MIDB has been successful in mobilizing local resources for
its projects (clients), when required, primarily from its Egyptian share-
holders: Bank of Alexandria and Misr Insurance Company. Mobilization of
both local and foreign exchange resources for its projects, in addition
to its own financing, is an important objective of MIDB that it has been
carrying out successfully.
H. Resource Position
3.25      MIDB's resource position as of December 31, 1979 is summarized
below:



- 22 -
--------in $'000--------
Long-Term      Short-Term
Resources
Equity, and retained earnings                         30,505
Deposits and current accounts                            -           142,353
Total Resources                                       30,505         142,353
Applications
Loans outstanding                                     13,712           6,217
Equity investments                                     6,378              -
Less:  provisions for investment risks                (325)
Net fixed assets                                         538              -
Total Applications                                    20,303           6,217
Undisbursed Resources                                 10,202         136,136
Less:  Undisbursed Commitments                         8,931              -
Uncommitted Resources                                  1,271         136,136
3.26      The long-term resources, consisting of around $30.5 million in
equity (including the paid-up share capital of $25 million of which $1.25
million due from IMDBI in September 1979, was actually paid in February 1980),
were almost fully committed as of December 31, 1979. Additional long-term
resources are urgently needed (para. 3.36). Short-term resources include
deposits from banks and MIDB's customers amounting to $142.4 million of which
$131.4 million are in term deposits. These deposits are for terms ranging up
to 6 months and carry interest rates marginally below those in the Euro-dollar
market. No interest is paid by MIDB on call and current accounts.
I. Quality of Portfolio and Audit
3.27      MIDB's portfolio as of December 31, 1979 consisted of about $6.4
million in equity investment, $13.7 million in long-term loans and $6.2
million in short-term loans. Ten out of the 17 long-term loans in MIDB's
portfolio are still in their grace period. There are no arrears on payments
of interest or principal and this portfolio seems sound. No provisions had
been made through 1977 for possible losses on the portfolio, but as of 1978
MIDB started setting aside annual provisions of 1% of the long-term loans and
equity investments outstanding with a target to build up provisions to reach
5% of such portfolio. Additional provisions are made against short-term loans
and held at 1% of outstanding short-term loans. This provision policy is
satisfactory. MIDB's accounts are audited by an auditor satisfactory to the
Bank. (The same auditor is also DIB's current auditor.)



- 23 -
3.28      Outstanding guarantees and letters of credit extended by MIDB to
other institutions amounted to $74.1 million. Of this, long-term guarantees
amounted to $31.2 million, out of which $27.1 million for a single client,
Misr Iran Textile Co. (or MIRATEX), a joint venture between the Iranian and
Egyptian Governments; the amount includes a guarantee for an Iranian Govern-
ment loan of $23.8 million. MIDB assumed this excessive financial exposure
considering the risk of loss to it to be minimal given the Iranian Govern-
ment's interest in both MIRATEX and MIDB.  Nevertheless, MIDB is reducing its
overall financial exposure in the project (including a loan of $0.7 million
and the guarantees) to around $6 million, in line with its policy to restrict
its exposure in any single firm to 15% of its subscribed capital. MIDB has
already secured a counter guarantee from BOA for $10 million of the $23.8 mil-
lion Iranian loan to the project guaranteed by MIDB, and a counter guarantee
for another $12 million of the loan is being finalized which will achieve the
desired reduction.
J. Financial Performance and Position
3.29      MIDB's financial performance, since it started operations in mid-
1975, has been satisfactory. Its net income increased from about $1.8
million in 1976 1/ to $3.9 million in 1979. Net income as a percentage of
average net worth increased from 8.7% in 1976 to 15.5% in 1979. MIDB's income
is exempt from taxes until 1980. As a percentage of average total assets,
income before interest (and taxes) was 6.5 and 10.9, respectively, and admin-
istrative expenses were 1.6 and 1.1, respectively, in 1976 and 1979. The
latter ratios indicate increasingly efficient operations. Shareholders were
paid a dividend of 5% for 1976 and 6.5% for 1977 and 7.2% for 1978 (about
55%-60% payout ratio), and a dividend of around 8% is proposed for 1979 (about
45% payout ratio).
3.30      MIDB's spread on the placement of its short-term resources and
placement of its equity resources (unused for fixed assets, loans and invest-
ments) as well as its fees on banking services provided most of MIDB's income
through 1979. The interest income on the small long-term loan portfolio
accounted for less than 7% of MIDB's total income in 1979, while the equity
investments (in projects still under construction) have yet to yield any
dividends. Since long-term loans have so far been made out of MIDB's equity
resources, the spread realized on such lending has been equal to the interest
rate charged by MIDB on these loans.
3.31      Total assets as of December 31, 1979 amounted to $176.5 million
funded by equity and customers' deposits. Apart from the loan and equity
portfolio of about $20 million, its assets were mainly in the form of deposits
and securities (redeemable certificates of deposit) with local and foreign
banks. Contingent assets and liabilities, mostly in guarantees amounted to
1/   This actually covers the first eighteen months of operations through
December 31, 1976.



- 24 -
$74.7 million. The (long-term) debt/equity ratio (debt here defined to include
long-term guarantees) was less than 1:1 thus leaving ample room for borrowings
before MIDB reaches its 4:1 debt/equity limitation.
K. Projections of MIDB's Operations and Finances
3.32       MIDB's operational and financial projections for 1980-1984 are
based on a pipeline of projects and on the expectations for MIDB operations
in light of industrial investment prospects. Account is also taken of MIDB's
appraisal and supervision capacity and staff development plans. Detailed
assumptions for MIDB's operational and financial projections are available in
the Project File (see Annex 1). In line with its objectives and strategy MIDB
will concentrate on promotion and financing of medium- and larger-scale indus-
trial projects in the private sector. Sectorally, MIDB will give priority to
construction and capital goods industries and export oriented projects which
are in line with economic priorities and growth potential.
Table 1: LOAN AND EQUITY OPERATIONS: ACTUTAL AND PROJECTED
(US$ '000)
Actual                            Projected
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Long-Term Loans
Approvals       5,267   7,774  4,737  11,222  19,538  21,361  26,701  33,376  41,720
Commitments       -    6,517  5,123  8,060  20,707  22,614  25,099  31,373  39,217
Disbursements     -    1,637  5,908  7,078  11,384  17,037  22,638  26,105  32,314
Repayments        -      -       109    801  1,409  6,772  3,498  6,286  9,390
Equity Investments
Approvals       3,105  2,368  4,238   3,578  4,000  4,000  4,000  4,000  4,000
Commitments     3,105  2,368  4,238    578  7,000  4,000  4,000  4,000  4,000
Disbursements     491  2,094  2,394  1,398   7,304  6,300  4,000  4,000  4,000
Short-Term Loans
Outstanding at
end of Year      -    1,614  1,645   6,217   9,342  13,184  18,969  24,223  29,954



-   25
Table 2 - INCOME STATEMENT (US '000)
Actual                                         Projected
1976      1977       1978       1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984
Income
Interest and Other Charges on:
Long-Term Loans                        -          185        643      1,419     2,787      4,598      7,286    10,754    14,407
Short-Term Loans and Placements    2,866        4,259      8,475    15,017    21,762    22,473    23,488    24,538    26,865
Dividends on Equity Investments          -          -          -            6         27       900        845        903     1,603
Banking Fees and Other                   121        553        806        972     1,215      1,519      1,898      2,373     2,966
Other Income                                8       483        433      1,263        670        737       810        891        981
Gross Income                         2,995      5,380    10,357    18,677    26,461    30,227    34,327    39,459    46,822
Expenses
Financial Expenses:
Interest on Deposits and Borrowings  564        2,384      6,055    12,788    20,112    22,482    25,607    28,732    31,857
Other                                  -          -          183        -         -          -          -          -         -
Administrative Eypenses                  600        754      1,335        1,722   2085       2,212      2,875      3,459     4171
Total Expenses                       1,164      3,138      7,573    14,510    22,197    24,694    28,482    32,191    36,028
Operating Income                       1,831      2,242      2,967      4,167     4,264      5,533      5,845      7,268    10,794
Less: Provisions on Portfolio             -         -         (141)      (243)      (405)     (566)      (817)   (1,021)   (1,255)
Profit before Taxes                    1,772      2,073      2,643      3,924     3,859      4,967      5,028      6,247     9,539
Less: Income Taxes                       -          -          -          -          -       1,627      1,674      2,138     3,174
Net Profit after Taxes                 1,772      2,073      2,643      3,924     3.859      3,340      3,354     4.109      6,365
Table 3 - BALANCE SHEET (US '000)
Actual                                         Projected
1976      1977       1978       1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984
Assets
Cash, Banks and Correspondents        50,79.7    88,264   101,441   130,084   124,460   129,474   128,713   132,619   151,248
Portfolio:
Investments in Securities              -          -        7,695    15,738    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000
Short-Term Loans                       -        1,614      1,645     6,217      9,342    13,184    18,969    24,223    29,954
Long-Term Loans                        -        1,637      7,435    13,712    23,687    33,952    53,092    72,911    95,835
Equity Investments                     491      2,585      4,980     6,378    13,682    18,782    22,782    23,982    23,932
Less: Provisions for Losses               -         -         (141)      (384)      (789)   (1,355)   (2,172)   (3,193)   (4,448)
Net Fixed Assets                         440        497        518        538       633      5,563      5,453     5,291      5,063
Other Assets                             526      1,129      3,366      4,180     5,197    6s214        7,231     8,243   _
Total Assets                        52,254    95,726   126,939   176,463   206,212   235,814   264,068   294,081   340,849
Liabilities
Share Capital                         20,000    20,000    20,000    23,750    25,000    25,000    25,000    25,003    40,000
Reserves and Unappropriated
Earnings                               712      1,350      2,493     4,758      6415         606      8,964    11,073
Total Equity                        20,712    21,350    22,493    28,508    31,415    32,606    33,964    36,073    54,937
Short-Term Deposits                   30,074    71,443   100,840   142,353   160,509   167,736   171,982   178,651   199,255
Long-Term Borrowings                     -          -          -          -       6,843    24,618    45,371    63,702    68,09S
Adninistrative provisions                  60       223        448        977       963      1,056      1,173      1,320     1,504
Dividends and Other Current
Liabilities                         _1,40       2,710   _j_J58       4,625      6,482      9,798    11,578    14,335    17,105
Total liabilities                   52.254    9  T26   j26,939   176463   206212    35 814   2604 2O( ;8             !



- 26 -
Projected Operations
3.33      The project pipeline of MIDB as of September 30, 1979 consisted of
40 projects in different industries including construction and capital goods
which are assigned priority under the proposed loan. Of these, 30 projects
are estimated to have individual total costs of less than $25 million which
might require some $30 million in MIDB financing. The estimated project
costs of ten exceed $25 million each; these may require MIDB financing of
some $30-40 million.  As is normal, some of these projects may not be financed
by MIDB and additional projects would be added to the pipeline. The current
pipeline provides a satisfactory basis for the projected level of MIDB
operations, for which the constraint, if any, would be the availability of
long-term resources to MIDB.
3.34      Approvals of long-term loans and equity investments were slowed down
during most of 1978 and 1979 due to resource constraints but have picked up
since the increase in share capital in September 1979. MIDB's long-term loan
approvals are estimated to reach $19.5 million in 1980, $21.4 million in 1981,
and grow at an annual rate of 25% thereafter. Annual approvals of equity
investments are projected at $4 million through 1984. The volume of equity
investments is constrained by MIDB's policy that its equity portfolio not
exceed its own equity, as well as by the adverse effect of equity investments
on MIDB's profitability in the initial years, since such investments are not
expected to yield dividends for the first five years or so. The short-term
loan portfolio is projected to be maintained at about 25% of the long-term
loan and equity portfolio. A summary of the projected operations (approvals,
commitments, disbursement and repayments) is provided in Table 1. In addition
to its own financing, MIDB expects to continue to mobilize resources for its
projects from other financial institutions.
Resource Requirements and Mobilization
3.35      As of December 31, 1979 MIDB had fully committed all its long-term
resources (para. 3.25). MIDB has been authorized by its Board (in order not
to curtail its lending operations) to use its short-term resources for long-
term investments (loans and equity participations), until additional long-term
resources, including the proposed loan, can be mobilized. MIDB's policy
statement states that such use of short-term resources would be permissible
only against a commitment from the shareholders to provide an equivalent
amount of stand-by long-term resources. Accordingly, the ceiling for such
operations is currently $15 million, which is the amount of MIDB's unpaid
share capital payable on call by MIDB's Board (para. 3.02). Even though this
additional capital can be paid in by September 1984 according to Egyptian
laws, MIDB has agreed that the capital increase would be paid in earlier
should MIDB encounter liquidity problems. To this end, MIDB shall adopt, by
December 31, 1980, procedures whereby MIDB's shareholders shall be required to
pay in such portion of MIDB's authorized share capital as shall be required
to ensure that the amount of short-term resources used for long-term loans and
investments does not exceed, at any time for more than a one month period, 50%
of short-term deposits with MIDB.



- 27 -
3.36      Through mid-1982, the estimated period for commitments under the
proposed loan, MIDB needs additional long-term resources of about $60 million
on a commitment basis (net of internal cash generation). The proposed Bank
loan of $30 million would cover 50% of this requirement, $15 million will be
covered by MIDB's short-term resources backed up by an equivalent amount of
share capital increase on call, leaving a gap of $15 million. MIDB has a
preliminary commitment from the Arab African Bank to underwrite a $10 million
issue of Certificate of Deposits of 3-5 year maturity at an interest rate to
MIDB of 1/4% p.a. over six-month LIBOR. In addition, MIDB can reasonably
expect to participate as an intermediary in onlending a proposed $30 million
USAID "Private Investment Encouragement Fund" for financing medium size indus-
tries. MIDB will also explore other long-term sources of finance. The Bank
feels that MIDB can mobilize the additional resources it needs through mid-
1982 and, with the expected continued Government support, also for the longer-
term.
Projected Financial Performance and Position
3.37      Projections of MIDB's operations show a satisfactory profitability
over the period 1980-1984. Net profit before taxes would increase from an
estimated $3.9 million in 1980 to $9.5 million in 1984. However, a dip will
show in the net profit in 1981 and 1982 when MIDB's five-year tax exemption
regime will end, while MIDB's equity participations would not have fully
started yielding dividends. Net income as percentage of average net worth
would decrease from 12.6 in 1980 to 10 in 1982, to increase to 14 in 1984.
Income before interest and taxes as percentage of average total assets is
expected to be around 12.5 between 1980 and 1984 while administrative expenses
as percentage of average total assests would be around 1.1. Dividends to
shareholders are projected to be around 8% during the period.
3.38      MIDB's projections assume an average spread of 2.0% on long-term
loans and short-term loans and 0.5% on other short-term placements over the
cost of borrowings and short-term deposits (para. 2.11) and this is reasonable.
The contribution of short-term (commercial banking) operations to MIDB's gross
income is expected to remain substantial over the period projected but it
would decrease as a percentage of total gross income from an estimated 90% in
1980 to 65% in 1984.
3.39      Over the 1980-1984 period, MIDB's total assets are expected to
increase from $206 million to $341 million. The equity portfolio is expected
to increase from $13.7 million to $24 million and the long-term loan portfolio
from $23.7 million to $95.8 million, while short-term loans outstanding are
expected to increase from $9.3 million to $29.9 million over the same period.
Provisions would build up by 1983 to a satisfactory level of 4% of the long-
term loan and equity portfolio and 1% of the short-term loan portfolio. The
debt/equity ratio (assuming that only 25% of the increase in the subscribed
share capital from $20 million to $40 million is paid in) would reach 2.6:1 in
1983 and around 2:1 after full payment of the share capital increase due in
1984 well below the maximum limit of 4:1 allowed by MIDB's policy and accept-
able to the Bank. The above projections show a satisfactory development of
MIDB's financial position.



- 28 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Background
4.01      Bank lending through DFCs forms an important part of the Bank's
strategy of providing assistance to the industrial sector (para. 1.25). The
initial request for a Bank loan to MIDB was conveyed to the Bank by the
Government in September 1977. Bank missions visited Egypt in January, March
and July, 1978 for preparation and appraisal of the project and subsequently
for updating purposes. Processing of the proje:. was delayed primarily due
to uncertainty about Iranian participation in the capital and future develop-
ment of MIDB (para. 3.02). The Iranian shareholders have reaffirmed to their
Egyptian partners their continued interest in MIDB and their intention to
pursue their interests in a business-like manner free of political incumber-
ances.
B. Objectives
4.02      The objectives of the proposed Bank loan to MIDB would be to con-
tinue and expand on the support, begun with DIB, to build up an adequate
institutional capacity in Egypt for the promotion, financing and other assis-
tance to the private industrial sector in Egypt. The project would support
MIDB in the fulfillment of its role of promoting and financing medium and
larger industries in the private sector in Egypt with special emphasis on
providing assistance to the construction and capital goods manufacturing
industries, as well as export oriented industries. (The priorities for these
industries have been established in paras. 1.11-1.23.) Through its associa-
tion with MIDB, the Bank would also contribute to MIDB's institution building
and training efforts. Although MIDB is a well run organization its management
is keen on obtaining the Bank's guidance and assistance in strengthening the
institution and to establish a good reputation in the international financial
markets for future resource mobilization. Bank missions have already made a
substantial contribution in helping MIDB develop its policies, operational and
lending strategies and plans. Assistance in these and other institutional
aspects is expected to continue to be provided by the Bank through supervision
missions. The Bank will also assist MIDB in arranging suitable training for
its staff at EDI and other institutions.
C. Scope
4.03      The proposed loan will finance industrial projects--defined to
include projects in mining, manufacturing, processing and related service
activities, as well as projects which add to capacity or improve the quality
of the construction contracting industry l/--in Egypt. The financing in the
1/   This definition includes agro-industries but excludes tourism industries.



- 29 -
form of MIDB loans and/or equity participations will be confined to projects
in the private sector in Egypt which includes also companies with public
sector shareholding established under Law 43/1974. As a matter of policy,
however, MIDB does not finance companies in which public sector shareholding
is in the majority. Projects in all of the above categories will have to show
economic rates of return in excess of 12%. Only the foreign exchange expendi-
tures of the projects will be financed with the loan proceeds made available
by MIDB either in the form of sub-loans or equity investments.
D. Loan Amount and Allocation
4.04       A Bank loan of $30 million is proposed which would cover about 50%
of MIDB's resource requirements through mid-1982 (para. 3.36), the period of
commitment of the proposed loan. 1/ The allocation of the loan is proposed
as follows:
(a)  a minimum of 25% of the loan amount for building materials
and construction contracting industries;
(b)  a minimum of 25% for capital goods manufacturing industries;
(c)  a minimum of 25% for industries that are estimated to export at
least 20% of the project's output in value, excluding projects
qualifying under (a) or (b) above; and
(d) the remaining for other economically viable industrial projects.
This allocation is in line with the loan objective of placing special emphasis
on financing projects that are export oriented or in construction and capital
goods manufacturing industries. The allocation also is practical from the
point of view of implementation by MIDB given its project pipeline and the
potential for MIDB promotion and financing of financially and economically
viable projects in each of these categories.
4.05       The export potential of export-oriented projects will have to be
demonstrated in MIDB's appraisal reports on the basis of past export perform-
ance, export orders and/or an appropriate market study, as well as steps taken
by the project sponsors to develop effective marketing channels. MIDB's
appraisal would also give due regard to the domestic value added and the net
foreign exchange earnings of such projects. The export target for these proj-
ects would be specified in MIDB's sub-loan agreements with the sub-borrowers
and the export performance would be closely monitored by MIDB to ensure that
the sub-borrowers are making their best effort to export. MIDB's reporting
requirements to the Bank will include a semi-annual report on the performance
of these projects.
1/   Assuming the Bank loan will become effective around mid-1980.



- 30 -
E. Main Features
4.06      Lending Arrangement and Onlending Terms.  Because legal restrictions
preclude a Government guarantee to a private institution such as MIDB, the
loan will be made to the Government which will onlend the funds to MIDB at
an interest rate exceeding that charged by the Bank by 0.5%, under a subsidiary
loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank. MIDB's onlending interest rate will
be not less than 11% providing it with a minimum 2-1/4% spread, which is
satisfactory. The subborrowers will assume the foreign exchange risk and
commitment charge for Bank funds. MIDB will review with the Bank at least
annually its interest rate policy in light of prevailing market conditions
with a view to determining the most appropriate interest rates to be applied
by MIDB to its lending operations.
4.07      Size of Sub-Projects:  The size of sub-projects for Bank financing
would generally range between $5 million and $25 million in total cost which
is the normal target group for MIDB financing. However, projects of smaller
size and, exceptionally, of larger size may also be financed. Bank financing
would normally be confined to individual projects not exceeding $25 million
in total cost unless MIDB's promotional role in putting together a project of
a larger size can clearly be demonstrated (when financing large projects MIDB
often plays an instrumental role in mobilizing resources from other financial
institutions). In these exceptional cases--which are not expected to number
more than two or three--the Bank would review the project in greater depth
than is normal for DFC sub-projects and would reserve the right to partici-
pate in the appraisal process when and to the extent deemed appropriate by
the Bank (including review of feasibility studies, field appraisal missions,
etc.). MIDB, therefore, would advise the Bank of such projects at an early
stage of project appraisal.
4.08      Maximum Financing for a Sub-project:  To ensure that the Bank loan
is used to finance a fair number of sub-projects, and not just a few large
sub-projects, the amount of the loan proceeds approved for a sub-project
(through a sub-loan and/or equity investment) would normally be limited to a
maximum of $3 million.
4.09      Free Limit:  The Bank's normal review of a reasonable number of
sub-projects (outside of the special procedure for large sub-projects men-
tioned above) can assist in strengthening the appraisal capability of MIDB,
particularly in economic analysis (para. 3.15). However, a review by the
Bank is not considered essential for all of the sub-projects to be financed
since the quality of MIDB's project appraisal is generally good. The amount
of MIDB financing of projects of a given size can vary substantially from case
to case. Therefore, it is appropriate to set the free limit on both the
sub-project size and the subloan size. Keeping in mind the above and the size
of projects in MIDB's project pipeline, it has been set that individual
sub-projects whose total cost do not exceed $8.0 million and for which the
sub-loan size does not exceed $1.0 million would qualify as free limit sub-
projects. However, since MIDB is a first time borrower, it has been agreed



- 31 -
that the first two sub-projects, irrespective of their size, would be sub-
mitted for the Bank's review and approval under the procedure normal for
projects above the free limit.
4.10      Based on MIDB's project pipeline and its estimated financing
of individual projects as well as on the free limit and the maximum Bank
financing set above, it is estimated that the Bank loan will finance about
20-25 sub-projects including some 10-12 (accounting for 60% or more of the
loan) above the free limit.
4.11      Repayment Period of Sub-Loans:  Sub-loans may be made for a maximum
period of 15 years including grace periods as deemed appropriate for the
sub-projects by MIDB. (In practice the repayment term of MIDB's loans rarely
exceeds 10 years including about 2 years grace.) Loan proceeds approved for
MIDB's equity investments (estimated to total less than 20% of the loan) may
be repaid by MIDB over 15 years including up to 5 years of grace since such
investments generally do not yield dividends to MIDB in the first five years;
also, it may be noted that in such cases the repayment obligation including
the foreign exchange risk rests with MIDB.
4.12      Amortization of the Bank Loan:  This would be a composite of the
amortization of the individual sub-loans and investments, debt service of the
loan by the Government coinciding with that by MIDB to the Government. With
the given commitment period for sub-projects of about 2 years after signature
of the proposed loan, the final maturity of the loan will thus fall within
about 17 years.
4.13      Procurement and Disbursement:  For bank financed sub-projects, indi-
vidual procurement packages exceeding $5 million would require ICB consistent
with the Bank's guidelines, otherwise procurement would be through interna-
tional shopping with comparison of offers from more than one supplier. This
is in accordance with MIDB's procurement policy (para. 3.18). MIDB will
submit for the Bank's prior review and comment the tender documents and
evaluation of bids for contracts requiring ICB to ensure that ICB procedures
are followed in a satisfactory manner. Disbursements under the proposed loan
will be made against standard documentation and are estimated as follows:
------------$ Million-----------
Bank FY      80    81    82    83    84    85
Annual                         -   2.3   11.0  12.2   4.0   0.5
Cumulative                     -   2.3   13.3  25.5  29.5  30.0
4.14      Other Features:  The final date for submission of sub-projects
is set to be December 31, 1982 and the closing date June 30, 1985. Other
terms and conditions of the loan would follow those applicable to normal
Bank loans to DFC.



- 32 -
F. Project/Loan Benefits and Risks
4.15      The proposed loan is a continuation of the efforts to develop ade-
quate institutional capacity in Egypt to promote and finance the development
of the private industrial sector which has received renewed Government support
in recent years after almost two decades of neglect. The Bank's association
with MIDB through the project will contribute to the strengthening of MIDB as
an institution for assisting industrial development. With the Bank's financial
support, MIDB will play an important role in promoting export based industries
particularly joint ventures with foreign partners established under Law 43.
The loan will also focus on the development of capital goods industries which
are relatively underdeveloped in Egypt. Sub-projects in these industries,
which are congruent to many of Egypt's comparative advantages, would assist in
reorienting the engineering sector to increase the share of value added in
output, diversify the domestic product mix, promote manufacture of inter-
mediate components in the small scale sector through subcontracting arrange-
ments and introduce intermediate technology appropriate to the scale of
production and factor costs. The project will also assist in modernizing
and increasing the capacity of the construction contracting industry (a
critical bottleneck to economic development in Egypt) through MIDB promotion
and financing of subprojects, particularly joint ventures with foreign
partners that can introduce appropriate technologies and efficient management
practices, in this sector.
4.16      Specific sub-projects to be financed under the Bank loan are not
yet known (as is typical of DFC projects) and, therefore, it is not possible
to forecast the estimated financial and economic rates of return (FRR and ERR)
of the project. Some of the projects in MIDB's current pipeline of projects
may be submitted for Bank financing but information on these is insufficient
to estimate their FRR and ERR. However, all sub-projects would have to show a
minimum ERR of 12%, and it is expected that the FRR would generally be higher.
4.17      Difficult political relations between Egypt and Iran pose a possible
problem for the effective long-term development of MIDB given its 50:50
Iranian: Egyptian ownership, although the Iranian shareholders and the Egyptian
Government have stated their support for MIDB. Continued support of the
Egyptian Government, particularly for future resource mobilization by MIDB,
is the more critical and was reaffirmed during negotiations.
4.18      The project risks relate also to the possibility that MIDB may not
be able to utilize fully the proposed loan funds allocated for capital goods
and export oriented projects. The domestic capital goods industry has been
slow to develop in Egypt and is not yet well established. Domestic producers
of capital goods will have to compete with established foreign imports (brand
names) for the domestic market. Also, export prospects for Egyptian industry
are not very favorable in the near term (paras. 1.12-1.13). Diligent promotion
and financing of projects in these areas, however, should enable MIDB to meet
the target allocation of the proposed loan.



- 33 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government
on the terms for onlending the proposed loan by the Government to MIDB, under
a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.06), and these
terms are incorporated in the draft Loan Agreement. Government support to
MIDB in mobilizing long-term resources (para. 3.36) was also reconfirmed
during negotiat Lolis.
5.02      During negotiations agreement was reached with MIDB on the following
items which are incorporated in the draft Project Agreement between the Bank
and MIDB:
(a) allocation of the proposed loan and the criterion for export-
oriented sub-projects (para. 4.04);
(b)  size of sub-projects (para. 4.07);
(c)  maximum financing for a sub-project (para. 4.08);
(d)  free limit (para. 4.09);
(e)  onlending terms from MIDB to sub-borrowers (paras. 4.06 and
4.11);
(f)  procurement under the loan (para. 4.13);
(g)  other loan features (para. 4.14);
(h)  MIDB Policy and Strategy Statements--any changes in the
former would be subject to prior approval by the Bank (para.
3.11); and
(i)  payment of 75% of MIDB's capital increase (para. 3.35).
5.03      Based on the above agreements reached during negotiations and
incorporated in the draft legal documents, a Bank loan of $30 million is
recommended to be made to the Government for onlending to MIDB.



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN
THE PROJECT FILE
A.1 Arab Republic of Egypt: Survey of Small Scale Industry (grey cover) -
(1818-EGT) December 2, 1977.
A.2 Six sub-sector studies:
Textile Industry, by Werner International Consultants (1976).
Food Industry (Study of 5 Sub-Sectors) by Arthur D. Little, Inc. (1977).
Pulp, Paper and Board Industry, by Stadler Hurter (1977).
Building Material and Ceramics, by Booz, Allen and Hamilton (1977).
Metallurgical Industry, by Atkins Planning (1978).
Engineering Industries, by P.E. International (1978).
A.3 Ministry of Planning, The Five Year Plan 1978-1982 (in 7 vols.) (1977).
A.4 Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction and UNDP Suez Canal Regional
Plan, by Sores, Inc. (in 8 vols.) (1978).
A.5 Legal Guide to Investment in Egypt, General Authority for Investment and
Free Zones (1977).
B.1  MIDB:  Organization chart as of September 30, 1979
B.2  MIDB:  Policy and Strategy Statements
B.3  MIDB:  Board composition
B.4  MIDB:  Assumptions governing MIDB's Operational and Financial Projections
(1980-1984)
B.5  MIDB:  Actual and Projected Operations and Financial Statements
(1976-1984):
Loans and Equity Operations
Income Statements
Projected Sources and Applications of Funds
Balance Sheets
B.6 MIDB: Projected Performance Indicators



