Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Swiss Grant Agreement
(Rehabilitation Credit Project)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the Swiss Cooperation Office
for Eastern Europe
Dated June 10, 1994
SWISS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1994, between the KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Recipient) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator 
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the SWISS COOPERATION OFFICE FOR 
EASTERN EUROPE (SWITZERLAND).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to an agreement dated December 13, 1993 between Switzerland 
and the Association, Switzerland has requested the Association, and the Association 
has agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by Switzerland for the 
financing of activities related to the privatization in the agricultural sector to be 
carried out under the Rehabilitation Credit extended by the Association to the 
Recipient under a Development Credit Agreement, dated May 20, 1993; and
WHEREAS (B) Switzerland has agreed to make available to the Recipient a 
non-reimbursable contribution (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical 
Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
     (ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (11), 
(12) and (13);
    (iii)
Section 3.01;
     (iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
     (vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a) (i), (b), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
    (vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
   (viii)
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
     (ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.02 and 10.03; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (e) thereof means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of 
the Grant pursuant to the letter agreement between Switzerland and 
the Association, and the Association referred to in Recital (A) of 
this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term 
"Association" shall also include the International Development 
Association acting in its own capacity;
     (ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
    (iii)
the term "Credit Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
     (iv)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited;
     (vi)
the term "Project", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
    (vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Swiss 
Francs; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed 
out of the Grant have been paid or are payable in another 
currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of the 
Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of such 
withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms "Swiss 
Franc" and "SFR" mean the currency of Switzerland.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount of nine hundred thousand Swiss Francs (SFR 900,000).
Section 2.02. The Grant is made to finance 100% of total expenditures for 
consultants' services and related equipment, in respect of the reasonable cost of 
carrying out the Project to be financed out of the Grants provided, however, that no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
     (ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Vice Chairman of the State Commission for Foreign Investment 
and Economic Assistance of the Recipient is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  4
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Vice Chairman of State Commission for Foreign
  Investments and Economic Assistance
96 Kievskaya Street
Bishkek
Kyrgyzstan 720300
Telex:
245169 ASKAR SU
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KYRGYZSTAN
By /s/ A. Matubraimov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ W. Thalwitz
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance
1.
A study on agricultural policies.
2.
Irrigation rehabilitation and water charges studies.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants shall be 
Page  5
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
