Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2491 KG
                   Development Credit Agreement
                      (Rehabilitation Credit)
                              between
                      REPUBLIC OF KYRGYZSTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 20, 1993
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2491 KG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF KYRGYZSTAN
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
April 19, 1993 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve economic stabilization
and systemic reforms of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called
the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in
the financing of urgently needed imports and services required
during such execution; and
      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
      Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
      and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
      such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
      the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to
      the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
      Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
      under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
      of the purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
a letter agreement dated October 13, 1992 between the Borrower and
the Bank; and
      (d)   "Project Implementation Unit" means the unit established
in the Borrower's State Commission for Foreign Investments and
Economic Assistance for the purpose of coordinating all activities
under the Credit.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-three million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 43,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Page  3
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to the Bank the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing October 15, 2003 and ending April 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
Page  4
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. In order to strengthen the Borrower's capability
to carry out the Program, the Borrower shall implement the activi-
ties set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)  ensure that the agreement referred to in paragraph 2 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement is adhered to by the Ministry of
Economy and Finance and the National Bank of Kyrgyzstan; and
      (b)  cause the National Bank of Kyrgyzstan to submit through
the Project Implementation Unit to the Association monthly reports
on the total volume of the inter-bank foreign exchange auctions and
its interventions financed out of the funds reimbursed by the
Association to the Borrower.
      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
Page  5
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                           ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Vice Chairman of the State Commission for
Foreign Investments and Economic Assistance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Vice Chairman of State Commission for Foreign
              Investments and Economic Assistance
            96 Kievskaya Street
            Bishkek
            Kyrgyzstan 720300
                                           Telex:
                                            245169 ASKAR SU
      For the Association:
Page  6
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF KYRGYZSTAN
                  By /s/ Herman S. Kuznetsov
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds in accordance with the allocation of
the Credit to the following Categories.
                           Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Pre-identified           23,800,000        100%
     imports, including
     related procure-
     ment agents'
     services
(2)  Other imports            14,400,000        100%
(3)  Consultants'              4,700,000        100%
     services,
     training and
     related equip-
     ment
(4)  Refunding of                400,000        Amount due
     Project Pre-                               pursuant to
     paration                                   Section 2.02 (c)
Page  7
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
                              __________
     TOTAL                    43,300,000
                              ==========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)   expenditures for goods under Category (1), unless the
goods are included in a list of eligible imports as agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association;
     (b)   expenditures for goods under Category (2), unless the
Borrower has submitted to the Association the agreement between the
Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance and the National Bank of
Kyrgyzstan acceptable to the Association pursuant to which a certain
amount of the funds reimbursed to the Borrower out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated to Category (2) shall be used for
interventions in the inter-bank foreign exchange auction;
     (c)    expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
Group       Sub-group                   Description of Items
112              -                      Alcoholic beverages
121              -                      Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
122              -                      Tobacco, manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
525              -                      Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
667             -                       Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious stones, unworked
                                        or worked
718         718.7                       Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                        thereof, fuel elements
                                        (cartridges), non-
                                        irradiated for nuclear
                                        reactors
Group      Sub-group                    Description of Items
728.43          -                       Tobacco processing
                                        machinery
897         897.3                       Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum group metals
                                        (except watches and watch
                                        cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths' wares
                                        (including set gems)
971            -                        Gold, non-monetary (ex-
                                        cluding gold ores and
                                        concentrates)
      (d)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (e)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 7,600,000 may be made on account of
Page  8
payments made for such expenditures before such date but after
February 1, 1993;
      (f)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $50,000 equivalent with respect to Category (1) and
$10,000 equivalent, but exceeding $500,000 equivalent, with respect
to Category (2);
      (g)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
      (h)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$300,000 may be permitted by the Association upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify.
                           SCHEDULE 2
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:
            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Forum, Business Edition; or
           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international
                  circulation; or
          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."
      (b)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
      (c)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
Page  9
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $300,000 shall be awarded:
      (a)   on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association; or
      (b)   in case of a limited number of suppliers, through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation
and comparison of bids invited from qualified suppliers acceptable
to the Association and in accordance with the procedures set forth
in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof), except that direct contracting
procedures acceptable to the Association may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly
traded commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
4.    With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, (ii) each contract awarded under
direct contracting procedures, and (iii) the first two contracts for
the procurement of goods under each sub-sector included in the pre-
identified list of eligible imports, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds
of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
5.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
6.    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraphs 4 and 5, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the activities
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall employ
consultants and procurement agents whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 3
                     Activities Referred to in
                  Section 3.03 of this Agreement
1.    Enterprise Reform, Privatization and Private Sector
      Development
      (a)   Detailed implementation planning, legislation, capacity
Page  10
building and actual implementation of privatization, enterprise
reform and competition policy measures.
      (b)   Study on privatization in agriculture.
      (c)   Review and drafting of mining legislation.
      (d)   Promotion of reform activities.
2.    Legal Reform Coordination
      Establishment and operation of a central legal reform unit.
3.    Financial Sector
      (a)   Development of audit approach for commercial banks and
pilot audits.
      (b)   Assistance and training for commercial banks.
4.    Review of Social Safety Issues
      Study on reforms of the health services and pharmaceutical
sector.
5.    Agriculture
      (a)   Study on agricultural policies.
      (b)   Irrigation rehabilitation and water charges studies.
6.    Project Implementation and Procurement
      (a)   Overall support of the Project Implementation Unit.
      (b)   Management and coordination of technical assistance
activities.
      (c)   Strengthening the procurement capabilities of the
Project Implementation Unit.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(3) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required during
the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  11
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Program, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
Page  12
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
